ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19855	The Republic of Serbia (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 1 July 2013 (The session began at 12.15 p.m. Vesna Kovac, vice president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 161 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 118 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Branko Ružić, Ljubisa Stojmirović, Zlata Djeric, Meko Omerović, Gordana Komic, Nenad Konstantinović, Konstantin Samofalov, Milica Radovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly has convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda laws set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, has called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Economy and Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance and Business. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session in 2013, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2013, the following Dn e v n i r e d 1 was determined. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 with: - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and amendments to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2013, - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2013, - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments to the National Employment Service Decision for 2013; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law on the commitment of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" to companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and the conversion of these obligations into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which the government has filed; 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Obligation of Health Institutions to High Drugs on the basis of the acquisition of medicinal products and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law on accounting, submitted by the Government; 7. A proposal for a law on audit, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a factoring law submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law confirming Annex number 1. Agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a loan for the realisation of the "Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Assistance Programme through the domestic banking sector and support for local development through public utility companies" submitted by the government. National MP Ivan Bauer, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 with the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2013, the Proposal for a Decision on the Grant of Understanding on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Fund of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, the Proposal for a Decision on the granting of Understanding on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Fund for the Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2013 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Law on the Making of Understanding on Amendments and Supplements of the National Employment Service for 2013; - Proposal for a Law on Changes of the Social Insurance of Military Insurance for the Year 2013 and Supplements of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Parliaments on the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Fundamentals of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Fundamental of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Law of the Court of the Law of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court. Agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a Credit for the Implementation of the Programme "Credit for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Assistance through the Domestic Banking Sector and Support for Local Development through Public Municipal Enterprises" and the 3rd Joint Principle and Single Search on: - Draft Accounting Law; - Proposal for a Law on Audition; - Proposal for a Factoring Law. Does the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 21, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 14, of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19857	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for article 97. A Rules of Procedure, which found that it was time for debate for parliamentary groups to be held for five hours. According to the same article, I suggest that this time extends to 10 hours, because I think five hours is not enough to discuss everything that's on the agenda today. It is a united debate, and it is about budget rebalancing, one of the most important acts after the budget, and it is about the fact that this government has brought the state into a stalemate situation and that it is not enough five hours to make all the remarks and to give all the criticisms that the minister could respond to. On the other hand, as far as I can tell, there's no Prime Minister here today, no First Deputy Prime Minister. On behalf of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are asking that both the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister be in this room today, because this is not the budget of Mladjan Dinkic, but of the entire government, the coalition of the Serbian Progressive Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the United Regions of Serbia. Please make this proposal known to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19858	Thank you. We'll make a statement, I'll put it to a vote. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws and decisions referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. A representative of the DS parliamentary group, Dr Janko Veselinovic, has proposed a longer debate, so I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 48, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 133, of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, the schedule for time per parliamentary group has been obtained in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform review on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, with proposals for decisions to give consent to the decisions on amendments and amendments to the financial plans for 2013: 1) of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, 2) of the Republic Fund for Health Insurance, 3) of the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance, 4) of the National Employment Service, - Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pension and Disabilities. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19859	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before you, as I announced here in the National Assembly a month ago, a draft budget rebalance for this year. As you know, economic policy in Serbia is being driven into a very complex situation, with the view and movement of the euro area, given all inherited problems and given the uncertainty that prevails not only here in Serbia, now not only in the area, but in the entire world economy. As a result, at the end of May in the Government, we started to discuss the need to adopt a comprehensive package of measures that would stabilise the state budget, but that would also enable the implementation of the necessary structural reforms in the economy, because the stabilisation of the state budget itself is not possible unless investments and the impossible growth of production on a permanent basis are encouraged at the same time. Two weeks ago in the government, after talks with representatives of the economy, trade unions, professional public and international financial organisations, we brought a comprehensive package of economic reforms, of which the stabilisation of the state budget, i.e. the rebalancing as one part of it, is only part of that comprehensive package. The stabilisation of the state budget and the measures aimed at reducing expenditure in the public sector was never enough in any country to reverse the economic situation. We have experience three years ago, when the global economic crisis began, when the previous government in 2009 brought a package of measures, which even meant freezing wages and pensions. It has been shown that, given that it was not simultaneously followed by other structural reforms in the public sector, it was a short breath and that, behold, a few years later, our government is again facing all these problems, whose resolution has been delayed. We have made a firm decision that there is no longer any delay in solving the accumulated problems of which some are longer than a decade, but that we will go very decisively and without any compromises in solving them. The overall economic package, agreed by the government, has two key pieces. The first measures are to stabilise the state budget, and the reasons for this are measures to reduce public expenditure, because we have all come to the conclusion that there is no speech on any increase in income tax. The only thing we want to do and we can do is raise the bill. Otherwise, tax rates will not change now or in the next period, because that would be counterproductive. The cost reduction is one part of that package. Better revenue collection is important next segment. Finally, the systemic savings measures in the public sector contained in the draft amending the Budgetary System Act are the third part of this segment. The next level of reforms we want to implement are structural reforms, ending the process of restructuring former social enterprises. Once and for all, we end it by mid next year, which is what we predicted by law, and now we've worked out a very detailed action plan that should lead to that conclusion. Then, the general reform in public enterprises, primarily the withdrawal of the state from the management of certain public enterprises, in some cases the withdrawal from ownership in public enterprises, where it has proved that the state has not managed well in previous years. There are also measures of systemic character to improve the investment climate. First of all, to reduce bureaucracy in the issue of building permits, to amend the Law on Planning and Construction, which has placed us among the worst countries currently in the world under the procedures for issuing building permits and all transactions related to the transport of land. It is also necessary to change the Labour Act to make it more flexible, to allow more people to be employed, but, on the other hand, to allow sanctioning those who do not want to work and who do not work, and above all in the state institutions and the public sector. So it's one whole segment of reform and the government is absolutely aware that all of these reforms need to be implemented simultaneously, or simultaneously, to give effect. We are also aware that it is not enough that we in the Government have agreed this package of measures by consensus. That is why we have also talked to both trade unions and representatives of the economy and the expert public about the need to create as broad a consensus as possible in the whole of society for these reforms. Today I am ready to talk openly about all this, not only with MPs who will support this programme, but also with opposition MPs, because this is really about Serbia. It is not one, the other, the third or the tenth governments, but it is about how together we can bring and implement measures that will help citizens, regardless of which governments will lead this country tomorrow. I have to say, although we are all doing everything in the government every moment to help to cope with the economic crisis that has been going on in Serbia for a long time, and indeed no one has the intention of not only relaxing, but we are aware that we have to do much more, that they are seeing, after half this year, some of the first signs of a mild recovery of the economy. I'll also tell you about this, as well as about the weaknesses and the problems we need to solve. What is already evident is that the government's GDP growth projection this year will be met and that in the first quarter of GDP has grown 2.1%, therefore, in line with expectations. I want to say to both the public and you, the honourable Members of the people, that this is not exactly the situation with all the countries in the region. Slovenia has a fall of 3.3% of GDP in the first quarter. Croatia has been in recession for several years and has a 1.5% decline in PBD. Hungarians also have a 0.3% drop. Bulgaria had a modest growth of 0.4%, and only Romanians had 2.2% similar growth as Serbia. I don't want to divulge this data, because I am aware that Serbia needs growth between 4 and 6% a year so that citizens can feel the direct benefits of it. This is a very modest growth, but the fact that after four consecutive quarters from last year, when Serbia had a GDP decline, for the first time in this year GDP started to grow. We must not be satisfied, nor are we satisfied with this information. We're aware of the fact that this has to be a much faster growth. That is why we have analysed the structure of GDP growth, to design measures to speed up those sectors that are already giving good results but also to start those that lower GDP growth. In the past, the biggest contribution of GDP growth has been given by the services sector, the processing industry, and not complete, but primarily by the automotive industry, the pharmaceutical industry and some other branches and agriculture. These are the three key growth factors Serbia is experiencing today. We are confident that by improving opportunities in those areas of the processing industry that did not give the expected growth in the current period of the year, as well as by increasing investment and fostering agriculture, we can speed up further growth of gross domestic product. However, in the next period, the government will first and foremost turn to those branches that are being drawn down by gross domestic product, which is primarily construction. Construction has a huge decline in all these years that precedes us and it is quite clear that one element of domestic demand, which is private consumption, cannot be affected by the short term. But state investment spending or expenditure on road construction, rail, infrastructure can be increased in general. There has been a weakness of all governments so far in the last 12 years of a bad organisation and a lack of preparedness to make effective use of the huge loans that have been completed in the previous period for infrastructure. From 2006 to today, Serbia has concluded around four and a half billion euros in project loans, exclusively for infrastructure development, traffic to energy and all other areas. It has not withdrawn 3.3 billion euros, and it has stood for years, on which Serbia is paying for the penalty. We often hear that funds for infrastructure projects are reportedly missing. I don't mean to say, many ministers who have begun to work in certain sectors are simply not responsible. However, there are also those who have long had jurisdiction over these projects and the government will analyse the impact of all those institutions and portfolios that have to do with infrastructure projects. We just don't have a choice. We need to increase the withdrawal of these funds and investment in infrastructure. Because it automatically means the recovery of a part of construction, primarily of low construction, and it means combining people. For the first time, Serbia's economic growth, after a long series of years, is based on exports. Much debate in previous years was justified, in professional circles, with international institutions, that it is not sustainable economic growth unless it is based on exports. There was a lot of regret that the high rate of economic growth between 2004 and 2007 was based on domestic consumption and not on exports, and that is unsustainable. A consensus has been made, both in economic science and among businesses, that it is only for Serbia as a relatively small country that economic growth is based on exports, because we have a small domestic market. For the first time, exports appear this year as the generator of our economic growth. That's why we have to do everything we can to further strengthen that exports. Also, to allow additional benefits from export growth to have as many domestic small and medium-sized enterprises as possible. The government is just finishing one detailed plan that, on the one hand, to re-industrious Serbia, and secondly, we intend to join all the companies that are now Serbia's largest exporters with our small and medium-sized enterprises that we will tie with them as their suppliers, that they produce components that are being built into export production. Exports increased 21% during the first five months of this year, while imports increased only 2% at the same time, so the external trade deficit in the first five months was reduced by more than one fifth. So it's really a solid result that certainly has no other country in the region. But I admit that Serbia has a low export base and that we must continue with such high growth rates in the next period. That's why it's just an idea, we've given you a budget-based list of the first 15 biggest exporters, from the Fiats, through Petrochemy, to Gorenja, so there are our companies but also abroad, that the first 100 largest exporters in Serbia give us a list of components that our domestic businesses can produce, our small and medium-sized enterprises, and then make a connection between them in all regions and between exporters. Because that's how we're going to increase net exports. That's our next goal now. Because exports are growing well, but we need to increase net exports, or as many domestic components as possible, into exportable goods. I have no illusion that our small and medium-sized enterprises can compete on the global world market, where huge marketing budgets are needed. But if we've already brought in and brought in multinational companies, then we have to tie them to our domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, because it's one of the models that we're going to apply in the second half of the year. The idea is to give the effects in the next period. As for exports, a historic record in Serbia in the monthly export value was reached in April – 950m euros were exported only in one month. In the last five months, the biggest contribution of export growth has been given by the automotive industry, not only "Fiat", but also by a large number of components from this industry. It is a good thing that the trend in the arrival of auto-industry companies continues. We have to do everything we can to make sure there's as many of them as possible. I will also present to you the last piece of information that is probably most important for every citizen of this country, for the government, of course, which is the movement of employment from the Labour Force Survey. The lowest unemployment rate in Serbia in the last 10 years was recorded in 2008 – 14%. We're talking about data from the Labour Force Survey, which determines how many people are really looking for a job. So it doesn't count, for example, on housewives who are registered on national service records and are essentially not looking for an active job. It includes those who work in the formal sector, but also those who work in the gray economy. Unfortunately, the unemployment rate grew four years consecutively, from 2009, when the crisis started until last year, when the unemployment rate reached 25.5% in Serbia in April last year. The latest data from last week's Labour Force Survey, which was also done in April this year, say that after four years of consecutive unemployment growth, the trend was finally cut short and that unemployment growth had at least stopped for a moment. Because the unemployment rate was still 24.1%, but that's 1.4% lower than it was a year ago. What is also relevant is the employment rate. It shows the percentage of employees in the total population over 15 years of age. The rate was 2% higher this April than in April of the previous year. I must say that the employment rate is not evenly distributed throughout Serbia. It was the largest in Belgrade, i.e. in the Belgrade region, at 37.9%, second in the Shumadija region and western Serbia with 36.7%, with the lowest in Vojvodina and southern and eastern Serbia - 354%. This means that in the next period we must also look at this imbalance. Of course, I have to say I didn't say this to make the government boast about this information. We're sure this isn't enough, but it has to be done far more to make something more significant on this front. As long as we don't reduce the unemployment rate to below 20%, there won't even be minimum satisfaction. But the fact is that after four years of consecutive growth in the unemployment rate, she is now stopped. That doesn't mean she can't start growing again. That's why I brought this up to you as just one piece of information, about which there's no euphoria in the government, because it's a very high unemployment rate, even though it's 5% lower than in Greece and Spain, for example. We are aware of the fact that one Germany has an unemployment rate of only 5% and if we have to have role models, of course we have to look up to the best ones. We're aware of how many people are out of work, how much he's looking for, but it's a good circumstance that this trend of continuous deterioration, which lasted four years, even if stopped, I won't say interrupted, has been stopped for a moment. We have to do everything together to reverse that trend in the coming years. As for inflation, it slowed down in the first five months of this year, at 2%, therefore, at the end of May at the end of December of last year and of course the Central Bank has the highest credit for this result. I put out this data not to say that the situation is great, we all know how difficult the situation is and we know how many problems there are in total, especially when we get into structural problems. The fact is, I think this government is capable of making some moves, aware of the fact that the problems are huge and that they can't be solved overnight. One relatively encouraging fact is that after we decided in May to define the new economic reform package, which includes savings on the bulky side, but also activities on better revenue collection, that in the previous month, June, the lowest budget deficit has been achieved since the beginning of the year, because according to the first preliminary estimates, i.e. the budget revenue figures amounted to around 70 billion dinars, and the expenditures of the republican budget are around 75 billion so far, so that it is the lowest budget deficit in the first six months. But I also have no intention of excessively boasting about this data, because this is my trend that should continue in the next period, to say at the end of the year whether or not we have failed. In the first six months of this year, the budget deficit amounted to 98.7 billion dinars. This is about 12% lower than in the same period last year, as in the first six months of last year, the republic's budget deficit amounted to 112.4 billion dinars. The revenues of the republic's budget were 382.3 billion, 481 billion, and that deficit was up to 98.7 billion. What's interesting about this year is that in the first five months of this year the deficit of the total state, i.e. the consolidated budget account, was lower and it was much lower than it was republican. For the first five months, these are the latest data we have, local self-governments had surpluses, so over 10 billion dinars, AP Vojvodina had a surplus, or surplus of 2.7 billion dinars, a health insurance surplus of 7.8 billion dinars. The mild surplus also had a military insurance fund of 0.8 billion dinars. In the first six months of this year, tax revenues were 10.6% higher than in the same period last year, but non-tax revenues were about 19.5% lower than in the same period last year, primarily because public enterprises last year paid their share of profits into the budget in the first half of the year, which will happen in the second half of the year. Therefore, the non-tax revenues were lower now in the first half than in the previous half. Total budget revenues, when we take both non-tax and tax aggregates, are about 7% higher in the first six months than in the same period last year. The expenditure was at the same time only 2.4% higher than in the same period last year. So our government hasn't ruined the money, the expenditures are really state-controlled, but the fact is that we've made less revenue growth than what was planned in the original budget. That's why we're here now in front of you to align budget expenditures with the revenues we expect and at the same time to take advantage of this debate in front of parliament to make not only measures that will have an effect by the end of this year, but at least in the next year and a half. These are the measures provided for in the amending budget system law. As far as certain tax revenues are concerned, the best charge is made with excise duties. In the first six months we had a growth of as much as 27.6% compared to the same period last year, in oil derivatives by 33% and in cigarettes by 25.6%, VAT was charged 10.4% higher than in the first half of last year. Then where did we fail? I already said, in non-tax revenue and in profit tax. Obviously, when the 2013 Budget Draft was made, we did not have data on the effects and results of the economy in 2012, which was really very bad and we overestimated the potential incomes from the profit tax, so that they were achieved by 15% less than in the first half of last year. We had higher incomes this year compared to the first half of last year, but lower than the original plan. That's why we're doing budget rebalances. Basically, in the first six months of this year, we charged 88% of our planned income. All macroeconomic analyses, given that we have achieved an economic growth of 2.1 and bearing in mind and the decline of domestic demand, which was 1.8%, but not greater than that, say that huge space exists in so-called. the informal sector, i.e. in the gray economy. That is why one important segment of these reforms will be measures to increase revenue collection. I must say, I may be responsible for perhaps not being as strict as the finance minister and as I was in the period from 2004 to 2006 at the beginning of this government's mandate. Why? Because we found the situation that the tax administration was pretty much in ruins, I have to say, because it didn't even ask the taxpayers to deliver information that was necessary under the law for five, six years. Since 2007, Malta, more than half of taxpayers who have fiscal cash registers have not delivered any transaction data through the GPRS account, and no one has punished them for it. I will set an example not only of the private sector, but of a public enterprise, the Ministry of Finance in 2008, at which point I thought Mirko Cvetkovic was the finance minister or whoever he was, gave the opinion that they were, for example. The "Serbian Ways" of VAT bonds, so that one big nothing would follow after that, because "Serbian Roads" did not apply it, and no one from the tax administration, nor then the director, nor did the finance minister then do anything to introduce the company into the VAT system, which is paid tolls in all countries in Europe. Even in 2010, the DRI gave such an opinion and yet they disobeyed without any sanctions on it, so that the new director of the tax administration, also after the control, suggested to the ministry that they do not pay VAT on toll and we have finally introduced them into the system from today, because we were forced to even block them on Friday to get there. We didn't want to resort to all the necessary collection measures before we detailedly notified all taxpayers that there would be no tolerance for non-taxation. We have done this in conclusion with May this year and started from June really unbiased that literally everyone who does not pay taxes to the state is being punished in accordance with the law, which includes first warning by telephone from our call center, so unless you pay what is owed to the state, there will be an official notice after five days of that official warning of the blocking of accounts. Of course there are calls to all sides of the IRS that the company from that or that city is not blocked. In the government, there is, at the top of the government, an absolute consensus that there will be no tolerance to non-payment of taxes to the state. I've said that more than once, one who doesn't pay taxes doesn't cheat on the state, but cheats on pensioners who can't count on bigger raises, or teachers, or doctors, or cops, or all the citizens because they can't have more quality infrastructure. There won't be any discounts, no tolerance. By the way, today is the last day to report property worth more than 35 million dinars. In the coming weeks, first controls will begin. First, we'll control those citizens with property worth more than 35 million dinars, which they haven't reported at all. They will immediately, on the spot, be charged a fine which has been dramatically increased by changes to the law in May and will amount to 3% of the total value of undeclared assets, and will then start to determine how this property has been acquired, whether it has the coverage of the assets in revenue. I have to say that when that difference is established, the tax will be cut from 20% to that difference. However, if some property is suspected of being obtained by crime, then the tax administration will inform the tax police, and she will inform the police and other authorities, because it is no longer a job for the tax administration, it will be a job for some other state authorities. Anyway, I'm calling on all those who haven't used these few months to report it today is the last day. By eight o'clock in the evening for tax administration. You can sign in electronically. There's a pattern, it doesn't have to be physically in paper. Who missed that chance, and I have to say that by a month ago, only 1,000 people reported it, while in the last week, another 1,300. Those applications are still coming, so we'll see at the end what the number is going to be. I'm sure people like that have a lot, a lot more than the number that's been reported. I hope that no one will complain the moment these harsh sentences start to go, because we've warned enough and we've been patient enough. As far as the budget rebalance proposal itself is concerned, budget receipts are planned at 873.4 billion and expenditures 1.051.8 billion. This year's budget deficit should be 178.3 billion and 4.7% of GDP, respectively. That's about 1.5 GDP lower than it was eventually achieved last year. Is that still a high budget deficit? Yes, it is. This is the maximum that could be done this year. Why am I saying that? Because in addition to reducing expenditure, we had to increase some other expenditures in order to achieve the government's plan. For about 12.4 billion, we had an additional increase in expenditure. Given that the net savings in this budget are 36 billion, we have reduced total expenditures by almost 50 billion, because they have simultaneously increased by 12.4 billion, reduced by about 50, slightly below 50 billion, so the net reduction is 36 billion dinars. The largest increase in expenditures for the transition fund is because it follows the government's Action Plan adopted last week to speed up and end the process of restructuring former social enterprises. Also, the budget for social protection, for maternity care, for the material security of families has been increased by 2.3 billion dinars. Some expenditures have also entered here to settle the previous government's obligations, primarily according to the recyclingists – 1.5 billion dinars, but therefore some previously agreed guarantees to "Srbigas" of about three billion dinars, which in one billion and eight hundred per cent breaks the budget for the payment of interest this year. In fact, there was supposed to be savings of around 1,200,000, because at the end of April, we paid half the London Trustees' Club early payment and we were supposed to have savings this year from 1,200,000 on interest. However, in the meantime, "Srbigas" has informed us that he is unable to pay guarantees on previously agreed loans of about three billion dinars in the previous period, which eventually increased net interest expenditure by 1,800,000 instead of reducing by 1,200,000 dinars. As for expenditure, they are the most reduced so-called. discretionary expenses, but new rules for planning wages and pensions have been introduced, not only this year but in the next year and a half. It is reflected by changes to the Law of the Budgetary System. We predicted that there was no freezing of wages and pensions, but that they grow minimally, in line with budget options – 0.5% in October this year, 0.5% in April next year and 1% in October next year. At the same time, I've already said that we've reduced all kinds of discretionary expenditures to the ministries by about 36 billion dinars in total. The largest reduction was made on the ministry that I run, the finance and economy ministry, of 6.1 billion dinars. After this reduction, the economy ministry's budget will be 2.53% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia, together with tourism. The defence ministry and MUP's budgets have also been reduced by about 3.1 billion dinars. The overall budget of the Ministry of Defence is 5.4% of the republic's total budget and totals 6.6% of the republic's total budget. Although we were forced to reduce one part of the expenditure in the Ministry of Agriculture, the participation of the agriculture ministry's budget in the total budget is 4.25%. You know our goal is to reach at least 5% of the separation. With these 4.25%, we stayed close to that goal. The only ministry we have increased the budget is culture, by about 320 million dinars, and the sport that remained with the same participation in the Republic's budget. In this way, cultural participation in total expenditure increased from 0.5% to 0.6% and sport remained at 0.45% of total expenditure. By amending the Budgetary System Act, which is ahead of you, we are predicting an additional set of measures to be taken to save, but above all in the budget of the coming and coming years. The most important thing we are introducing is the central register of all employees in the entire public sector. So, the republican level, the province, local, public enterprises, all who are doing something for the state, for the public sector will be registered in the central register of the Treasury Ministry of Finance by September 30th. Not only will the names and last names of people be recorded, but also the way they are employed – is it permanent, is it in particular, are these temporary jobs, are they some contracts? On what basis do they receive profits – is it a regular salary or are they some fees, bonuses, overtime? It will then be seen that since 1 January, when the centralised profit account for the republican institutions takes place, whether and in the current number of employees there are also those costs related to earnings that are non-real. This was introduced a year ago by the Croats and found that, for example, Overtime work sometimes paid there and for people who were on vacations and there were various things. Simply, neither their vault nor our vault now have any information on the basis of which profits are paid in schools, hospitals, public enterprises, republican institutions, agencies, etc. This is a way of keeping a record by law every seven days, every change will have to be recorded. So, if a change occurs within seven days, the database and what is very important to our public, and also to you MPs, all of these data will be available on the Ministry of Finance's website. So everyone will finally be able to have insight into how many people, on which basis they work and how much they earn in the public sector. The only one to be excluded from advertising on the website will be the MUP, the defence and the foreign ministry. Those three ministries for reasons of data security. Also, the centralized salary bill will be made by the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance for all republican institutions except for the police and the military, but the military and police will share this information with us and we will have common insight into these movements. The only one who won't be in this system will be security institutions. I already said it was BIA, VBA and VOA. Also, we have foreseen our overall plan not to grant any more negotiation of new credit portfolios until at least 70% of the previous certified credit has been withdrawn and used. I've already said how much credit has been agreed since 2006, how undrawn it is. Everything is 25, six, seven, eight percent, I'm not sure the exact number is withdrawn, which is really very little. We're introducing another newspaper. Given that the government, however you wish, had huge costs to stabilise the financial system due to the collapse of Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Banks, where around 200m euros have been paid in the previous seven, eight months, so-called unsecured deposits would be secured, that workers or businessmen or citizens whose deposits have not been secured in these banks were fully compensated. The cost was 200m euros direct for unsecured deposits only. We have decided that in the future there will be no more coverage of unsecured deposits, in the event of a problem with any bank. The state guarantees all secured deposits up to 50,000 euros, and there is absolutely a payment obligation. For unsecured deposits, he will no longer take over. The costs will no longer be taken over, and this is a new task for the National Bank of Serbia, to carry out a strict supervisory review, so that no case can happen that was found in the previous period. As for public sector reform, you know that there are 179 companies still in the so-called restructuring process, which has been introduced by law since 2002. So, ten years ago. The restructuring had an idea to allow these companies to change and become marketable. (National Ambassador Bozidar Djelic throws out of place. ) Mr Djelic, this is a topic, because according to estimates of the World Bank of States, it loses directly and indirectly at 750m euros a year, because it pumps money into companies that have no perspective. So we made a plan and divided all these companies into four groups. We want to eliminate these subsidies. These subsidies are not only direct subsidies from the Republic budget. They're also subsidized by local budgets. How? So they don't charge utility services, they don't charge taxes, they don't charge taxes, they don't charge republics, they don't charge locals. They don't pay for electricity. Instead of giving power to someone who doesn't have a chance to do something good, better to take it out so that money can be used to help a perspective economy. Of course, I'm not talking about subsidies. Instead of holding resources worth 750m euros annually in some way to keep social peace, such social peace is too expensive. It is better for these people to either get overqualified and find a job where they will have a future or if they are retired to allow them to retire and take care of themselves socially, and to save and put in an economy that has a perspective. Of course, we're not gonna treat all these companies the same way, because they're not all in the same position. Those companies that literally have no chance and have literally been doing nothing for ten years and are receiving subsidies will go bankrupt this summer. They're 27. All those on record in these companies, they have a fictitious job, severance will be paid and the general social programme will be equal for all 300 euros per year of work experience. We don't want to make any deviations, independence from the branch, from the financial force of the company. All those who are a technological surplus will have a social programme that is in fact at the highest level ever paid in Serbia -- 300 euros per year of work experience. As for the other group of companies, there is one group of 16 companies, which currently have positive current business, but have debts from some past. For them, we will create an advanced reorganisation plan, eliminate government debts, write them down, help them reprogram with discount - debts to private creditors and let them be independent on the market, because they have profits from the current business. So these 16 companies will remain independent on the market. They can stay state-owned, but they will no longer have the protection of the state from its creditors, and we will deal with their debt issues first. For about 66 companies, we'll publish an ad for sale. These are companies that have no systemic significance and on the market we will see if there are customers for them, and we have already adopted far more flexible conditions of competition than they were before. So, mostly, property will be sold, because no one will buy the debts of these companies, and that's from three companies -- 100% of the value, so if there's no 50% interest, and at the end of the day, 30% of the value of the property is going to be that ultimate price. If there's no interest in 30%, then clearly they have to go bankrupt, because no one will pay even 30% of the value of their assets. In that case, if there is bankruptcy for them, the same social programme will apply, as for this first group of enterprises. Finally, we will remain to solve the so-called former large systems. They're about 29. These are enterprises like October 14th, IMT, FAPA, First Five-year-olds, for which we will do our best to find strategic partners. For some of them, we're already on our way to do it, like "Friday," and for some, we're going to have to do a lot more work, like "October 14th," for which no one has been interested so far, these last 12 years. But we'll try to find partners here by model, like "Fiat" for "The flag" or like "Beneton" for "Nitex." Will that be possible? It is possible. Will it be easy? It won't be easy. That is why I have asked for the assistance of the president of the state, and of the prime minister, and of the first Deputy Prime Minister and of all mayors to engage actively and to involve us all together in solving these problems, because sometimes we have to pull investors together, as some of the better mayors in Serbia do. In any case, we will eventually have 41 other companies in a special status that are not systemically significant, such as enterprises that employ people with disabilities. She'll be state-owned. It will remain in some kind of social support state, because it really doesn't have as much to do with economic activities as it does with humanity, and some other water companies will also try to state and simply find a solution for them. It will be crucial to address the issue of these companies that now have positive results, have debts, get them out of restructuring, of course, the issue of finding strategic partners for these former giants who are now, unfortunately, far from it, have neither good technology nor market and where only strategic partners can definitely help. Also, we have decided that the state will come out of ownership or management in some public enterprises, and that also has a direct impact on spending cuts in the next period. There are mines with underground coal exploitation of Resavica, where the Energy Ministry will issue a public call in September for the start of the privatisation process. There's JAT, where we have a good conversation with Etyhad, and I hope we'll be able to inform you of their outcome soon. Galenika, whose privatisation process failed, now has to be consolidated urgently, which includes optimising the number of employees, but as a pharmaceutical industry it definitely has a serious perspective, as the pharmaceutical industry belongs to branches that have a lot of growth this year. There are several financial organisations called Dunav Insurance, the Cachanska Banka, where we will not be in a hurry, but if a good strategic partner of the state is shown, it will be ready to privatise these institutions. Also, we agreed that if we had the interest of strong investors to lease long-term management of Belgrade's investment airport, because the airport is profitable, but if we could get an even greater profit than all of it together, the state would remain 100% owner along with other small shareholders at the airport, but would give management of this institution. Finally, we cut the subsidies by 10% of the Railways. Railways will have to, on the one hand, make more efficient use of loans they haven't used in years, they'll have to find some internal reserves to cut some unnecessary costs. The biggest problem we have left to solve is "Srbigas", which is the biggest loser at the moment of all public enterprises in Serbia, where the Ministry of Energy is preparing a plan that will propose to the government to restructure "Srbigas", because the loss of "Srbigas" maltene was twice the loss of "The Railways" in last year, which is simply unsustainable and this company is seas and I am confident that it operates on market principles. I apologize if anyone thinks I've made up for this preliminary exposure, but the key to the success of budget rebalancing is actually the success of all these other reforms. We cannot expect the budget to stabilize unless the economy is in motion and the losses are eliminated where they are not necessary. That is why this programme will be implemented simultaneously and, of course, it would be very good if the implementation of such a programme, if not in advance, and even if the effects are seen, would be supported by MPs of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19860	Does the reporter of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19861	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we are discussing the budget rebalancing for us from the SP and DHSS in some way made of urgency due to the severe economic crisis which, unfortunately, is already taking place in our country, but also the result of not exactly brilliant planning, not only when it comes to work in the last year, but when it comes to working in the last few years and several governments, when it comes to the work of the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, we also warned about this when adopting this budget, and now these things are clearer than ever. We also warned that we needed to continue the reforms on which we had one part today to hear Mr Dinkic's presentation. The most we talked about was that a reform of the public sector is necessary and that, in fact, without this reform, serious entry into those reforms, which are not popular for any political party, we simply cannot come out of this crisis with big steps. Employment in public enterprises through party membership has reached such a level that no more public enterprise can withstand such a burden of politics, such payments and such losses, which are unfortunately evident in all cities and municipalities of our country. As long as we don't change the system way, not just business, but ways of thinking, I don't think we can talk about serious public sector reform, we can't talk seriously about our country's economic rebirth. What is also important, and what we have talked about very often, are amendments to the Customs Act, without which there are also no serious reforms. We all know very well that 50% of the goods that enter this country are goods without customs duty or at a lower customs rate, which is, of course, a huge budget loss. Also, changes to the Labour Act are necessary. As Mr Dinkic said, this law must be much more flexible, because it is unnatural that in public enterprises you have people who are almost not coming, protected by the political different colors of political parties, at jobs, that they do not lack hair from their heads, and that at the same time privates almost do what they want in privatised companies, of course, I am talking about individuals, and such an example is, for example, today in my Sombor, which I will say again in the battery factory, where the workers are completely disfigured. When we talk about the budget itself, we can say that the 2013 Budget Law provides for total revenues, receipts to be 965 billion or 80 billion dinars per month. In the first five months, 312 billion were reached, on average 26 billion, which is only one third of the planned revenues. Incomes are undermining 67% a month. That's a fact. The rebalancing forecasts a budget of 873 billion dinars, downgraded for the first five months, means that in June – December 2013 we will receive 80 billion dinars per month. This is an increase in revenue of over 300% compared to the average revenue achieved in the first five months, and June has already passed. We believe that this is an unreal pumping of income, without basics, unfortunately, with no idea how we're going to make it happen. When we talk about expenditures, for the first five months the expenditure is 405 billion a month. On average, it is 81 billion or 90% of the planned expenditure is realised. So we're saving 10% on the bulky side. It is planned to increase the planned spending by 2% and the real cost of 13%. When we talk about this year's budget deficit, the total deficit planned for 2013 is 121 billion 872 million dinars. For the first five months of 2013, the deficit is 93 billion 648 million, which is 76% of what was planned for the whole year. The deficit was an average of 18 billion 729 million dinars per month. If it doesn't change, the deficit will be 224 billion 755 million dinars or 185% of the planned deficit. The deficit increases to 173 billion dinars or almost 17%. Given the deficit already achieved in the first five months, this planned deficit means that in the June-December deficit at the monthly level will be six billion 641 million or almost three times less than the average monthly deficit for the first five months, and in June, as I have already said, we will only see. It seems to us that the basic idea, unfortunately, continues to be the borrowing of citizens. The revenues are actually smaller than they should, and that is what Mr Dinkic himself said. It's being spent a lot more than it can be. The deficit is doubled and will be a problem for the new deficit to be maintained. I dare say, although I do not consider myself an expert or an expert, that I should bet in 100 euros that by the end of the year, the deficit will rise once again. Contributions for the PIO, most users are expected not to change the planned amounts for profits and contributions to the employer's burden. The base rate to contribute to the PIO fund has increased by 2%, but this change is not seen in planned amounts for social contributions. If it is the contributions to the employee's burden and the employee's salary is also changing, does that mean, Mr Dinkic, that the net amount of earnings that will be paid to employees will be lower by 2%? What we also think is bad in our parliamentary club is that it is left at the same economic classification of 411 – wages, regardless of the tax on earnings is reduced by 2%. The same thing was done for position 412 – social contributions, although the rate was increased by 2%, which unfortunately also speaks of spending planning. We can freely express our concerns and that's the attitude of our MP club, so there can be no payment for the PIO contribution. The cost of travel, I must say, has been unreally increased in some situations. It increased by 6.5 million dinars, for example, at the Ministry of Finance or almost 50%, contracted services increased by 10 million or almost 20%, while ongoing repairs and maintenance increased by 50 million dinars or almost 1,000%. I have to ask – why do these costs increase in the general crisis when everyone else is shrinking? These costs are especially incurred when travelling across the country, i.e. when it's a campaign. Is it possible that the answer to this – is the pre-election campaign being prepared? The reduction in VAT and the reduction in aggregate demand, VAT revenue was less than planned over the first five months, which is not mentioned in the reasoning of the rebalancing. It's said that there's been a decrease in the aggregate demand to a little by about 10%, that's a fact. No answer is given – what led to a small aggregate demand? I think that would be very interesting to hear. The aggregate demand depends on the income and production available, and on the other hand, the reduction of aggregate demand affects the reduction of income and the increase in unemployment, which unfortunately continues to take place. My question is, after this, - what will be done to increase demand and achieve planned VAT revenues without increasing inflation? Of course, there are good things and bad things in this rebalancing process. In my presentation, I'd look a lot more at what I think is bad, but we can't say that there are no things that are extorted here, which are good at this moment, so that we can at least try to get out of this economic crisis that's getting tighter and tighter and tighter around our necks. The draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Law envisions a 5.7% reduction of the fiscal deficit to 4.7% of GDP. Considering the implementation of the budget over the past five months, it is clear that the deficit would reach the entire 213 billion dinars by the end of the year, which is terrible, which is the data published by the finance ministry. With this in mind, I can't help but wonder – which is why the government and the ministry haven't come up with a proposal like this before, because I believe more savings could be achieved than planned, which are at 36 billion dinar levels. I'll remind you that all of this, of course, is a stenogram, and we spoke when we adopted the budget for this year. It is a good thing that the reduction of subsidies for public enterprises is foreseen by two billion dinars. These companies mostly have monopoly, i.e. In addition, they are not able to operate positively, but are practically on the burden of all citizens, taxpayers, so we are in a position to make up for those companies that have the price of their goods and services at a lower level than real, practically through subsidies, to compensate for the missing resources on the burden of citizens. It clearly shows that the employership of these companies, stories of cheap services and goods of citizens, is actually selling fog and demagogy, which is the case almost from the beginning of the multi-party. The government must therefore be resolutely and without delay to deal with all the problems in managing large systems that instead of burdens for the state must become an engine of development, which is where we first think of EPS and "Srbigas" and we fully support the resolution minister when it comes to these problems. The budget shows that a good part of the reduced subsidies for public enterprises of 2.4 billion dinars will go to the repayments of loans from these companies, so it would be good for these companies to inform us about the projects made from the funds of these loans. It would be very interesting that the MPs elected here by the citizens who somehow control everything that is happening and what the government is doing finally have insight into the projects of these companies that are constantly losers, who are burdened by all citizens who are extremely poor. We often hear different data on the number of employees in the public sector on the question – how many in a state body are there employees? The answer is waiting for days, instead of winning in a few minutes, and even when it comes to MPs who are looking for that answer. This means that no one at this time has complete control over employment in the state administration, AP Vojvodina and local self-government, funds and various agencies that have not yet been shut down. That's why it's a good thing that the government predicted the establishment of a register with the users of public funds, in order to finally see order here, and that's one of the very positive things. The proposal for this law has brought great public attention to the work of indexation of wages and pensions, if we know that the net effect of limited indexation will be 12.4 billion dinars, or 0.3% of GDP, it is clear that the allocations for these purposes are still high and that they are a burden for the economy and society in general. Unfortunately, no one will be seriously involved. It is clear that a possible reduction in wages and pensions would have even more negative consequences and reduce demand, only deepening the crisis. The only way out of this situation, we in the SPO and DHSS think, are investments and new jobs and because it is a good thing that the item for subsidising the opening of new jobs has not suffered some major changes. With the improvement of the business climate, which I hope will happen, and also because of the EU's latest decisions, there is light at the end of the tunnel, and with the general assessment that the Ministry of Finance and the entire government are quite bravely dealing with all the problems, my belief remains that the rebalancing could have been done before and that it is now clear that there was no good planning and real view of the situation in the economy. I'd just like to say some more general things or some general places that I'd like to pull off as interesting. As we have already said, subsidies have always been a major item in the budget. The estimates are, as you yourself said, Mr Dinkic, that we pump nearly 750m euros a year into the world banks and, of course, can only be saved on large items, and most subsidies are, from an economic point of view, a clean waste of money or politics and the purchase of votes or staff for certain parties. Subsidies to public enterprises have been reduced by two billion dinars. It is about loans, liquidity subsidies, and then government commitments under previous government programmes to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, supply of equipment and for the growth of innovation. In addition to public enterprises, subsidies have been reduced to private enterprises from 13.9 billion to 12.6 billion, with this money being directed at Fiat, as well as for attracting foreign direct investment and other incentives for domestic economy. The restructuring subsidies are being maintained by companies that, we all know very well, have no business future, and those who could have done something have been sold or left on their own. Had there been more courage and brains and less political procedure, these subsidies would not have been granted even in previous years, they would have been abolished long ago, if, of course, they were dealing exclusively with citizens' interests. On the one hand, subsidies are reduced to restructured enterprises, and on the other hand, money is given to employees in these companies from the newly established transition fund, which is about 300 euros per year of work experience. We also find that illogical. The budget rebalance also affected the social housing, so instead of 250 million dinars, how much needed to be allocated to the construction and cost of these apartments, only 100 million dinars will now be spent, which we can understand in some ways, because the state is still in an extremely difficult crisis. The original budget for this year planned a cost of eight million dinars for Decade Roma activities, but the item is not mentioned at all in the rebalancing. My call to Mr. Shane and to all those who with this population are extremely easy to manipulate when it's a pre-election campaign, to explain why they did this. About two billion dinars have been reduced for tourism from 4.66 billion to 2.22 billion dinars, while subsidies in tourism fell from 2.65 to 1.86 billion dinars, which we consider more than realistic. Agriculture, forestry and water industry Minister Goran Knezevic insists that direct subsidies to farmers should not be reduced, although the agriculture budget will be reduced by 3.6 billion dinars, or 8%. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS fully support this view and can say it will be one of the most important items, i.e. the topic in further discussion and when the amendments are adopted, which will define whether or not we will support this budget rebalancing. I just want to end by saying that we hope that future budgets will be better planned when it comes to income and expenditure, that we are coming at a time when the rebalancing will not work every three months, that we will not be in debt, but that we will finance our debts and that we will also have visible results throughout the year for which the funds have been spent. If all this is gone, the debts will, unfortunately, be bigger, and the citizens will live worse or worse than they have ever lived before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19862	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19863	I'd just like to take a quick look at it, because the media's got false information, and you've now reiterated that the budget isn't supposed to provide funds for the Decade of Roma, which is not true. At 481 at the Office for Human and Minority Rights, 55 million dinars are foreseen, of which 35 million dinars are intended on behalf of the Decade Inclusion of Roma. That's the program we're talking about. The additional funds are also intended to finance the Roma Council for the improvement of the position of 700,000 dinars per contract. So, I don't know where that misinformation came from. This has not been changed in the budget and funds for the Decade of Roma have been provided in the budget for this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19864	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19865	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present the views and opinions of the SVM parliamentary group on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 and on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System. These two laws that are before us are closely linked and have a common goal of showing the way out of the severe economic crisis in our country. Last year, when we adopted and amended the Budgetary System Act, we said that unfortunately it would not be possible to monitor or verify the structure of the funds belonging to the Constitution of the AP Vojvodina. And today we think it's like that, that we can't track it, and we can't even check the structure of these funds. The very basis with this rebalance has been reduced from 837 billion to 760 billion dinars, but we don't think that's the problem. We think everyone must bear the burden of our country's difficult financial situation. The problem is that the funds are intended for capital investments only on paper. Here we refer especially to the funds provided for the construction of the highway Novi Sad – Ruma – Šabac – Loznica. The SVM parliamentary group will not vote for the laws ahead of us. First of all, because we have to give a real picture of the state of our country's financial situation, and the drive to reduce the budget deficit, and not to increase it at all. Secondly, funds for the development of the Vojvodina, as I said, are not respected, but only on paper. Thirdly, the losses of public enterprises from the budget continue to be paid. As a fourth, the most important measure - the consolidation of our country's financial situation, which is the reconstruction of the public sector, has been delayed again. The only positive thing is that the government admitted that the situation was unsustainable and had to bring rebalancing. It's about time we brought rebalancing and somehow started making guidelines that would control public finances. The draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system has drawn up some measures that will introduce order and control in the public sector. We welcome those measures relating to the indexation of pensions and salaries. We also welcome the introduction of a central register for public sector employees. We are sure that this law, or that these laws will be passed, but the question arises whether this will apply in practice at all? We saw the case with the Public Business Act. That law has been passed, but not today. As we know, yesterday was the last day to write down competitions for executive positions in public enterprises. I don't know how many public enterprises have done this job, and more boards work in these public enterprises. This draft bill on the budgetary system will cause bigger problems in the public sector than the Law on Public Enterprises, as more people will be touched. Here I think of those workers or those people who got jobs by party books or by the merit of their work in parties. So, with this law, there is still a centralized calculation of profit and income control in the public sector, as well as the number and structure of jobs. The question arises how will a faithful party soldier be rewarded from now on? For these small reasons alone, I do not see the reality that this law will apply in practice, as is the case with the Law on Public Enterprises, but I hope that it will apply in practice. As far as budget rebalances are concerned, if we look at the budget on our own, it's one scale on two sides, one side is income, and on the other side is expenditure. This scale should be balanced. That means we should spend as much money as we make. Unfortunately, the situation isn't like that with us, we spend more than we make, which means the budget's in deficit. If we look at only global figures in budget rebalancing by some important categories, such as total revenues and total expenditures, budget deficits and total fiscal deficits, if we compare these figures to the Budget Law, then we come up with the following facts. In the 2013 Budget Law, total revenues amount to 966 billion. According to rebalancing, this category is 873 billion dinars. That means we have a cut in revenue by 93 billion. Total expenditures under the Budget Law are 1,078 billion dinars, and the overall expenditures are now 1,040 billion dinars. Here we have a spending cut, as we heard from Mr. Secretary, about 36 to 38 billion dinars. The budget deficit, unfortunately, is expected to be 112 billion dinars under the law, and according to rebalancing, this category is 167 billion dinars. If we look at both sides, it's an increase in the deficit by about 56 billion dinars. That means we've increased the minus for these 56 billion dinars. The last category is the total fiscal deficit. According to the Budget Law, 122 billion, and the rebalance is 178 billion dinars, which means that we also have a deficit of 56 billion dinars here. I'll give you an example. If our team were to participate in a four-time 100-metre race and one runner won his race, the other three would lose. I have explained in a similar way that it is not enough to reduce and that we have savings on the divisive side if, unfortunately, we do not have an increase on the income side or if the other segments of four segments are only one positive and the rest are negative. It may well be said in the media that with the rebalancing, we're saving about 38 billion dinars, but in fact here we're talking about a deficit or a minus in the 56 billion dinar budget. We think the Ministry of Finance should find some solutions to get us out of this crisis, not to sell fog. Like I said, out of four basic notions in the budget, only one is improved. The only positive thing about rebalancing is that 38 billion dinar expenditures are reduced. Unfortunately, our incomes have been reduced. Last year we passed a set of laws, a set of tax laws where we thought we were going to increase the income side, increase the VAT rates, tax on citizens' income, tax on profits, then expand the base for excise duties. Unfortunately, these measures did not bring very positive solutions, but in the real situation, we lost 93 billion dinars. So, the only thing that's safe is that tax rates can't be increased because businesses and citizens are overloaded. We have problems with tax collection and financial discipline. Maybe we have big tax evasions all over the country. If we want to bring discipline into our finances, how can we do that, when not today's local self-government, the province government and the government themselves are the biggest debtors of our businessmen? We have passed the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions between the public and the business sectors. Under this law, the payment of obligations arising from 1. The 04th is being followed, and I think the law is effective in application. But unfortunately, in municipalities from the lowest levels of government, there's a big difference between not paying these bills. Mr. Minister said that some of the balances or accounts of our local self-government are in surplus. I think the minister knows, and I'm not going to say anything new, with unfortunately these bills that are in the bars not giving exactly the right information. If we look at these old debts that are still in the drawers of our local self-government, which are not paid, they give it, for example from the municipality where I come from, there are 72 million dinars in the county's jury account, but the account in the drawers is about 100 million. So, although the municipality is in a positive balance, it actually has a negative balance. Another problem in our financial situation is the black and gray economy, as well as the black market. With these categories down, we could increase the revenue side of our budget. Like I said, the funds are on the giro accounts, and the municipalities and local self-government, in plus, but they're so-called. dedicated funds that local self-government cannot spend. Here are the dedicated funds for agriculture or from the lease of agricultural land. If we look at the budget, the total income, unfortunately, we had a amount of 966 million dinars and a billion dinars, they were reduced to 873 billion rebalances. Here we have a revenue cut of 93 billion dinars. Total expenditure, by law, is 78 or a billion dollars. We have 38 billion savings here. With these 38 billion, we have seen that each ministry has reduced its costs. I think it was dependent on what resolution minister was as much as the security and resolution ministers decided where they would reduce or make savings within their ministries. It was listed here which ministry made as much savings as it did. As we can see, the Ministry of Finance has had six billion savings, the Ministry of Agriculture 3.3 billion, MUP 3.1 billion, the Ministry of Education three billion. The essence of this rebalancing was best formulated by a professor from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, Mr. Gjuricin. He said -- this rebalancing is a compromise of political power, given the relatively broad coalition made up by the current government and the contradictory interests of coalition representatives. Unfortunately, the professor told the truth. I've listed a few more concepts here, such as inflation. As we've heard from Mr. Minister, inflation is now about 10% instantaneous. When we made a budget plan for this year, I think we planned 5.5% of inflation. So inflation's almost twice as big. Why did I point that out? Because inflation affects the course of the dinar. If we look at it, unfortunately, we have a lot of credits that are taken with the foreign exchange clause and we pay interest with the foreign exchange clause and we have guarantees that are very large. So, the rate of the dinar affects the revenue side of the budget, but unfortunately, it has a greater impact on the expenditure side of our budget. As for the loan, we welcome these measures, as Mr. Minister said no new loans are being negotiated until these loans have been paid off. Unfortunately, we know that our country is over-indebted with loans. If we look at it that way, for the next 30 years, we have loans to pay off. Some loans start paying off around 2018, and it will last until 2042, if there are no reprogrammes, but it will be. The interest is on the loans. As we know, the best credit is if we get no interest, but that's never been approved by this country or our country. We took some credits with large interest rates and some with smaller interest rates. So the state has to, or we have to pay interest at 25 billion dinars this year. As we said last year, we will not issue guarantees only to public enterprises for investment, and we will not issue it for the maintenance of liquidity. Unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that the guarantees with a rebalance of 41 billion dinars have increased to 58.7 billion dinars, it's because of "Serbiagas," as we know. If we look, we have an agreement with the IMF that these guarantees shouldn't cross the 30 billion dinar line. I think we will have this excuse for this, too, because in the EU only those guarantees have been taken into account which have been activated, but with us, unfortunately, every other guarantee is activated. As for the funds for Vojvodina, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians said it would fight for the financial resources that belong to the Constitution, the AP Vojvodina, this is about 7% of the budget and, of course, three weeks, which should be directed towards capital investments. So, as I said, the base is down to 761 billion dinars, which means that about 53 billion dinars should be given to Vojvodina as their own resources. Unfortunately, we have come to the fact that some assets such as guarantees are higher in this budget than Vojvodina gets, and these public enterprises are only bringing us money, and in Vojvodina we have a tax charge and a good tax charge. So we're increasing the income side. As I said, these things are transferable assets and unfortunately we can't see the structure of these funds and unfortunately for capital investments these assets are not being received or obtained on paper alone. We don't think these financial resources are big for the republican budget, but they're very significant for Vojvodina. Finally, I would say again that our parliamentary group will not vote for these laws, firstly we need to give a realistic picture of our country's financial situation, the funds for the development of the Vojvodina are not respected, only on paper, they are still paid to lose businesses from the budget and as the most important measure to consolidate our country's financial situation, and this is the reconstruction of the public sector has been postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19866	Thank you. National MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19867	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I think it's been a pretty big opportunity to make a big step and make today's debate the beginning of a new political agreement. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Before I say anything about numbers, I want to talk about politics in this highest political home in the country. Citizens sent a message to you, to the government and to all of us that they did not want to participate as the Ministry of Finance and the Government felt it was possible to finance their country. I think that the essence of this political agreement should precisely be a consensus, not only among you in the parliamentary majority, nor among all of us in this assembly, at least among the ministers and members of the government, but a large majority agreement between the citizens of Serbia, as far as we are willing to pay our country. Before the New Year's Eve, you felt that citizens were ready to single out 8.3 billion euros, paying taxes and other taxes, it turned out that you now believe that we are all ready together to pay 7.5 billion euros. The fiscal council thinks you're wrong. He thinks another 15 billion dinars will be less income, we'll see. He thinks fiscal advice and that 10 billion dinars will be a bigger expense and we'll see about that. But the bottom line is somewhere else. The point is, with this rebalancing, you didn't open the door to get into a whole new political space. What do I want to say? I'll just give you two examples. A few weeks ago, we talked here about a set of tax laws and you had a proposal and you defended it and bravely and consistently and you stayed in the minority about how to change the way of taxing several very important segments of public life – doctors, lawyers, teeth, accountants, advertising agencies. I think you've opened the subject in the wrong way, but it's a good thing the topic is open. Why isn't Mr. Minister open a debate with the Association of Doctors Acceptable? So when you came in here with that law, you said that private doctors paid less taxes than they should pay, given the assessment that you must have had by making such a bill. Now I'm asking you -- why didn't you open a debate with these doctors and say, "I think you're making a little contribution to funding the state and it has to be different, then I think we'd have one way to discuss what's going on with us." I'm sure the doctors would ask you – excuse me, Mr. Minister, and when can we expect to be able with the Health Insurance Fund, even though we're privates to make contracts, so someone can choose us as the chosen doctor? Then you would probably ask them – excuse me, gentlemen, how much do you hire a doctor who works in the state service to work here and with you and pay him all the contributions and taxes for what they earn you here? Then they would ask you – excuse me, Mr. Minister, and what is the structure of the health workers? How many thousand unhealthy workers have surpluses in the health system? How many thousand health workers, doctors, nurses, medical technicians have fewer than necessary? It's a real debate, then it makes sense to talk about it. It's no difference with lawyers either. You entered the Assembly here and said: it is bad that you pay so little tax. They said it was not true. You have to say how much you think lawyers should pay taxes in this country and dentists and everyone, so everyone can say what they have on that thing. Farmers, too. Then the question arises, Mr. Minister, what is the structure of the administration's staff? How many people work for the central state? How many people work for cities and municipalities? Does it take so many employees to have? Then it is a fundamental debate that can lead us to a consensus on how much we as citizens of Serbia can and how much we need to pay for our country. There's no one else to open this debate but you. Or to get you some kind of external circumstances if the government won't do it, to force you into a government, to force you into the opposition or to force you into some other social force if neither the opposition nor those who sit in government are willing to put their energy into it. We suggest we get into that debate. 'Second example, one small village in the west of Serbia. You, Mr. Minister, have transferred your property tax to local administrations because you didn't want as finance minister to have you disagree with the people so that you would cut millions of households off, of course, through the tax administration, the property tax. Then somehow you thought it was more convenient for the mayors to do it, the president of the municipalities. Mayors, municipal presidents, Mr. Minister, like you like to be popular, so they're not too enthusiastic about cutting taxes. We come up with a very absurd situation and some amazing things. I don't know if you've been dealing with tax duties and taxes in local self-government. What's that like in town meat communities? What does it look like in rural local communities? Is that the real, as I would say, fiscal capacity that the country has? Here, a small village in western Serbia has fifty households, slightly less than that. Fifty households have an annual duty in a very lively and up-to-date local self - administration that takes care of all this. So 50 houses, 100 euros in tax debt for a year, on behalf of the property tax, on property. Salary, 80 euros, is such a charge, for four years' debt of 400 euros, they paid less than 350 euros. Then there was a need to make a local road through that village. They went to the boss of that local self-government and asked him what the odds and possibilities were, and he said, right now, if you think it's that important, let's make a deal, you pay one dinar, and the local self-government will pay your one dollar to pay another dinar. Let me remind you, 100 euros a year in debt, 400 euros in salary for four years, are in charge. Do you know how much money they've set aside for the local road? They singled out 17,000 euros, a village of 50 households. Would you, Mr. Minister, do you think someone could cut the property tax of 17,000 euros? I think there's gonna be a riot by all means. Maybe if he cut someone up, he could, but if he did, he wouldn't. That's why the proposal is ours and we've been talking about it for weeks, for months, we from the Party Together for Serbia, to keep the property tax to the local communities. Let's see when we leave, which is, of course, a question now for the presidents of municipalities and local parliaments, but nothing that bothers you to deal with it, either, because that's a question of what people are willing to give money for, when it comes to public affairs. Let's see how many villages are willing to pay property taxes, how many city and local communities or urban districts are willing to pay property taxes? Let's do a good competence, that those who are better, have better odds, so who's more willing to do it, have a better look, finish their public affairs, and finish their way to the local and low-voltage power grid, solve the irrigation issue, where it can be solved locally, to solve all the issues that matter to them from schools where children go, from these local communities to the hospitals where they're being treated. It's the right way for us to open the debate and then everyone will ask their mayor a question, I'm sorry, how many people are in your administration. How can that be one employed in Germany in the administration of 1,000 inhabitants? And with us, how many, Mr. Minister, per 1,000 residents, average local self-government employees? That was the right way and the right way. It's not the right way to rebalance where somewhere around 35 billion of you have managed to reduce consumption, and according to the explanation, about 15 billion will spend less on cities and municipalities. When you add up the budgets of all cities and municipalities, it's much less than this state budget, and they bear the greatest burden and it's not fair to explain how it's because of an administration that's too big, because I don't see why you haven't laid down the rules that administration can have any frames, so whoever breaks those rules, then we can go with it in a different way to establish communication and relationships. I think you've missed a great opportunity to open this debate now and that's not good, and I agree with a colleague who spoke before that. This is a political compromise, but it's bad, nothing changes, nothing here is fundamentally and structurally going to be changed with this budget rebalance. I don't know if you or the government or the parliamentary majority are expecting the election, so you didn't want to do it now. I don't think things are going to go that way. Now he'll settle down for a year as the government is established. If she pushes a full mandate, I'm afraid you're losing time, to essentially get things started. I'll be back to square one. The bottom line is, can we reach an agreement, first politically, and on that basis, in the whole society as far as we're willing to pay our country, pay our country, our education, our health care, our safety, our courts, our army? The Serbian uprising was 1804 years old, it began today in 2013. I think it's time we all looked into each other's eyes together, so let's see how we do it, because this can't be done, Mr. Minister. It can't be when you enter the congregation and overnight you want to change the way you tax different social groups, different professions, because it just doesn't work, you fail, you spend time, days and months, and it's a shame we don't. As far as the budget rebalance itself is concerned, 965 billion dinars have been estimated to be income, when the New Year's budget is brought here, and now you think it's going to be 873 billion. Like I said, the Fiscal Council doesn't share your opinion and thinks it'll be 15 billion less collected income, or that it'll spend you 10 billion more, or we'll spend it. When all this is summed up, Mr. Minister, the difference between what is foreseen in the budget and what, if this rebalancing is voted on, will be a billion euros. So, a billion euros in the budget that, when it is now re-calculated on this course, was about 9.5 billion, a huge error in forecasting. It's not one, not two, it's over 10%. There's something very, very bad about methodology and it doesn't give you confidence. I think we should all be very concerned. It turns out that, as tax increases go up, we're consensual, there's no increase, but I don't think that all these increases have given the right effect, because you've made a comparison in tax revenues, making comparisons with last year, but when you look at what it looks like with the plan that you've made, there's a lot of things that are bad, 30 billion less will be selected VAT, than you planned, with excises, too, a significant reduction, which means that the increase in VAT from 18 percent to 20 percent, is not the thing that has produced in life as the government expected. The increase in excise duty, the tobacco is very problematic, Mr. Minister, to fuel slightly less, but with fuel, we have some other topics that we can open up and the moment comes. If the gray market is so much increased, the big question is what to do. I agree that, Mr. Simic, you should very well reprove, because it does not lead to a good tax administration, so the charge problems are very significant, but I'm afraid the repression won't be, if it's applied as a method enough. If I could see well somewhere, 42 percent of the transactions that were controlled were not covered by the issue of fiscal accounts. There's no such thing as repression or control that can change it in itself. So what I firmly believe is that it is possible to change life in Serbia, only if millions of people get the chance to decide, millions of people can get the chance to decide, if they get, and have the budgets they're going to decide on. That is why I believe, until the local communities get their budgets, and until people start making decisions on what is nearest and their daily life, we will not succeed in gaining Serbian citizens for a major reform. What Zoran Djindjic would say -- it's not enough, Mr. Minister, that you want it, or the whole government wants it, or this whole parliament, with all its heart to want it, until millions of people are ready to change our lives in Serbia, we won't change it. That's why this isn't enough. That is why the parliamentary group will vote for Serbia to vote against budget rebalances, as this budget rebalance will not be an instrument that will allow the change of life in Serbia to begin. The first vice president of the government you're in, Alexander Vukic, has the habit of saying that you need to change your mind. I agree, you can also say the frequency on which the nation works and the view on which public life is founded, you can call it whatever you want. With this rebalancing, it won't be changed. The budget is the most important regulation in this regular political life brought by parliament and proposed by the government and the budget will be or some rebalancing, we will see what will happen when it comes to order, the first sign that we are really ready to change ourselves and change our society. I don't know if you're going to have another chance, Mr. Minister, but if you have it, I want you to take advantage of it with another proposal, to really run big processes, they're going to run one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19868	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19869	I'd just like to briefly comment on some of this data to simply speak the language of the facts. And you and I are aware that things in the economy can't produce results in a short time or that it's most ungrateful to run a portfolio of economies and finances, given that the effects of the measures being taken today are seen in a few years. The fact is that four or five years ago, no one could have imagined that the automotive industry would bear the development of Serbia. We had almost nothing from the automotive industry, so one strategy that was then quite skeptically welcomed and followed all those years, until it started to happen, here finally in this year has shown its first great results. The same goes for the excises you were talking about. I wouldn't be so sure that it was a mistake for us to increase excise duties on tobacco and on petroleum products, but only in budgetary policy sometimes it takes patience and we won't change it. We'll try to charge more. Why am I saying that? I already said, we were encouraged by the June moon, because we started to see the first effects. So you're wrong about excise duties, because they've failed revenue from the plan, but not as much as some other income. So I've already mentioned in the opening statement that we've achieved 27.6% more of our first half of this year's taxes than in the same period, which was about 5% less than the plan. So, about 95% we charged, as much as we planned, and we started to improve with the flow of time that. So let's wait until the end of the year to see that. Of course, I take all the warnings well-meaningly, we're working in conditions of great uncertainty, not just us, but my colleagues all over the world. The Russian finance minister has rebalanced the budget since May, I think it's better to start with, as soon as the problem is seen, we could technically not do the rebalancing until September-October of the month, but we wouldn't achieve anything. I essentially rebalanced in the government already in May, and now we're officialing it and June is the first month to give some result. But, of course, I accept all of what you've said, certainly we need to talk to citizens about all the issues and about tax policy and with certain professional associations, and I'd be happy to apply some of your ideas in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19870	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19871	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed budget rebalance with associated measures, as it sees them as an exorbitant response to the unpredictable distortions created on the revenue side of the budget. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, which is ahead of us, sees the proposal as not a very happy solution, when it comes to certain budget items, but overall seen as a quite good solution. However, we must stress that we did not expect to face the budget rebalance halfway through the last year when we were very supportive of it. On the other hand, no matter how uncreditable the budget rebalance has been working for half a year, it is still not too late for financial movements to get off the wrong track, if they can't get back on track. A rebalance that would wait for autumn could probably be better prepared, but it would be too late to give even more serious results. The signals that came to us during May of the IMF and the Fiscal Council have indicated precisely the need for the most urgent adoption of budget rebalancing, quoting "the IMF report would send a clear signal of the state's readiness to deal with fiscal indiscipline, i.e. fiscal weaknesses". In addition, almost the same position that Serbia is in today, there are almost all EU member states with the exception of Germany and some smaller countries, such as Luxembourg and some Nordic and Baltic countries. Let me just give you some examples. In 2012, one France had a deficit of 4.8% of GDP, Ireland 7.6%, Greece 10%, Spain record 10.6%. This year too, the situation won't be much better, it'll be something better, but it won't be much better. The whole of Europe has problems curbing the budget deficit and everyone is looking for ways to make the necessary fiscal consolidation measures as painful as possible. In contrast, many countries were even forced to use ultimately unpopular measures, such as pay and pension cuts. To see such a measure, we don't have to go far from Serbia. For example, two of our, conditionally speaking, neighbours, Croatia and Slovenia were forced to apply exactly this measure which is extremely unpopular. The situation in which the state is presently, i.e. its financial position, the product is, I would say, different and objective factors but also subjective factors or through a different vision, more or less predictable factors. The order of objective factors that have contributed to poor projections, primarily the revenue side of the budget, is a difficult predictable change in the macroeconomic environment, which is also referred to by the Fiscal Council and the unforeseeable tax non-discipline, although this can be included in the subjective factor, since such a thing has been anticipated. An additional contribution to undermining budget revenues has shown too optimistic forecasting of the revenue side of the budget. That it was really difficult to predict all the circumstances that led to the imbalances in budgetary developments, it said that the Fiscal Council, even in the darkest forecasts that, in the 2013 budget analysis at the end of 2012, did not predict this kind of growth in the budget deficit. I'll remind you that the Fiscal Council indicated that the budget deficit could increase to 4.5%, possibly, when it comes to the blackest forecast, to 5% of the gross domestic product. So, the fact that an independent body, i.e. The corrective element of the competent ministry, i.e. the Government, whose job is not to be in favour of governmental proposals, on the contrary, but to point to possible failures and to warn about their consequences, has not seen all the potential dangers of the realisation of the budget, throws a slightly different light on this discussion today. If budgeting were not just our exclusive right at all, but something that is happening, I would dare say, perhaps not throughout Europe, but in many European countries, this shows us the latest report by the European Commission for spring 2013, in which budget deficit corrections have been made for several countries. For example, for Italy from 2.1% to 2.9% of GDP. For France from 3.7 to 3.9% and for Portugal from 4.9 to 5.5% of GDP. The fact is that there are quite a number of objective factors that have affected the abortion, i.e. the failure that we have made to design the budget, or the budget deficit that is greater than what we have projected, but having many of them does not mean that this should be an excuse, on the contrary. The observed subjective mistakes made in the 2013 budget design must serve as a science that the budget planning for the coming year has started much earlier, which, for the truth, last year was not possible and that, when the budget was made, the competent ministry was more guided by pessimistic and a little less optimistic forecasts of its achievement. In the proposal sent by the Government, three groups of measures can be singled out with the different manual effects of their application. The measures on the bulky side of the budget with excessively short-term effects intended mainly to put an end to the fire that occurred and to a lesser extent in the short-term medium-term effects, these are those measures relating to the restriction of wage and pension growth in 2014. Then, measures on the revenue side of the budget to deliver results on the medium term, while the effects of these measures on the shorter deadline cannot be estimated as excessively significant. At the end of a structural reform aimed at a more sustainable recovery of public finances in Serbia. As I have already said, the budget rebalance for 2013 is to put an end to the fires created in the fiscal sphere in the first six months of this year, and to say perhaps a little earlier in 2012. However, for the more lasting recovery of Serbia's public finance and economy in general, which would be a momentum for sustainable medium-term growth, serious structural reforms, which are part of the proposal for these associated measures, should be achieved, but we should already start to work seriously on next year's budget projections. Restrictive budgetary policy will have to continue in the coming period, with focus being shifted to longer-term measures. This reminds us of the example of Slovenia, which last year managed to reduce the budget deficit to 4% of GDP by applying some of the measures that are very similar to ours, and I would say even more radically. In addition to the reduction in subsidies and capital investments, they went to a reduction in wages and pensions as I mentioned earlier. However, due to the one-time effect of these measures, they have a problem this year that they will be virtually deficient compared to GDP. Their deficit will be almost 10%, let's be exact 9.4% of which 4.1% is waste on a financial injection given to banks. So, the short-term measures can't give results that will be serious, they can't reverse the trajectory, what the Fiscal Council of our public debt was talking about, we need to start doing a little more serious, some more long-term measures in the fiscal sphere. The most significant effects this year are expected from measures aimed at reducing expenditure. The biggest savings are planned to be made by limiting wage and pension growth and reducing capital investments, subsidies and discretionary expenditures from budget users. By increasing the separation on the bulky side, the decision to finally tackle restructuring is, that is, the completion of this process that has already been, as some of my predecessors have said, taking too long. Then, they're focused on some social transfers, except for these because what's connected to restructuring is the practical formation of a transition fund, which is a kind of social transfer. Not carrying out some previously undertaken commitments, it is the previously mentioned commitment, i.e. a guarantee with "Srbigas" and the takeover of commitments towards recyclingrs inherited from the previous period and the transfer of RTS to budget financing. Although they could have been heard in one part of the public by some proposals to go to a reduction in wages and pensions, I would say that the government has decided very correctly not to agree to such an idea and not to apply such a measure, as this would thus virtually shift the greatest burden of the crisis to the poorest citizens, who I am not sure that in these conditions of the economic crisis and the situation in which Serbia is today, such a thing could endure. It is clear that this announced October increase of 0.5% of salaries and pensions is almost symbolic, but given the expected very low inflation rates in the coming months, i.e. in this period by the end of the year, it can be said that in the next six months, this standard will be maintained as much as it will be maintained and will not be drastically reduced by increasing the wages by 0.5%. This increase of 0.5% has, of course, some psychological effect, because an increase of 0.5% has a different effect on aggregate demand than, let's say, that wages are left at the same level, because when wages are left at the same level or reduced then it can be very easy to reduce the aggregate demand drastically, which would reflect a reduction in GDP growth, or a reduction in projected GDP growth. The reduction of discretionary expenditures and subsidies are certainly the most natural measures that could be approached during such a serious crisis, and in this respect the SDPS parliamentary group welcomes them. We believe that it will be made, and that there is already a serious credible and realistic plan of cutting subsidies that will reduce only unnecessary and inefficient subsidies, i.e. transfers without jeopardising those who need such subsidies. I think of farmers too much here and those smaller farmers. As far as reducing public investment is concerned, the situation is a little more complicated. Although the need to apply this measure cannot much be objected to in the absence of a reduction in the deficit in the EU in this and the previous year, it was used by the Czech Republic, Italy, Slovenia and others. However, we should be concerned about the messages that come to us from individual economists and representative trade unions, which justifiably indicate that the reduction of capital investment threatens growth. We of the SDPS are in favour of building partnership relations with trade unions, and therefore we are calling for all messages from representative trade unions to be taken very seriously and incorporated into the projections of some of the upcoming budget proposals. The solution that could be considered compromise is to give up, at this point, unnecessary investments and postpone those which are not necessary with a serious analysis of the economic justification of all investments to be made. The fact is that changes to the Budgetary System Act are something like that, but these measures are only being applied from next year, and the question is what are we going to do with this year, which also provides for a rather reduction in capital investment, and I am not sure if there are adequate programmes to reduce them. In addition to the correction of the budget's revenue at lower, in line with the planned bribery in charge, the intervention with the effects on the revenue side of the budget is directed to an increase in tax discipline, i.e. the functioning of tax evasion. In addition to increasing the rate to individual taxes, it turns out that these increases did not produce adequate results, i.e., practically, what we have projected in the 2013 budget was not feasible. The biggest bribe in the charge of taxes in absolute terms was recorded in the VAT item of over 30 billion dinars, already mentioned by a colleague, a previous speaker, which is a pain not only ours but also a large number of European countries. For example, Poland, Slovakia, Montenegro and many others. Unlike us, in some European countries, or EU member states, the situation is even much worse. For example, Italy, Lithuania and Cyprus, which also increased the VAT rate, recorded even less income this year based on these taxes that did not happen with us. Thus, the reduction in economic activity, purchasing power and real trade traffic have caused a slight reduction in unexpected tax revenues across Europe, not just with us. However, not all tax cuts can be explained by trends. One part of the budget's return was due to growing tax evasion. Given that Serbia is one of the leaders in Europe in the size of a grey economy, with an almost 30% share in GDP, this is obviously a problem that may be, and I should say, calculated into the budget for this year. For example, for the sake of giving illustrations and citizens, the highest percentage or participation of the grey economy in GDP has Bulgaria, slightly more than we do, Romania and Croatia are immediately behind us, which concludes that this is something that is very good in these areas. The EU average is around 18.5%. So far lower than we have. Thus, when some new measures are adopted, it must certainly be calculated and the possibility that certain tax forms will occur, precisely because of tax evasion, i.e. because of the large size of the grey economy. In any case, the announced measures of comprehensive coordinated tax control actions represent a step towards a necessary reduction in the grey economy. One measure that could further reduce the budget deficit is the announced sale of a 4G mobile phone license. The same measure was used to fill the budget last year by Ireland, the Netherlands and Romania, and this year also plans Slovakia, and I would say there is no reason for over-scepticism, which seems to me to have appeared in the public's work on this idea. As for the possible dilemma of whether it was necessary to intervene more on the income or on the bulky side of the budget, I don't think it was much of a dilemma. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes that an increase in tax pay, such as income tax, company profits or VAT, will remind you that the IMF has suggested that the lower value added tax rate, i.e. from 8%, would not be a good solution for citizens and even less for the economy. As an example, I'm going to give you Hungary, which in previous years has been very successful in fighting the deficit in the budget just by increasing taxes. However, after those few successful years, they are now in a situation that these taxes have to rise again. It doesn't look like a problem in layman's view. However, there is another problem, which is that it destroys the predictability of the tax system, and when the tax system is not predictable, then the inflow of investment becomes highly questionable. What this solution would do is that there would be a direct impact on the standard of citizens, on the inflow of investments, on the operations of companies that already exist and on what I mentioned earlier, predictability of the tax system, which may be the most serious consequence, because it has a long-term character. It may have been possible to reach out to some braver measures when projectioning this rebalancing budget, mostly on the bulky side of the budget, but it seems to me that the application of such measures would have very bad consequences, especially for those of the poorest citizens, and I would say that at this point it was simply unacceptable. Finally, a few words on structural reforms accompanied by the 2013 Budget Rebalancing Proposal, given that these measures have received a positive assessment of both the expert public and the IMF and the Fiscal Council, I would say there is not much reason to hold on to them too much. Of course, we remain to see to what extent these measures will be implemented, that is, to which all announced measures will be realised, but I say, even the Fiscal Council has shown relative optimism against this, so I believe that optimism is fully established. Let me just list the measures: the strict control of public sector earnings and the rationalisation of the number of employees, the completion of the restructuring process and the introduction of order in the business of public enterprises and the introduction of a grey economy to a more acceptable extent. The SDPS parliamentary group would also have several suggestions for the promoter. In the first place, we believe that in the future we should seek a fairer solution to the increase in wages and pensions, which would be appreciated in our society by large social differences. This system of percentage increase in income seems to me not very fair, because it increases salaries more for those who have more, and in a small amount increases salaries for those who have lower incomes or pensions, which practically only increases these social differences. The idea of increasing all receipts by the same amount, therefore at an absolute amount, or a higher percentage increase in lower incomes compared to higher income rates, seems to us to be fairer. Also, I would say that it is worth the attention and suggestion given by the Fiscal Council, which came up with the idea of introducing a one-time solidarity tax, which would tax pensions and salaries higher than a certain amount at a rate of 10%. I have to agree with some colleagues from some parliamentary groups, let's say from the PUPS parliamentary group, that there should be some corrections up there, in terms of the lowest level of income that is not taxed. So, 25 thousand pensions, it seems to me it's a little too low and those pensions shouldn't be taxed. It would have to be raised to some higher level, which could be discussed. To conclude, the SDPS parliamentary group will support the draft budget rebalances with follow-up measures in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19872	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19873	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the honourable representatives of the government, when you analyze a copy of the bank of an imaginary citizen of the X, you can probably conclude a lot about that person and you can guess who it's about. If we were to do the same hypothetically with the Serbian budget and imagine that it was a physical person, we could draw certain conclusions. We could conclude that this person must be drinking a lot, even more smoking, driving a car that costs a lot, which is foreign and used, bad health, no money for drugs, no sport, and the theater doesn't interest him at all. He's got a wide-use store, but he's also getting a pension. He doesn't plan to go to school anymore, he doesn't like to pay customs, he has relatives abroad who send him money, there's land in the country, but that country's in the parlogum. Although the country's relatives continue to support him when there is no money, since he came to Belgrade, he forgot about them. It's heating up on gas or electricity. She doesn't pay for it, and she hates it to lay a furnace on coal. He's in debt wherever he can, and most of all he's in with the greeners. He's playing games, he likes to talk on the phone. When guests from abroad come to him, he likes to show up, so he honors them wherever they come in, hoping to invest in his business. All he has is mostly inherited, although he hasn't painted the apartment in 30 years. He got divorced five times. He's got three kids. For two he pays child support, and three he supports. The neighbors don't like it, though he likes it when they shop at his place. He likes guns and he's got too much. He was president of the House Council, and now he hopes to meet the date, so he will elect him to the City Assembly and for that reason buys a new suit and learn English.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19874	Mr. Stojsic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19875	Now it's going to get one context. As you can see, public finances are largely a mirror of what happens to someone or to the state, in this case, and can also be a mirror, but they can also be an instrument. A year ago, we talked about this same budget and big changes were announced. What happened in the meantime? VAT was raised, funds were seized by local self-government. There's nothing since the department. Public enterprises continue to run party personnel mainly, and we see that we have about a billion euros in losses. Subsidy still failed giants. Incentives are largely continued for investments to be divided politically. The growth could be 2%. Some major reforms have nothing to do with it. This situation with the Serbian Ways is a big example that you can hardly push into order and those companies where there should be full control, although we can finally see that the burden of it will still be on the citizens when the toll is raised. I'm sure they'd have to make some unpopular moves. I would agree here with one of the colleagues who stated that it is absolutely necessary for your coalition partners to attend these talks. When you have 40% support in the electoral body, then you take some unpopular moves, you might have 30%. When you have 5% or 6%, then you lose 10%, then you have minus five. We talked and suggested things. If there's anything to be done, I'm sure he can. Instead of winning public enterprises being eight billion, as far as it's going to be here, it could be eight hundred billion, of course, if a comprehensive reform of these public enterprises that I see you announcing here is being implemented, but it's just not said how. As long as party interests prevail in front of what should be in balance. I really don't think that's gonna happen. The reform of the financial sector, I mentioned it in some previous exhibitions, it's not good that foreign banks have a big impact on monetary policy, and I think it's largely a case here, especially since we officially don't have a fixed course, but it's still less, more controlled for reasons that I wouldn't be going in right now. Such a situation corresponds extremely to foreign lenders, foreign investors and those who participate in the capital market here, i.e. buying state records because then in euro, their profits will not be devalued, given that interest rates are as large as they are. We also suggested exploiting potentials such as state land. This may not be so much a topic for you, but you will agree that 400,000 ha of agricultural land currently serves nothing but to be issued in very strange ways to local self-government. We suggested that a state fund be formed to solve it. More than a billion euros could be collected for a farm that needs it over, not that whenever growth is predicted in Serbia is seen in the sky and it is more important that you are a meteorologist than that you are an economist because it will rain or it will not rain less, it depends more on whether we will have economic growth in this country. In terms of this, it would probably be more useful for the Serbian government to hire some or some Indian shamans so that they call for rain and fire tens of thousands of people who work in the ministries, since there is obviously nothing out of it. To come to a level of growth of 5% or 7%, such as growth in countries that are at GDP per capita level, I don't think we can do this with a budget like this. You stated that some surrounding countries have a slight recession, but I don't think we can really compare with Slovenia or Croatia that have three or five times the GDP per capita. We can compare ourselves with some African countries that are on the level that we are on. I have to quote Professor Rabbit who said he doesn't see the point of selling 21st-century businesses like Telecom and investing in 19th-century business like mining. That idea gave up on time. We hear again that budget holes are going to be patched up by selling what's most valuable, and I hope Telecom doesn't end up as some other public enterprises like NIS that are suddenly extremely profitable, and it couldn't have been when it was 100% state-owned. It would be extremely important for Vojvodina to finally get the right budget, not for the transfer of funds to meet the form, given that money is currently being transferred for competencies that do not exist and which are invented and we do not have a budget that can seriously be in the development function, especially agriculture, because we believe that in certain segments of the Vojvodina economy it would have to stimulate certain branches of the economy itself because there are certain specificities. Agriculture and traffic are first. The world is currently having a big debate, which you probably know very well whether the austerity measures are good today or not. I think an economic policy that does not allow growth only corresponds to these structures that I have cited, which are foreign investors, foreign creditors and importers. She can't possibly be good. The question is great – is it when the foreign borrowing price is at an extremely low level, you see the eurobor, and in America too, which is below 1%, that our country is in debt on the interest on which it works? We have a smaller, more fixed course. We have high interest rates. We have a restrictive fiscal policy and so on. Kraunging out by the state because mostly banks prefer to borrow state and local self-government and economy cannot possibly reach the funds. I think it's one of the bigger problems, but since the governor isn't here, that might be a question for her, because fiscal policy without monetary policy I think is hard to get results. All in all, the rebalancing is an extortional move. We'll probably see each other again in six months, so we'll tell these same stories again. But when we see maybe a development budget or some substantial reform on the bulky side of the budget, which is now gone, of course we'll always support it. As far as the Vojvodina is concerned, what is promised is not fulfilled, which is that the law on funding the authority of Vojvodina will be passed and that this issue will be resolved without any politicisation, rallying, etc. It also didn't happen, so when we see your efforts going in that effort, we'll support it, and until then LSV won't vote for rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19876	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we're continuing our work at 3:55 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19878	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are expected and represents a face-to-face face with reality for a parliamentary group of NS rebalancing budgets, as the government of the Republic of Serbia faces all real problems in a very objective way for the last year. On the one hand, we have positive economic indicators, because there is an economic growth of about 2-3%, especially in the first four months of this year, we also have larger exports, which also increased by around 24% in the first four months, and on the other hand the budget is recording a deficit due to tax incentives and subsidies intended for the economy, and revenues are not expected. It is more than clear that budget revenues have been overestimated at the moment, and on the basis of overestimated revenues, much higher spending has been expected. The budget rebalancing suggests that some revenue sides are still overrated, in the first place non-tax revenues, and that with a sharp cost control can be additionally saved. The savings will also allow a significantly lower budget deficit for this year, as estimated, of 150.3 billion dinars, which would account for 4.7% of GDP and less than previously projected 177 billion dinars. You have mentioned several times, Mr. Minister, that one of the economic measures that you have predicted under this budget was a reduction in wages. I agree with my colleagues from the ruling coalition that such measures should not have come, because one negative effect would have been created among Serbian citizens, especially with pensioners. And for a reason, because every reduction in wages and pensions creates fear among citizens, but I agree with the fact that they are paid in the administration and the public sector in line with economic wages. What is most important in this budget rebalance, public finances will be put under control, with estimated 38 billion dinar savings. It is also very important that this budget rebalance will prevent the rapid growth of public debt and public debt crisis, with all the consequences resulting. One of the key measures envisioned by this rebalance for the recovery of the Serbian economy is the Action Plan for the restructuring of public enterprises. The plan envisions finding a solution for 179 enterprises that are more than 10 years in restructuring and which, according to World Bank estimates, make a loss of 750m euros annually, not only through subsidies, but also because they do not pay for electricity, water and other costs. I must say that I was unpleasantly surprised when I found on the Institute of Economic and Legal Expertism site that these 170 public enterprises in Serbia with more dependent societies owe 5.2 billion euros in total. The restructuring can't go on indefinitely. It can't be an excuse to keep trustees from billing their claims. That is why I would like to ask the question – how is it possible to mention 282 companies, meaning 176 companies and this part of the companies in restructuring make an annual income of only 1.6 billion euros, showing net losses in that year of 618m euros, and that suppliers, the state, owe 5.2 billion? I will consider it a great success both of the ministry and of this government if it manages to resolve the restructuring that has been going on in Serbia for 12 years, in such a way that one part of these companies will get strategic partners, the other part of which are doing positive business to remain state-owned and the third group of these companies to go bankrupt. That, in my opinion and the opinion of my colleagues from the NS parliamentary group, would be a great success of this government, with the fact that 56,823 workers are working in these companies and that a social programme is envisaged for them. As part of the total revenues based on the current situation, tax revenues in 2013 are lower than originally planned for 75.6 billion, then from excise duties by 16 billion, from VAT revenues are less than projected by 30 billion. This information speaks of a really serious and difficult situation in Serbia's economy. It is very important to say that such a financial situation has been inherited, that the Serbian economy was in recession in 2012, that you are paying back the debts that have been taken under very unfavourable conditions, so that part of the savings foreseen by the reduction of expenditure in the public sector from 266,2 to 263,6 billion are justified, as well as the reduction of subsidies primarily related to interest-banks. Private and foreign banks from the budget form revenues, then our citizens and businesses take these loans at high interest rates and I think it is finally really time to introduce a situation in this area, through a stimulating monetary policy and selective low-interest loans that will be controlled by dedicated lending now subsidized production. In this way, if we succeed in introducing order in subsidies, especially to private and foreign banks that generate high incomes in this way, I think the budget will be very relieved. In my opinion, this budget is about two more measures, and it's about Article 93. and Article 93b, which provides for the control of overtime and bonuses, introduces a public sector employee register from July 31st and plans to centralised one-stop-shop payment as of January 1st, as already done in Croatia several years ago and where 10% savings have already been made. I must say that the Fiscal Council with these measures is also very pleased and their assessment is that in the public sector in the Republic of Serbia, around 550,000 workers are employed, which is largely fuelled by lack of control in employment, and this register should allow more effective control of new employment, provide better insight into the structure of employees, as well as the real need for new staff. If the government succeeds in reducing the administration by registering first all those who are on the payroll of municipalities, ministries, public institutions, in order to know exactly how many schools, ministries or any institution will have permanent employees or temporary employees or under contract and then, after that record, reduce unnecessary expenditures and if you manage to make an analysis of how many people in the administration are really needed, and to encourage production in Serbia after these measures, that the job in the state services will no longer be as attractive as it is now, I will believe that this government has managed to take an important step in the economic development of the country. You also agreed on measures to improve the investment climate through the announced amendments to the Labour Act and the Law on Planning and Construction, as well as measures to promote economic growth. I believe that all colleagues will agree with me that the development of Serbia's economy is due-consequently linked to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. A large number of people, Serbian citizens today are afraid to open an agency, STR, to start agricultural production due to uncertainty. I have to say that my friends last year sold an apartment at Vracar to be somewhere in the area of Prokuplje, on the land they had, began to produce raspberries. Today they have neither the production of raspberries nor that apartment. I would like to point out a few more things, and above all, Article 27a of the Budgetary System Act, which I think is very important because of the consolidation of the budget. The proposed change changes the dynamics of the projected indexation of pensions and wages in the public sector, starting in October of this year, throughout the following year, with a view to the stability of public finances. The net effect of the new indexation should be some 0.3% of the gross social product, and the attitude of the 30th member is also changed in a way that suggests that the same fiscal rules governing wage and pension developments apply after 2015. I also believe that, in terms of raising the general level of fiscal discipline, a good solution proposed by Article 68a, which prescribes the responsibility of the beneficiaries of the budget for proper planning, is in line with the dynamics of implementation, i.e. the outcome, expenditure to finance the participation of the Republic of Serbia, so that budgetary users, according to this article, also have to reroute funds from other expropriations or programmes, which is very important and I believe that control in this area is also very important. I will end up with the fact that the introduction of a new member of 54a, which regulates the procedure and obligation to evaluate capital projects, is very important because today in Serbia, a small percentage of the implemented projects is low. The reason for this is that there is an unreal planning by the users of the budget, and I expect that the adoption of sublegal acts will bring the content of the capital project closer together and establish criteria for assessing and setting priorities for capital projects. In all, I hope that the effect of the proposed legislative solutions will be a significant savings not only in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also in the whole public sector. I expect that these changes will also have a positive impact on the responsible behaviour of the beneficiaries of the budget and the management of public finances, which will help to strengthen macroeconomic stability and increase the credibility of macroeconomic policy over the longer term. This concludes and I would like to inform you, Mr. Minister, that in the day for the vote, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19879	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nenad Popovic. Here you go. You weren't reported. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19880	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, let's try to be serious about this issue and be responsible and in such a way make a difference between the atmosphere that is dominant in our society, not only in situations where the economic crisis is being discussed, but in all other situations where we face the effects of the mistakes that are made in continuity. As I was preparing to discuss budget rebalancing, I took one document stating everything our party's MPs had said in the previous discussions on budget rebalancing for 2012 and the debate on the 2013 draft budget. Everything that has been our criticism to you and your government, time has confirmed. Among other things, on 23 November 2012, we, Mr Dinkic, said that this budget would not last for the next six months. This does not mean that here in the parliamentary benches there are people who have more knowledge than those who run the World Bank or the IMF or the Fiscal Council, but that practically here in our parliamentary group you have MPs who do not want to compromise with the kind of policy that unfortunately has a crucial impact on all society's efforts to solve such huge problems as those that led to the budget rebalancing debate for 2013. If the Budget Law is the most important law passed by one parliament, what can we conclude about the government that only you represent during the debate on the economic policy that this country is conducting? What are more important questions for all of your colleagues, for your president, the vice-presidents of the government, people who, together with you, would have to answer not our questions, but all those hotspots that are filled with everyday life in the country, what is most clearly seen in the economics sphere? You have projected a budget deficit for 2013 at around 120 billion. Now you're correcting it, you're coming out with an estimate that it's going to be up by 50 billion and it's going to move around 170. The fiscal council says 200. The International Monetary Fund is dating some serious deficits. Let's first get an answer to the question from you, Mr Dinkic -- why do we spend more than we create, or why so little does our country even produce on this plan? I think it's a question of the quality of society organization. All of what you mentioned in 50 minutes of your conversation with us is actually a description of the current state. There are no serious measures, Mr. Dinkic, and it can't be, because the precondition of seriousness is teamwork of the entire government. Are you, as finance and economy minister, as you talk about restructuring companies, which are the problem of our society, you can do anything without reforming labour legislation and whether there is a change in the likelihood that you will be successful in this business where you are now going, if your reform falls at the first step, and that is the right of an appraisal assessor based on your government's demands, an assessment of the assets of the company in restructuring, frightened by the experiences of other appraisals, which then leads us to a paradox that the company, which the vice president of the Nenad Popovic Assembly bought while working in 2006 or 2007, paid 500,000 euros, and after five years of bankruptcy, or collapse in restructuring, comes at a price of 5 million? What are you going to do? It's an economy. What are we gonna do about bankrupt companies? How many do we have? How many people are down there because they're hostages to these failed systems? Can we talk to the ministry responsible for bankruptcy legislation, to liberalise it and thus unblock the sector of our economy? What about tax reform? It is not, Mr. Dinkic, tax reform, I suppose, what you allege every day as your sole duty, which is tax collection. From tax reform, we, as citizens, should have some benefit. The tax reforms that were being insisted on so far were tax reforms that carried the burden of problems on those still standing on their feet and doing something. It's nice that the Prime Minister brought together the businessmen who support him in his economic policy one weekend, I wouldn't comment on them, but it seems to me that a few days ago, a club of businessmen, who employs more than half a million workers in this country, organized their annual gathering and there was no one there, including yourself. Is that our government's answer and is there room for that kind of partnership without which no economic problem can be solved? If you're looking for an example, see what Angela Merkel did in Germany in 2008. Then, our unions and the role of the union in the economy. Where is the minister who deals with this policy and where is the space for that kind of deal that would allow us, for example, to solve those problems that cannot be solved without the consent and willingness of the union president? Between the budget debates, tax reform and rebalancing, you launched the Ironzar in Smederev. You know how long it's been. When we see your budget rebalance, then based on the trends that exist now, we can conclude that this is the budget that will ensure the functioning of the state in the next few months, but certainly not by the end of the year. So much more, we view this budget rebalancing as a pre-election project of the ruling coalition, and much less there is a strategic approach, which is so much talked about in all the events in which our public is being deceived as in any other situation. I don't know if you're aware that your government's economic policy is at the positions of Carlobag, Karlovec, Virovitica and Ogulin? Meanwhile, those who drew those borders ended up in Zagreb, which joined the EU. What segment of budget rebalancing can we seriously talk about? Did we get to this position because you didn't want to do anything? I think that's the question you have to answer, too. Who's stopping pension fund reform? We don't ask pensioners to cut pensions, we think they earned them, but we also know that money was spent. We just want to get an answer to the question - can the pension fund be managed by professional management? Can we get an answer to the question - why is it that only Serbia in Europe, in the region, compared to Bosnia, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, has such a retrograde organisation of the pension fund? Can we get an answer to the question why he's so inhumane, so he treats someone who's retired at 50 and receives a pension and he's doing a parallel job and someone who's been working for up to 65? Are there such examples of a pension fund organisation anywhere in the region or in modern Europe? There aren't any. Why does it matter? Because it's down to over two billion euros. When it comes to the organisation of health care, you're talking about the restructuring of the Galenika. Who torpedoed you in an attempt to find new owners for Galenika? Who drove away the only interested buyer? What's the price of all this? We can't teach every lesson in that evening politics school. It cost us dearly to understand in 2013 what normal people knew in the 1990s. It cost us too much. We can't behave like that in 2013. It is true that GDP growth has been observed, but if you build a view on the quality of economic policy being conducted, then you begin to look like what you criticised before October 2000. Remember how we talked about the incredible takeoff of our economy and GDP growth, because we started out of the black hole after the bombing. It is true that it is good that our auto-industry is exported, but can we see what the concept of Serbia's development is? Did we say agrarian? Did we say energy? What's going on on that plan? We're talking about privatizing Resavice. What about all the other resources that are not used? What about the country in Serbia? Where are the effects of the agreements that were made and announced during the autumn of 2012? Billions arriving from Russia, and then this big deal that was made with investors from Abu Dhabi? I don't mind, every investor is absolutely welcome, but was there anything we could do to get to the first results? We're past agrarian season. So we're talking about 2014. What's this time of ours look like? We're postponing the solution again. We're not ready to bring any key solution. When it came to reform labour legislation, workers were least thought of firing. But I have to ask you something – did we have a good labour law? I think so, in 2001, we passed a good Labour Act. We've been negotiating for 12 hours with union representatives. Who changed that law in 2004? Well, the parties sitting in government today. Can we say it was a mistake? It's not just about firing workers, at least that's what I mean. Let's just say, I mean the obligation to sign a collective contract. Where else is that? In what economy in Europe does such a thing exist, that an employer must sign a collective contract? Why is that done? Because in Serbia, it remains the orientational model of an organisation in which the government is the one on which everyone living is dependent. You have to make changes on that plan. What are the government's instruments of action in crisis? There's not one here. Is the problem with our inflation economy? Can we say we have an inflation rate target? If we say that public enterprises are the problem, we'll finally agree on that, but how do we respond to that problem? So by breaking the law that you've passed here, we've made it a better quality amendment, you've accepted the amendments and then voted for it. Is it applied, is that law respected? He doesn't respect. So what will the Government say to us – we will take care of public enterprises and violate our own law? What kind of government is that? Do you know a serious man here in the congregation who would give something to these people to manage it? There's nothing like this about public enterprises. That's enough of an EPS case for you. The minister is asking for someone to report to the competition and it's not there, because no one seriously wants to take part in it anymore. We need a political change, a turnaround, so let's see how far we've come. Unfortunately, there's no room. Why did everyone escape to the public sector? Because there are other rules in it. Half a million people are out of work, but in the private sector. That private sector is still holding ground. Can anyone say that here in parliament? You're talking about construction. Do you also know a construction company in Serbia that is not marked as a criminal? I don't know any. Well, we destroyed the Energy Project ourselves. The first Deputy Prime Minister goes to Bor, so he's surprised that the Canadians waited for him and there's no one from Serbia. Of course there isn't when there's strangers like a flea market. The local building inspector suspends the works of the Energy Project, so they complain to the second-degree authority, and that's the government, so on the Board of Government, the appeal is accepted, but then magically stripped at the government's agenda session, so the Energy Project can't do the melting room, and the Canadians, who are the supervisory authority, are sitting there because they can't come home, they don't know what's going on in this country that they've come to. Why did someone call them to sit there unemployed? It is a description of what Vukic saw in Bor, not the wish of Serbs to live in harmony with philosophy – no one can pay me as little as I can do. No, it's a catastrophic organization. Infrastructure. Serbian roads depend on where some oak is. If there's a tree on the way, there's no road. It's true that we're in charge of four billion and there's this project funding. Where are the projects? They're gone. Say, we have four billion on one side, on the other side we don't have projects, we're gonna hire people, we're gonna make projects. Is that what you do? It's not working. We were able to see the prime minister in Zagreb in the stands, go to Ban Jelačić, or what is the absolute opposite, to go to Usce on Friday night, and then pantomime with him to agree with him, since it was too loud music. Maybe it's better that way. What would we be talking about here with Hansel Dacic? About these questions? He solved his problem. I didn't want to make you laugh, but okay, you need to laugh, there's no point in crying here. How are we gonna handle this? There's a order of moves we need to make. You have to take it back. Here is a key matter of time, it's the only resource we don't have. We don't have it anymore. Was there an attitude to sell Telecom? Then we started out as sawmills at the market, and we don't like the price anyone would give. I'm sorry, what we get by privatizing Telecom isn't just money that's going to be paid into the budget, so someone in the election campaign can build their Podokin villages, but I guess some new management, a business philosophy that's different, a new business climate is being created, someone will see that people have come, invested in that country and will follow their business logic. That's why we need public sector privatisation. Is that what we decided? We didn't. It's not popular. All right. But then it all ends up falling apart. We've had this opportunity once before. How are we going to defend our policy and financial stability? In what way? Last week, June 25th, you sold state papers with a 7% contribution. Correct me if I'm wrong, what was the offering? We sold a quarter of the paper. Nobody buys that anymore. Berlusconi resigned when the ekamata was 7% on Italian charters. We've gone from four to seven percent, at least that's what people who do the job say. I didn't sit in some office where that decision was made, but that's what they say. It's a description of the sustainability of our economic system. We're here together. You've been refusing to accept some rules for a year. When I read this, someone else would be frustrated. Since we have already learned these lessons, we can, when we realize that Nikolic can listen to Josipovic on the piano, then everything in Serbia is tolerable, so we can understand. I don't know what to tell you after what it says here. I thought these were the thesis of our parliamentary group for today's debate. But this is what we told you on November 23, 2012. Just remove the date and you can repeat everything. Nothing can be done in this unserious atmosphere. That's what the problem is. It's not a Serbian economy but your job. All right, you're doing it. How are we going to change these simplest points? What are you going to do with Mr Popovic's company, which the appraiser has now estimated to be five million after five years of standing? What are we gonna do about it? What are you going to do with "November 29th" in Subotica, with "Srem-Shid", with "Mitros", with hundreds of factories that are in restructuring and bankruptcy, that are failing? (President: Time. ( b) Answer these questions no longer because I do not know which language to speak. This is a list of beautiful desires that are already a nightmare. No one believes in this anymore, not even the people in your government. They say - Dinkic, he rags until October as you know and can. That's obvious. That's why they're not here, because that's not where they get political points, it's what they get on other sides, but here they don't. The country with the highest unemployment rate, with the highest inflation, with unconstitutional public debt growth, with 50% of the functionally illiterate population, with a compromised education system, with a destroyed pension system, a non-functional health system, is not a country. It's a minefield in which someone is neither guilty nor obliged to put himself in a position to survive. (President: Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, 21 minutes. I hope you can make some argument, so we can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19881	Minister Dinkic has his word. Minister Dinkic wants to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19882	I have to start by saying that I agree with some of your findings, but I don't agree with the general approach that nothing is right and that now everything needs to be done from the beginning. A constructive approach is to find out what's wrong and what's wrong and attack what's wrong and change it. I know that rarely who, when this government was formed, and probably most of all your parliamentary group, believed that Serbia would get the first year of its term of office to start pre-defensive negotiations with the EU, based on what they called a bold agreement between Belgrade and Pristina, and that happened, as most are probably now skeptical of whether these reforms that have been delayed in the public sector for ten years will now be implemented. You have every right to doubt. You have every right to doubt because something that hasn't been carried out for ten years shouldn't be talked about forever until you see that it's been carried out. We'll see each other here in a year's time, because in a year's time, we're going to do these reforms, and then I'm going to talk about these things a lot more openly. You mentioned some things I agree with. As you know, bankruptcy legislation, unfortunately, is not right for us, but not only because the Ministry of Economy did not make a good law, but also because we have such a system that the Constitutional Court has thrown out the most important provisions of this law concerning the automatic bankruptcy procedure. For what reason? It's not clear to me until today. Obviously, then the Constitution isn't good, because why throw out an automatic bankruptcy? If someone isn't able to pay for two years of their commitment, it's normal to launch a bankruptcy. If they can have developed Western countries as a system, I don't know why it's not possible in Serbia? I'm not a lawyer and I don't understand why it's been deleted, but it's now caused a problem in what you see, the problem of bankruptcy legislation. The original law has been amended by the Constitutional Court. I'm not going into those decisions, but definitely, they're probably legally valid, but they're economically wrong. As far as tax reform is concerned, we have started tax reform, abolished even at the beginning of the 138 parafiscal mandates, on the proposal of a number of businessmen, organisations dealing with it, from NAED to some others, and, of course, passed a law by which we abolish the paperwork in the work of the tax administration from mid next year. Since mid-Next year, everyone will be obliged to electronically submit reports to the tax administration. So we're going to transfer people from the counter, they've been working on counters for tens of years, they're buried with a bunch of paper, we're going to remove these papers, and we're going to make it possible to strengthen the inspection service. I agree with you in one, the organization was the weakest link in decades and now in the state administration. It's precisely because of the atmosphere of negativity created from all sides, no one seriously, as you said, is going to work now, nor has anyone reported to the EPS director's competition, given what kind of atmosphere is generally created. Everyone's running from the state administration, actually. Those who are the best of quality work in the private sector. I've never had any problems, nor do I have a problem saying what you say, that it is the private sector that creates a new value and that the public sector can't live well if it's bad in the private sector. That's what I've always said, and I've never had any problems here. It is these reforms that we are now implementing that should enable, on the one hand, savings in the public sector in order for the private sector to develop faster, in order to indirectly help the public sector to be better too. You ask - when will the first results of the announced big investments? You know yourself that in the economy, especially when it comes to serious investment, results cannot be seen within a short time frame. And a year is a short time for that. I've already mentioned an example of the Fiat, where the first effect is seen only after four years, from the moment the contract was concluded. You'll see the effects and investments from Abu Dhabi in the second half of this year, one by one. As for China, too, we will now have the signing of a contract to finance the construction of a highway on Corridor 11, because it is very important to create a highway that will give a chance to western Serbia, but that realization of any project will take time to do so. There was a skepticism, and when the deal was made with Azerbaijan, and today everyone tells me that the Azerbaijani are doing great on this trip from Ligia to Chačka, the problem is that there are no more of our companies that can get involved. You are right that our construction is indeed ruined and a good part of the guilt is borne by the very state that has negotiated with the builders and some projects that are under impossible conditions, where the builders have agreed to pay them within three years for the work they are doing in the current year. It was quite clear that from the very beginning such a thing is not real and a whole series of companies today are in trouble. It is a matter of management, but I have to tell you, in the case of the Energy Project, it's still specific, the state doesn't have a control role there. You know it's a stock company, it's that the state has a significant package but with the governance issue, it's not always the state that can take care of everything, and the only question is whether the state should get out of the company completely and leave it to the private sector. We can discuss this. Everyone here has their own opinion. I do not agree either that we are not leading a responsible public debt policy because this government and I as finance minister have inherited a serious burden of interest from the previous period which is four times larger than five years ago and already a serious leap in public debt and starting position, regardless of how much the budget deficit must be provided at the start only to pay for the debt from the past and then to add the money that needs to be provided for financing the current deficit. Even so, if you look from New Year's Eve to the end of May, soon the data will come out for June, public debt is at an absolute minimum of 18.9 euros, and now it's 18.9 euros in GDP, and in terms of GDP, it's even slightly lower and it's 56% when we talk about the level of the Republic without a place, with a bar it's a little more. I agree with all those who say that a sustainable public debt policy can only be achieved with a reduction in the budget deficit. Probably through funding part of the budget deficit, not from new borrowings, but from a partial sale of assets. During this time, for less than a year, with my associates, I've done everything I can to relieve the state of such a debt. We've paid off half the debt to the London Club prematurely. It is true that in June of the month following the change in federal reserve policy, the US Central Bank Governor announced that he would no longer finance the US economy in the way it has been done in the last few years, that they had gone wild within a short period of interest rates on financial markets for all countries. That's true and that's the fact that we have to see as a serious threat and we do. That is why we have also entered into negotiations with the World Bank on a financial arrangement in support of these structural reforms that we want to implement now because we have also designed them together. Today, we talked to Mr. Vanrompe about whether we could possibly count next year, not in this and on the EU's macro-financial support. We have opened pre-accession negotiations and it would be natural for the EU to support us with appropriate macro-financial support. In any case, you're right to say that evaluators in Serbia, it's a big question whether they are good at assessing the value of some property because the only market can actually assess what something costs and that many people are scared of everything that happens, not just in the current period but years ago, and no one obviously wants to take responsibility for themselves and everyone gives credit for prices that are not normal at all. That's why we introduced this method that if no one answers the price of a 100% asset, then it automatically goes down to 50% on the same day, so if no one wants to offer that 50% then it goes to 30% of the value of the estimated asset. If there's no one interested in it, then it goes bankrupt and then the property is simply sold through bankruptcy. I won't be talking for long because I want to give you more space, so I think you need to give support to that part of the measure that I assume you believe is good, you don't have to give it now, when I'm talking about restructuring and ending the restructuring of state-owned enterprises. I agree with you that it's a very bad thing that, you yourself said torpedoed the only interested, serious buyer for Galenika. It's probably what the unions did when they didn't know what they were doing, the unions of the same Galenics themselves. This does not mean that the cost of past losses will not have to be paid all together, and most literally that price will be paid by one part of the employees now at Galenica, which is essentially excess, technologically in the process because some thousands of people have been employed there in the last few years past any economic logic. So Galenika will not survive if the number of employees is unrealised at a maximum of 1,300 and even existing salaries do not comply with the company's real costs so that it can have profitable business and if it wants to make development. He has great equipment, even the government at the time of Vojislav Kostunica, I was then the finance minister, we helped introduce the latest standards in Galenica, the latest technology was purchased. It's a great factory with a good programme, then it's got 100m euros in revenue, now it's 50. She was 40 and something, and now she's got about 50 million max. The problem of unpaid claims over the Velefarm scandal and the VG Farm as large-scale drugs that went bankrupt and never paid them what they delivered in drugs, that one thing. The second thing is unsustainable business with huge surplus employees who did not exist in 2006 when we invested in equipment, it happened during the term of office of the previous government. So we are aware that this situation in Serbia as well as everywhere in Europe is extremely difficult, and with us especially because we have a problem that is decades longer. Whoever wants to help us make the changes you're talking about and the turn you're talking about, as far as I'm concerned, is more than welcome, if you ask me, I'd like to see you even formally in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19883	Thank you. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19884	Okay, let me answer to you as Milan Beko on the Kopalnik – and for less things went to prison in Serbia. Let me tell you, it's more like axes are going to fall than it's going to happen, but the axes are going to fall, at least it's not a dispute. First of all, we've never been involved in politics so that our policy differs from that of the majority. We have formulated politics with the ambition to accept others. Don't get me wrong, I'm happy that today your government is largely, even though it is in principle standing in the positions that we have long been formulating, I'm just worried about that amount of ex-post mind that is present in every other segment of your political life, whether or not we have to lose 20 years in the economy as we have lost in Kosovo's resolution. We never said that everything is black and we absolutely agree, let's say that with the increase in tax discipline, we have nothing against it, but you know where the problem is. The problem is that we are discussing here and we have the ambition to convince citizens that they are obliged to pay taxes, that they are obliged to understand that they are bound by the fact that they live in the city center, not in some suburban settlement while the "Serb Roads" say -- so we will not pay taxes. Then you say they have to pay, and the whole government sits and says, let's agree that they pay taxes by raising the toll price for the amount of tax. They don't pay for Serbian Ways, they pay for all of us. It's not tax reform, tax reform is paying its own bill and everyone needs to do it. You mentioned a lot, the essence of solving the economic crisis, is not in finding one move that will be removed. It's a process and we don't see him here. It must be a common place for each of us here in the congregation, and to differ in the speed and ability of reaching that goal. That is why Croatia is in the EU today, and we are not, which never half of Serbia could go to Europe, while the other half was against it or while we were divided, as well as in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19885	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19886	Just one explanation about "The Way of Serbia". So, "Serbian Roads" are now going to account for VAT on toll, without the amount of toll being increased. So how is that possible? By having to do a detailed analysis first, what will be the return of the VAT "Serb Roads" on the basis of contracts they have with road maintenance contractors, as it can be seen that they will have a higher VAT refund than they will be obliged to pay the state. When one such analysis is made, you will see exactly what the net situation is for them. By then, the government will not even consider any agreement on the increase in toll prices, as "Serbian Roads" will account for 20% of VAT, but will also refuse VAT when paying for invoices from its suppliers, or construction firms working on the works. That's all I wanted to say, calculating VAT on toll, by "The Way of Serbia", does not mean an increase in the price of toll.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19887	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19888	Of course, the government is now trying to extend the decision it will make to some maneuvers. What about the debt, Mr. Dinkich? They were obliged to pay taxes, they were a taxpayer and they didn't do it. Now look at these companies in bankruptcy, you mention them, and some of them are in bankruptcy because of the tax debt. What about the tax debt? Is someone going to answer, I'm talking about 200 million, maybe even more, euros, and here we're doing budget rebalances. MPs participate in ad hoc campaigns and raise money to send someone to treatment. It's not the system, it's the right decision. We don't allow you to raise the price, get along, we'll run an analysis, and we'll see that there's money, but it's not a system. In every segment of public life, we do. The Minister of Education says, well, I'm not responsible for someone in the press taking the prom exam. We don't think he's a porter, but when the system doesn't work, then the first person in that system has to take responsibility for it. The glory, when it works. Is that why the prime minister is responsible? It's not. In an amazingly successful action, the police found some aunt who passed the exams. What does that look like? As the universities descend to the level – you go in, you come out, and you're done. We've banalized education, every kind of knowledge and intelligence, and that's why we have a problem with the country's governance. The budget rebalance, the one we're talking about today, is the last point, because after this, you no longer have the leverage. After this, there's no basis for your government. The passengers are announcing a strike. A strike is being announced tomorrow. It's not about our liquefying, we don't want it. We want to deal with people and tell them the truth, make a plan and work here, because that's the only way Serbia can transform and change. That's what you're denying us with this budget rebalance. Ad hoc individual measures, we agree, reduce subsidies to "railways" Serbia, but whether we can get serious management in the Railways or is a prerequisite for someone to be the director of the Railways and to discover in the 50th year what truffles are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19889	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19890	Dear Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, on the danger that we will be doing budget rebalances this year, we spoke in November and December. I think that at that time we were saying that the potential of income was overrated and that time would show that economic activity would drop, and that, that is, the increase in VAT and corporate income taxes would be compensated in a negative way, by the downturn in economic activity. The savings that seem to be this rebalancing are good and I think we all welcome them, but they're not enough for the budget to be completely balanced. We at the DSS believe that the foundations of the budget have been wrongly set since the beginning of last year, because we think agriculture is one of the basic branches, and the budget has been set at the potential of the EU accession foundation, and we know that since 2008, since the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have one process of reducing income from customs, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have free access to importers, agricultural producers, food producers on our market, where practically 70% of all agricultural products come to our market without customs duties. The entire EU budget is practically a agricultural budget, where most of the subsidies are given to farmers and their agricultural producers, food producers have subsidies that are up to 10 times larger than our agricultural producers and it is difficult to compete when we liberalise the market, when we liberalise it in 2008 in a unilateral application of the SAA. This wrong foundation is also a permanent paradigm that, surely, when we enter the EU, we will live better. I think that paradigm has changed since the economic crisis began. This tells us practically about crises in all EU countries. If we look from 1990 to 2008, the EU has had extraordinary growth, but other countries have also had growth. It also had China, it had Asian countries, it had Russia, it had African countries, it had growth, and it was one period of general economic growth. Now since 2008, this paradigm has changed, it doesn't guarantee any access, especially some date, it doesn't guarantee us that we will live better, even moreover, it's a big question, maybe we can and it's very real that we can live worse. Why? Because since 1 January 2014, we will have to fully open the market for all, for 100% agricultural and food products and will practically pour us into EU products, which are subsidized five to ten times as much. That's the negative side of this budget that has a European basis. It's positive, I can't hide it, and we supported it, so we support each of your ventures, diversifying external trade operations. We support, as far as China is concerned, the United Arab Emirates, as far as Russia, Azerbaijan. This approach should be applied and must be applied to the budget as well. We need to break up with that European paradigm. Of course, it's hard to talk about today, because every day we're closer to Europe, we're getting further than KIM, as a state, there's no theoretical chance that we have a successful economic development if we give up the works of our territory. There is no case in the world that someone gave up the works of their territory and that they had economic growth. As for the rebalancing, I will repeat, no one believed in total and projected revenue growth at that time in as much as 22.5% from 788 billion to 965 billion this year. I think it's one of the elements that's been completely overrated, that's this case with Jellyzar Smederevo. Exports were based on the "Fiyat" that came true, perhaps not to the extent that you planned, the NIS which may not have been achieved to that extent, but so did the Irons, but if you remember then we were talking, I most well thought for Jelizar I should think of a plan B. Of course, this is the first time in the history of modern public finances that the budget deficit in this normal year was bigger than in the election year, which may be interpreted as being this year's election. The dramatic increase in the budget deficit for the first five months of this year, compared to the same period last year, by more than 15 billion dinars, raises only the question of how we will manage to maintain the level of planned 177 billion dinars. Personally, I believe that the deficit will be greater than this figure, of 177 billion, and that maybe there will be as many as 200 billion dinars. I wish I was wrong. A total of 312 billion in the budget for the first five months. If we take it for months, the monthly average was 62 billion a month. Assuming that the budget does not increase by the end of the year, the total revenue will stop at 750 billion dinars, which is 100 billion dinars below what is foreseen by the rebalance. But, let's say, since we had a April that was a record month with 70 billion, if all months by the end of the year were on the level of April, the total revenues would again at the end of the year be less by about 50 billion dinars than planned by the rebalance. To conclude, in order for this one to be fulfilled, or in order to match the budget as planned by the rebalancing process, we have to have 23% more revenue in the budget by the end of the year than in the first five months. So every month has to be 25% higher. I'm expressing my strong suspicion that it's possible in all seven months. As for VAT and that increase from 18% to 20%, however, the result is reduced economic activity and a large share of the grey economy. I think that a huge number of companies, unfortunately, have gone to the gray economy and that will be a major challenge for all governments in the coming years. As for excise duties, a reduction of revenue from 233 to 217 billion is planned, but the impression is that this goal will also not be achieved. Why? Here, I'll take the first five months again. In the first five months of excise duties, 72 billion or 14.5 billion dinars were charged monthly. If we continue at this pace, as was the first five months, it will be 44 billion dinars or to translate into euro, about 400 million euros less than the rebalancing plan. In other words, we have to increase the inflow of excise duties over the next seven months by an incredible 43% above the average inflow of excise duties over the last five months, which means 43%. This also seems like an inexplicable venture to me. As far as profit tax revenues are concerned, there is a result of the deterioration of the situation in the economy and this is a real situation that is difficult to fix quickly. Of course, the income tax was overrated because it was originally planned to charge 55 billion dinars from income tax, which was an increase of 18.75 per cent. Of course, these revenues have been reduced to 48.7 billion dinars, but I am again expressing my suspicion that this will be achieved, because it implies an increase in this tax revenue, specifically 40%. As for the SAA and the drop in customs revenue, in 2008, we had 65 billion dinars from customs, and this year at best we'll have two times less, about 35 billion dinars. This is a direct loss from unilateral application, i.e. the signing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I'm going back to the European foundation of this budget. If we allowed the liberalisation and arrival of agricultural products, food products, logic was, since there are no customs duties, to reduce the price. This morning there's a big analysis in Politics, there's a good analysis, that our food prices have grown the most in the region. What do I mean? The liberalisation of the market will not contribute to a reduction in prices in 2014. Agricultural producers from the west will leave prices at exactly the same level or try to make extra profits. Only in strong competition, in very strong competition with domestic producers, agricultural and food producers, but which we must subsidise at least in some percentage of those, from these subsidies received by foreign producers, can there be a drop in the prices of food products for ordinary citizens, only in strong competition with domestic producers. That's why we need to reinvest in domestic production in every way possible. As for saving, the item I have the most criticism is saving on investment. This is what triggers domestic economy and reduces investments that have been used from somewhere around 18% since the beginning of the year, I find it totally unfair in relation to public spending, as public spending will be financed from these investments. Of these investments, businesses should work in municipalities, in cities, they may be small parts, but they are also vital to those small and medium-sized enterprises living in regions. I said it was 18, but so far only 14% of these projected 46 billion. The rebalancing of these 46 billion, which is why I'm most sorry, comes down to 36.2 billion. I think that's the key to this rebalancing. I would add, as far as the basics of this budget are concerned, it's a good example, we forget, we keep saying we have to go to the EU, we're all in the environment. When we mention Switzerland, they say – so it is rich, when we mention Norway they say – it is big and rich, when we mention Turkey they say – it is big, and here we have a recent example of Iceland. Iceland does not want to join the EU. Iceland got all the dates, Iceland started 27 chapters, opened 27 chapters, ended 11 chapters. Iceland now said in April, a few months ago, not the EU, that co-operation with the EU, as we speak from the DSS. Let us co-operate best on economic grounds, in the interest of everyone, but we simply have no interest now in going to the EU, especially because of agricultural producers, who are directly and indirectly in Serbia one million, one million people live directly and indirectly from agricultural production. Why did Iceland estimate that the EU is unnecessary for them? Because they said that agriculture was the most important thing to them. They said fishing was the most important thing for them. They said - we cannot accept what the EU is giving us in fishing. Fishing for Iceland means 12% of gross domestic product, 40% of its exports from Iceland are fishing and 15% are jobs. It's their basic profession. When they tell us – Iceland's small, they tell us we're small, so we have to. Iceland is even smaller so it won't go with the EU, and it's almost over. Iceland has 350,000 inhabitants. Simply, Iceland has estimated that its national-economic interests, and above all in fishing, are much more important to him than anything else with the EU. They often tell us as an argument – we export 58% of all products to the EU. It's true. But Iceland exports 78% to the EU and continues to decide not to go to the EU without leaving the best possible co-operation. Once again, I want to say that we fully support economic diversification, all of what you plan to do with the United Arab Emirates, with China, with Russia, etc. We think that these projects are of great importance to the domestic industry, especially for the dedicated industry. The dedicated industry can be one of the supporters of economic development in the coming years. The dedicated industry employs a large number of people, and more importantly, it is a large part of an intellectual supplement in every product that works for the dedicated industry. So we need all international partners who want to co-operate with Serbia, where we can achieve our economic interest. And these agreements with Russia and the Emirates are proof that even now that we are not even a member of the EU, we are not even on the road, we can have excellent co-operation in those segments. I think we need a new economic policy that will, as a basis, take diversify economic and national interests and I think that without this economic policy that will take into account, above all, the interests of the domestic economy will not be possible to make progress. In addition, Mr. Minister, this five-year programme that you have the opportunity to create and initiate must be accessible to a comprehensive public spending reform that includes public administration reform, public enterprises, health, education and pension system. After these difficult and painful steps, but I'm sure you'll have everyone's support if you really go into such a reform, only then can we get one budget that will be self-financed. I forgot to mention the Free Trade Agreement with Russia, which would also have to be the basis, for example. "Falke", which has invested an extraordinary example here, but should be noted that Falke practically 100% of its production exports to Russia and that it is basically what he invested here in Serbia precisely that free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. Once again, I would add that the economic programme must also be based on national dignity. Only the sovereign state with Kosovo and Metohija can achieve economic growth. I'm sure sooner or later we'll go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19891	National MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19892	The President-in-Office, honourable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is beyond any doubt that the current moment in the Republic of Serbia is characterized by a difficult financial situation under the conditions of our economy's strong dependence in the EU, which is also affected by a major financial crisis that does not recognise any universal solutions. On the other hand, the progress of our public debt has continued since 2008, when it was somewhere at 29% of GDP in 2011 at some level of 45% of GDP, to today's situation that is somewhere over 60% of GDP. Of course, no one has the right and cannot be satisfied with such a situation, nor is it exulting, and that is why the SPS really calls everything and requires one responsible state and general access to the public finance problem, because it is the money and financing of all of us, all political parties, all of us and the only such way of access to this problem that we can come up with a good and quality solution, especially in conditions where fiscal movements in the first five months speak and suggest bad estimates, especially when it comes to deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget and a possible projection that it is almost twice as planned and reach some level of 5.7 and 6.2, respectively, at a consolidated level of GDP. At the end of last year, and earlier, it is widely known that one of the main indicators of the state of the economy and public finances in the country is an indicator of the relationship between public debt and GDP, that the budget deficit is one of the main ones of the public debt crisis. To be honest, it is necessary to bring first of all into normal frameworks the state of the budget deficit that, in the event that this progress continues, can cause a public debt crisis, which means that the money of future generations would then be spent, in order for the interest to grow enormously. Such a crisis, and we have had the opportunity to see for ourselves in some other countries, leads to the destruction of the economy, security, health, social protection, education and everything that makes the state. The certainty of such a scenario would be if the emergency measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were not taken, and they are seen in one decisive and courageous turn, especially when it comes to budget rebalance, the follow-up of possible reforms. I want to say that this is a decision from the very beginning in the work of this government, determination and clear solutions to the status of Kosovo and Metohija, the fight against corruption, crime, European integration, the takeover of property from some banks that have been robbed. Such a plan by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to limit the deficit of the Republic's budget to one sustainable level of 177 billion dinars, which would account for around 4.7% of GDP, is primarily necessary. At some point, it can be said to be extorted, but it is realistic and enforceable. For these reasons, the SPS will support budget rebalances and follow-up laws, in principle. The state of payment of income and the inflow of revenue into the budget is primarily one of the basic reasons for rebalancing and they, as the resolution minister said, have caused the need for budget rebalancing. Of course, there are more interesting measures on the bulky side of the budget, and I will say something about them first, given that spending cuts are foreseen compared to the original Budget Law, somewhere in the amount of 37.1 billion dinars compared to the law. We witnessed today and earlier days of debate on how to save, develop, where to save, where not to save. I would like to say that the SPS is pleased that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself as one of the socially sustainable policies that has been directed in the best interests of most citizens and has not been able to save there and among those layers of citizens where there are practically no conditions for a decent life, which in some sense would be socially irresponsible. I am talking about the fact that the government has not been able to freeze pensions and salaries, but rather, the real harmonisation of pensions in October of 0.5%, limited growth since 2014, and, of course, such a single plan is being extended to 2015, with the desire and the idea of limiting pension participation to some level of 10%, and wages to 8% of GDP, which is also a standard in highly developed and even in developed countries. Of course, when I say that this debate about possible savings on the dissipated side did not go in the direction and to the detriment of the poorest layers of the population, the government chose, according to us, a real solution, and it is moving, first of all, at the discretionary expenditures of the budget users and it is about 32 billion dinars. I would really like to strongly support one promotion of the behavioral model when it comes to unnecessary consumption. This savings should be made and it is necessary to completely eliminate the possibility of some abnormal expenditure, when it comes to rolling stock, official travel, representation. They thus have one symbolic effect for everyone and for one new model of behaviour and treatment towards public finances in the Republic of Serbia and in general in society. In addition, the government's definition should be added when it comes to public sector income itself and the use of good, positive examples from some neighbouring countries, when it comes to, above all, the improvement of the system and the control of employees and the formation of a single register, and of course, in a later period and central accounting of public sector employees' salaries. It is also important to expect certain savings from this solution because other countries have succeeded. Unfortunately, capital expenditures have been reduced from 22 billion to 14 billion dinars. It is good that a certain redistribution has been performed in accordance with the dynamics of execution and needs shown. But it's also good that priority investment and, above all, that were started. It is known that without investment and new development and re-industry, there is no economic recovery and new employment and reaching high growth rates. But this information that the reduced capital investment funds can't be presented as something that's a way to stop the investment. In addition to that, I would like to say, here are only two investments, in my opinion very significant and capital, that the state will guarantee to invest gas pipelines from the Banatski dvor underground warehouse to the future underground warehouse in Serbia's Itebej towards Panchev and Belgrade. It is a strategically significant investment for the Republic of Serbia and it amounts to around 65m euros and should not talk about what it means for the energy stability of the Serbian state. Another investment heading towards the town of Zrenjanin for the construction of a 26m-euro water factory, another type of investment, but this acute problem of the town of Zrenjanin, where there is poor water quality, but in the 21st century, one such solution of such a problem is long awaited, and is the possibility of creating a better environment for life in Zrenjanin, but also for investors. On the other hand, there is one proposed solution when it comes to 179 enterprises in restructuring and the basic idea of introducing these enterprises into restructuring in 2002 was to make it easier to privatise these large systems. Of course, as privatisation was carried out under one bad law which the SPS did not vote for, so this idea of restructuring was recalibrated, so it practically evened out with one bad privatisation. That is why we think that defining this solution and counting by 30 June 2014 and exiting it from restructuring shows the government's determination to finally resolve these companies, that many investments such as subsidies and direct programmes will create space for these funds to be channelled into much better projects and investments. It should be said that the funds are from 700m to billions of euros per year. On the other hand, I would also like to welcome the proposal to increase, i.e. the introduction of a transition fund and the allocation of additional funds, which would provide in fact a social programme for all workers, when it comes to these enterprises in restructuring. In this context, the government proposes and intends to speed up the environment for functioning and announces the necessary changes, when it comes to, above all, the Labour Act. In any case, we welcome every kind of government measure that goes towards speeding up the employment environment, for possibly some reform of collective bargaining, all that could be some improvement in that domain, and even for a form of self-employment, as the promoter himself says. Indeed, the SPS in this regard wants to insist that these solutions should be well balanced, measured and reached in the negotiations with the union, the employer and the intentions of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the best solutions can be reached through negotiations. Of course, the same is true when it comes to the Law on Planning and the problem of issuing building permits, which will speed up the investment environment in the Republic of Serbia. At the income station, the measures envisioned are mainly about something the SPS MPs have been pointing to for a long time. Every time there was a debate on the budget or rebalancing, we advocated the idea of a solution both on the income and on the dispensary side and that such a common method would lead to a more balanced budget. This time there was a drastic subsidisation of income, first of all, and charges and increases in the gray market. Certainly, the SPS supports and believes that an effective fiscal policy must be in the function of curbing the grey economy, tax evasion, especially working on illegal, gray or black labour markets that are undeclared, which are often without any right, without social and health care, and are often exposed to the pressures to be fired. Big burden, big responsibility on the IRS. I really want to say, and I believe that the state should not and should not be saving in the tax administration as a state body in any way, because the tax administration is a body that directly determines, charges and controls the state's own income. Every penny in it, I'm sure, would be back very soon. Therefore, I think that the general state status, the general status of the tax administration deserves a different approach if not as independent bodies that we often discuss here, which have enormously higher incomes, are in some sense more protected, so to speak, and the media sent, the tax administration deserves at least such treatment in that sense. Of course, certain changes that are needed, and depending on what I said, it is impossible what we expect from the tax administration that only 10% of employees involved in concrete field work will achieve these effects. There's about 600 of them, maybe more today. I'm sure it's necessary to change that. It is necessary to change the model of the choice of taxpayers. Of course, what we always insist on and should appear and media should be sent to cross-check, i.e. verifying the property and income of citizens. There are cases visible to the naked eye, objects that need to be done urgently. It would be a clear message to everyone if tax evasion, corruption and crime really didn't pay off in that sense. The competent authorities of the tax administration, in particular those working on the ground, should be reconsidered, in what sense and how far they can go in that control and when illegal traffic and the premises in which this illegal traffic takes place, what their competences and competences are in this regard. I think there would be room for them to increase their jurisdiction so they could do their job in the best possible way. Of course, there is a need for consistent application of criminal policy. Why do I say that? First of all, when it comes to a grey economy that is enormously large in Serbia, it is about 30% of gross social product, one of the basic ways to suppress it is that there is a certain control of all those taxpayers, all those entities that are thinking and intending to cross the gray zone, to make it clear that control is certain and that the risk has been significantly increased since going to the gray zone. Of course, it takes these penalties to be suited to the offence, so that the penalty is not for five violations which are enormously high in value and that the taxpayer himself accepts that perhaps for the first time he may be warned or mildly punished, and when he measures the punishment and what he did and gets in the gray zone, it certainly is not something that increases the risk of going into the gray zone. In this way, the cost-effectiveness of tax evasion is really reduced. All of us, I said, should have one responsible community approach to public finances. Also, when it comes to tax evasion, it seems to me that there has been a long time in society and with us some belief that whoever succeeded in tax evasion, who managed to postpone, who otherwise succeeded, was considered a "successful businessman". Indeed, everyone in society, both the media and us MPs, should say in this sense that through a system of information and education, we increase awareness of the negative effects of the gray economy. At the very end, I would also like to say that one of the sources of the gray economy can also represent cash payments, or not, but almost represent them. I would indeed advocate and suggest that certain subsidies for the introduction of terminals to small enterprises, for example in sectors where cash is dominated, for example in catering and other activities, become dominant and thus narrows down the area of cash payments, which, we all understand, can be a source for the gray economy. To conclude, above all, a scenario that would be known without this rebalancing, without accompanying laws that create one environment for the necessary reforms and determination of the government to implement it, would certainly make the scenario much worse for Serbia. However, the government's determination to face first of all the problem of public finances, to offer solutions, deserves support. The choice of a socially sustainable policy, above all, through a burden shift on those who can bear better the burden of the crisis, and not those who are socially endangered and certainly the government's commitment to the announcements of reform that a significant fiscal policy is being led towards countering the gray economy, tax evasion, I think it deserves support. Once again, I call on everyone at this point for one responsible state and general government policy, because we are talking about Serbia's public finances and our money, which is neither left-wing nor right-wing, nor white or black, but is simply one of our common money, and therefore the SPS will support the draft budget rebalancing and follow the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19893	Time. Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19894	First of all, I'd like to thank you for this part of your exposure where you're asking the IRS to expand the social support at work, so that everyone has equal treatment, and that those who pay their regular debts to the state wouldn't be in worse status than those who don't pay them. We'll really insist on that. I'm going to try to help the IRS really get all the strength it takes to increase the charge. You're absolutely right, the current situation in the structure of tax administration employees is not at all favourable. All some 600-700 inspectors work in the field, out of thousands, there's about six, seven thousand employees in the IRS, and they're mostly counter workers. We are making such a reform to move to an individual tax application as of 1 January, and only one account will be charged with all taxes and contributions and only one order, and then all will be obliged to register only an electronic tax from June. We're already making a plan to replace people from the counter with people who are going to go into inspection, to restructure the tax administration and focus more on control. It won't be an easy job, because one inspector needs time to learn how to do a good job – to be nice to clients, and yet, to be strict and on the other side of justice, to have equal criteria for everyone. Experience has shown in the controls we've been doing this year that over half of the controlled facilities don't issue fiscal accounts. It's a huge indiscipline. Now we're going to go with strict penalties. We noticed one more thing, that inspectors from one city are favored by the controls in that city, so we will do rotations, as I did while Mr. Ilic led the tax administration in 2004-2006. Novi Sad inspectors will control Belgrade and Belgrade's will control Novi Sad. By that principle, we'll be working on the controls of neighboring cities. Also, you said yourself – we will not regret resources to strengthen the technical equipment of the tax administration. A completely new information system is being developed to enable electronic payments and to stop communication with papers and switch to electronic communication. At the same time, fiscal cash registers and GPRS devices were introduced in 2005. Since then, the technique has progressed. The tax administration has fallen quite asleep from 2007 to today. Even those who have GPRS have stopped sending them, because in the last five to six years, no one has controlled them and asked them if you sent your report without me saying that no one has analyzed the data that came from the GPRS system. In the end, of all those who had fiscal registers, maybe only 5% sent a report. It's the condition we found at the beginning of this year. We've all sent a warning letter that we will seriously punish all those who don't respect this. Now we're going to go to a program adaptation on GPRS devices. Namely, the current system that exists indicates the state of issue of fiscal accounts every 10 to 15 days. In the meantime, the technique has progressed, and since New Year's, we're going to introduce devices that are going to read it, in a second, the exact state of the field, so we're not going to memorize the inspectors, but we're going to have the opportunity to punish them immediately because we're going to have data on the line from the GPRS system. Let me immediately point out that "abgradation", or upgrade of these devices, we will do about the cost of the state and we will not ask the debtor for any cost, so that we can better control it. We're starting to control unregistered activity, because we have two types of tax evasion. One is a grey economy, where a partial tax is paid and partially does not pay. There are those who pay nothing. It is those who are completely black, from hair salons to different forms of production that work in garages etc. In fact, they are unfair competition to those who pay taxes. As you know, we have introduced a system that when we first catch them, we temporarily take away the goods and give them 45 days to register. That's what we've been able to do with about 60 cases since the beginning of the year. But now we're going to step up. We're not looking to get them off the market. The goal is to get them into a legal system, to pay, if they need a flat tax if they're small, or more serious taxes if they're bigger taxpayers. Finally, what has long been announced since this month, since July, we've been going into cross-checking of income and property. Today until eight o'clock in the evening, there's still more than two hours, the deadline expires, the last deadline for reporting assets of all citizens with assets worth more than 35 million dinars. As usually happens, crowds have been created in the last few days and maltenes for the last few days have submitted as many applications as for the previous few months. Today, that deadline is running out. First we'll check out those who didn't report anything and at least it'll be easy. If it is found that someone with a property worth more than 35 million dinars did not report it at all, without question, without justification, he will be charged a fine of 3% of the total market value of the undeclared assets. So 3% of the total value of the unreported assets will immediately be accounted for, without the right to any objections, because this process has been going on for several months. Then it'll start to determine where that property came from, whether it's derived from legal income. If they're suspected of illegal incomes, there's criminal charges and then they're dealt with by investigative authorities. If he can't prove and match his income assets, he'll have to pay 20% in taxes. In other words, it's been going on for a long time, it's been waiting a long time, but it's literally starting this month. How do we know who it is that didn't report property worth more than 35 million dinars? At every level of local self-government, you know who people who have such property are. How do you know? At the value of the property tax they pay. Also, we've already taken from the M.O.P. a database of purchased vehicles in the last few years that are of greater value. We'll go to people like that first. If we do that, and we see that they didn't report anything, and they had until eight o'clock today, and then they'll only start checking in on those who reported this, so that it can be determined, because we have to have some priorities. The biggest offense is that someone doesn't report it at all, and those who have reported it need to see if the property and income data match. If anyone else is watching this transmission, they've got two hours left to file a report. He can do it by electronic means. This, of course, applies to both members of the Government and the Members of Parliament. There's no dilemma. I told my colleagues that. This applies to all citizens, all who have over 35 million dinar assets. Of course, what you said in the process of control and tax collection, there will be no selectivity, there will be no exceptions and there will be no tolerance. We simply have too many needs to finance, from pensions through social protection, to the need to build infrastructure. Simply, if someone calls himself a businessman, and he's not able to pay taxes like his neighbor, the other businessman who pays everything, then he's a fake businessman. We can't ask the state to do everything, and those who have to pay taxes, some pay nothing. So we have to make that one balance and responsibility so we can move forward. I really thank you for this support, because it takes social support to implement this process. There will always be someone who will help and say, "Why does someone charge me a tax after five years and we didn't pay it?" There'll be an institution that probably can't pay that tax, but somebody pay for it. It's simple, the tax has to be paid. We have an example, I've spoken to the mayor of Novi Sad. The man inherited a tax debt in a kindergarten called "The Joyful Childhood". Maltenes are at the top of a list of tax non-payments. The New Now kindergarten hasn't paid much for years. They didn't pay any taxes. Now, the City of Novi Sad, neither guilty nor debtor has to lie down and pay for it for them, because clearly the school doesn't have the money to pay for it. The same goes for sports clubs. There just can't be tolerance here. If one club pays regularly, one club can't pay anything. It must be equal treatment for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19895	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19896	The chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of this rebalancing, we had a celebration of the non-existent date for the start of EU entry negotiations on Friday, and today we have a debate on rebalancing. When we know it's the Budget Law, because this rebalance is still the budget law, it's just changed. It is one of the very rare laws that requires an absolute majority and, as in any other country, implies being the subject of consensus in the government. We've heard that consensus exists. But today we see, for example, in the government of Zoran Djindjic, when Mirko Cvetkovic was also prime minister, that there are no prime ministers, there are no representatives of other political parties, there are not even very important ministers, the Minister of Agriculture, many others, who are also affected by this rebalancing, so that we can ask them questions and that they, measuredly, from their sector, answer them. No, today we only have one minister, but the truth is that behind this kind of rebalancing, because it will show a day for voting, SNS stands, SPS, PUPS, Mr Ljajic's party and Minister Dinkic's party. That's why I'm not talking to the Minister today. That's why I'm talking to the Government. The government, which is not here today and has not granted us her presence to discuss one important matter, if not the most important law of our country. The government's credibility to talk about public finances is zero today. For the reason that when we first listened to this government on matters of rebalancing, she told us it was an extortional move. In October, at the end of October, when we had the budget for this year, the government told us that this was the best budget in the last 20 years and that I was quoting some media headlines -- that Serbia would light up, that all problems had been solved and that bankruptcy had been avoided. Here we are less than 5-6 months after the start of this year and Serbia, the citizens need to know, there is a convincingly largest budget deficit increase, there is the worst state of public finances in Europe. It can't go without consequences. The consequences are that a number of financial institutions that bought the state debt of the Republic of Serbia no longer do so. To quote the governor of the National Bank, quote one English house, she said he was a bad customer, that the finance ministry mischosen customers, because she decided to issue for herself, and others, her recommendation not to buy Serbian paper anymore, but to sell. It is something that warns us and we are here because of the warnings and the Fiscal Council and the International Monetary Fund that this budget is unrealistic and that we are skating towards a deficit or 5.5-6% on the Fiscal Council or 8% on the International Monetary Fund's estimate. There's no credibility. When you show up for the fifth or sixth time in this house and you say that's it. The last time we heard that was in May. Then you said that the changes in tax laws, which were essentially 200m euros from local self-government, so much about the even regional development we heard about this morning, that as much as Mr. Directors of the Pension Fund would pay off pensions and that we wouldn't need to see each other about the budget until autumn, if necessary. Here we are, the end of June, the beginning of July, we are discussing it, and the credibility of what is ahead of us is further curtailed, not only by the fact that there is absolutely no idea in this rebalancing, but because the fiscal council itself says that an increase of 120 to some 178 billion dinars of deficits is not convincing, that the budget is likely to be about 200 billion dinars, half on revenue, half on expenditures. Increases in i.e. The International Monetary Fund itself believes that the budget gap will be even more significant. Today we heard the exposés that was about everything except the rebalancing. We've heard a lot about the various data concerning macro-economy, as an authorised representative of our group, I'm going to have to talk a little bit about it, but of course I'm going to talk more about what the subject is today, which is a matter of rebalancing which, let's take a look at the minute, from 50 minutes of exposure of the government's representatives, only four minutes have been devoted to rebalancing, because then some reforms that have yet to be implemented. I don't think that's an accident. That's because this rebalancing is hopeless, because it brings nothing good to our citizens and our economy and I will explain it in the next few minutes. Let's start a little bit now about general things. I don't know how many times we've heard that it's no problem that a budget rebalance is being brought -- look, Russia is bringing budget rebalances. Dear People's MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here are the elements on the rebalancing of the Russian budget, so let's finally get it off the agenda. To remind ourselves - the Russian federal budget directly depends on 50 per cent of the price of oil and gas, and indirectly 80 per cent. How do you compare that to one Serbia that doesn't produce crude oil? It's not that much of our budget at all. But in the budget adopted by Duma on 24 May, the budget hasn't changed at all, as is happening in Serbia today, the budget deficit has not been increased at all. A fellow Popovic who follows Russia very well and thus confirms it. They planned their budget so that it could be implemented with a price of $91 per barrel of oil, and when the price fell from $125 per barrel to $100 per barrel, they had the caution to cut the revenue from oil, to replace it from the incomes of that fund that they formed for those cases, and that all total expenditures were preserved, and not only that, but they decided to reduce some unproductive things and to increase the distribution and expenditures in agriculture and investment. So don't tell us about Russia anymore. Russia has made a cautious, smart, and one real turn in public finances that puts it on a very sustainable path. This rebalancing shows only the government's inability to run public finances. The government is acting, honourable MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without any desire to deal with any day-to-day policy here, I don't have a better picture than a groggy boxer in front of a knockout. Every other month they get a blow they didn't predict, they always have too many optimism, and we as citizens suffer the consequences. Dear People's MPs, it's not just a question of some abstract figures. Ask your children and parents' teachers, not only among MPs, but among citizens. There are no vaccines for children today. Of the 11 mandatory vaccines, nine are not present in Serbia. I checked with the Batut Institute, if you want to get a rabies vaccine, it's gone, there's only for emergency situations. Yesterday, one of my friends, who had serious heart problems, was informed that there was no more stent in Kamenica. Caution in managing public finances leads us to some of our fellow citizens having lives at stake. What is this rebalancing, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? This rebalancing is a rebalance that leads to a reduction in the expenditures of three billion dinars for agriculture, and we have heard how much, from the Prime Minister's exposure to this day, it is a priority. If it's something of a priority, if you want to have the trust of a farmer, then it's minimum to keep your promise and what was the budget, to keep it fully. But it's not just a question of what's already going on with farmers, it's what everyone knows well, and it's not that it's not that they're paying off, but the law that this assembly passed a few months ago, the minimum contributions for certain cultures. No, we're having an aflatoxin affair that wasn't solved, because March 15th was supposed to be a deadline when the aflatoxin level in milk was supposed to be down to 0.05%. We don't know where we are at it, but the only thing this government has found is that it reduces the expenditure on control services, veterinary services in this case, and many others that have to ensure that the food we bring into our bodies is safe for our children. This is where it's being saved. That's the rebalancing of this government. Even less security for the food we consume. What is this rebalancing, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That's three billion dinars less for education and science, and we're talking and we're saying that's important to us. We have a minister who's running away from a media representative, who's upset when he comes to the Assembly to answer extremely important things, we have a director of our most prestigious mathematical high school who speaks, and rarely says it that way, and we've known him more than 20 years in the media that way, that it's about the twilight of our education, one of the hardest things that's happened to us, this crash with the prom. It shows, with the purchase of various diplomas, that the most important thing is that this rebalancing is only an additional step in the destruction of our education. What's very important to say is that those who have been dealing with science for years will get 1.8 billion dinars less for their research. They do not receive funding at all for material costs and do not ask anyone for two to three years or attack them if they are less able to do what they have done with many successes over the past years, which is to publish in the highest quality scientific journals and to hear a little more of the voice of the Republic of Serbia in the domain of the knowledge economy. They're empty stories about information technologies, if they don't give funds to those who need to provide basic, basic research in that domain from which research will come, then results, then patents and then some companies that will be able to export. With this rebalancing, we deny our future. With this rebalancing which reduces the resources for science, which reduces the resources for agriculture, we say – no, the future. Speaking of infrastructure and construction, we now hear from the government that the structure is supposed to be a trigger. We all know that. But look at the numbers you're showing us today. What gets down the most is just investment for the building. Every ministry that had any kind of project that could have employed our construction activity has been shut down. Everything that's supposed to be built, what's supposed to be built, our domestic operation has been shut down, no more. Then don't tell us there's a loan to be reactivated. It is, unfortunately, some major tenders, where some of the other rules that we need to discuss and I expect them to be in this house, are mostly beaten by some foreign firms, and some of them are then bankrupt. What's important is we find a way to hire our building now. At this point, 120,000 jobs are at risk. Construction firms, none of them have any serious business in perspective for the next six to nine months. That's what the MP of another opposition party was talking about, that's what we need to talk about. So let's not be surprised if at the end of the year we see that we've lost another 50,000 to 60,000 jobs and we have our people scattered around the world trying to find a catch. This rebalancing is a rebalancing that has abolished all investments that were planned for emergency measures. Even some members of the government criticised other members of the government for this. What if there's a city? There was. What if there's a flood? There were them. What does Serbia do to ensure both its agriculture and its future and the safety of the people living in it? No, this government says -- that's not the most important thing, it doesn't matter, we're going to cut almost to zero all investments in that domain. When we talk about culture, there's half the money for investment. My fellow MPs will talk about it later. This is not only the worst budget in the last ten years for the cultural domain, but it's still in structure now, and we can't and we won't agree. When we talk about the numbers we've heard, here's at least one good news, which is that unemployment falls. Dear People's MPs, these are the numbers of the labour force poll and let me give you the figures concerning this government. The first measurement of the unemployment rate during the government's mandate, as the poll is conducted twice a year, which is October 2012, the rate was 22.4%. The number we heard today is correct, 24.1% in April. I don't know how much math I know, but I know 24.1 is more than 22.4. During the government's term of office, unemployment, unfortunately, has been increased. Stop manipulating all kinds of numbers and stop lying to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Insulting our intelligence is one thing, and insinuating our citizens and our partners is a much, much worse thing. When we talk about things, like, Exports, we heard various numbers. It is true that in the first five months exports have been slightly increased, following a major decline last year. We'll be the first to be happy and satisfied if the export grows. But if you want to say all the numbers, why don't you say that in May the export dropped 10% compared to April? That's true. Why is that true? Because this year Easter was in May, not April, so there were more working days in April, and in May there were fewer. When we look at the list of our exporters, unfortunately, we see that there are still a lot of those for whom significant state support is needed. We don't even know today what the support of the Irons of Smedereva is because, unfortunately, it is not in the budget, because it is implemented through the guarantees of the Development Fund and because, despite our questions, no one has been able to tell us the truth about how much it costs for this government to show a certain increase in industrial production and how much it costs to show some increase in exports. So when we talk about the situation, we have to say some other numbers. This government initially said, i.e. Those who formed it said we would have 100 billion euros by the end of the decade. It comes to you just over 10 billion euros a year. Then we moved on to slightly more realistic figures, because such figures were reached at a given time during some other governments of the Republic of Serbia. For example, with the government of Mirko Cvetkovic's latest year, foreign direct investment reached 2 billion euros. Last year, during this government's mandate, but let's be that it was half the previous government and half this was 200 million. From the National Bank of Serbia site, so that everyone can check, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the number of foreign direct investments for the first four months is 155.5m euros. That's in four months. When you multiply by three, you see that you are still very, very far, three times below that two billion-euro target. We see a lot of people coming, but so far we don't see a lot of signers, and if it's signed, it's for very modest amounts of investment. Dear MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have nothing of two billion euros. It would be good if we had a billion. What does that mean? That means we have to plan the situation to be possibly half a billion, without our country's foreign reserves starting to melt. There was little to talk about this morning. America, which is doing a little bit better in the economy, I'm talking about it because it stops printing money, which was huge. It already has effects, a chain effect on Europe, and also on us because of that, because there will be an imminent increase in interest rates. Since much of our debt is in variable interest, someone has to plan and budget for this year and rebalance for next year, with a lot of unfavourable forecasts in the interest domain. That's not the case here. Here we act as if we're always going to be at a strange moment, where the interest on the developed world is at zero, and for us at about 6% to 7%. That's why this rebalancing isn't real either. What should we do? We'll talk about it during the debate. It is clear that whoever wants good for our country must say: something must be lived on, and then the budget is filled. First, we need to secure the right budget for agriculture. You should absolutely not program those outstanding loans, but tell the European Investment Bank, the World Bank and everyone else that this can no longer be our priority. Maybe in some better times, he should have done it. We need to relocate these three billion to the real sector, to support existing businesses, to give them support, to give them guarantees that they can buy machines, that those who already have certain jobs can develop them. In this way, and this is the DS plan, our 500m-euro plan, which is absolutely possible for ten leading cities, real people and real firms, will get real resources and thus be able to develop real sustainable jobs. This government no longer has any credibility in the domain of public finances, but if someone is a groggy boxer in front of a knockout, it's not just his problem, it's a problem for all of us, and that's why the DS during this debate will try to give a few suggestions to avoid what, if things continue like this, is an imminent financial failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19897	Thank you. Mr. Radenkovic, you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19898	Thank you, Vice President. Reporting under Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure. When colleagues act and talk like this, you must indicate that the dignity of the Assembly has been injured. This demagogy and this story is not worthy of this home at all, that someone who left 500,000 people without a job, who has destroyed all the factories in this country, closed, robbed and delivered money from this country, is giving us a lecture right here. How is he not ashamed? We have to listen to that, how long? You have to warn him. The consequence of what we have today is exactly that. Why didn't they bring us in after October 5th to Europe when they were best friends with them? (President: Mr. Radenkovic, please don't replicate. They've experienced that we're doing it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19899	Thank you. I don't think it's an injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure, since Mr Djelic expressed his political... Mr Stefanovic answered for the word, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19900	Chairman, article 107 has been injured. - dignity, by bringing out something...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19901	Mr. Stefanovic, you advertise the same injury Mr. Radenkovic advertised. I really can't let you do that. Try another member to advertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19902	Yes, but I can appeal to the same member in the event that someone has broken the Rules of Procedure by calling that member. You can't tell me because he did it so no one else can use that member now. You know we've discussed this a hundred times, and I think we're here in the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19903	Then you think that article 103 has been broken? Maybe that's what you're saying? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19904	I think a broken Rules of Procedure in that sense because the previous speaker, whom you have allowed, has brought out some things that can be characterized as insults. Although after I listened, thinking about what my esteemed colleague Radenkovic said, I realized that he was talking about Slobodan Milosevic and his party, so I want to say that we are not offended by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19905	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19906	I certainly agree with MP Radenkovic that there is no room for euphoric tones in this debate, coming from one side or another. So I don't want to look too much at what the DS MP said, but I just want to remove any doubt, and to you MPs and citizens, about the data on the labour force survey. As you know, in one of the assembly debates, I mentioned that last October the unemployment rate was measured by a labour force poll of 22.4%. And then I told you that as a government, we didn't want that information at all to be presented as some kind of triumphant data, because it included researchers who were doing a list of agriculture at that time. That's what I said very honestly, and me and the people of the government never boasted. Don't you think we'd brag about the fact that the unemployment rate dropped by 25.4%, how realistic it was in April, to just 22.4%? We didn't say that because we knew what that information covered. I told you that very openly in the discussion, and I said that the first real data would be April when there were no extraordinary seasonal employment surveyors or anything else. It's April this year. In that sense, and in the opening statement, I said there was no room for any pleasure, but the fact is that after four consecutive years, when unemployment grew, starting from 2009 to last year, this is the first year when the trend was halted. Will that be permanent? That's our question, and that's why we all have to make it not an individual case together, but that that kind of data comes in the next period. I'll tell you exactly what the numbers are. In April of last year, I already said, the labour poll covers all those who have jobs, including agriculture and those who are employed in the gray economy, who in the survey say they have a job, although they are not registered. These were in April of last year 2,157,618, in April of this year 2.227,432, meaning 69,800 more than a year ago. So, it's not a small difference, but again, given that the unemployment rate is 24.1%, or even 708,000 people are looking for a job actively in Serbia, it's people who are not only registered at the unemployment bureau, but are really looking for a job because they don't have one. Then I said we could be satisfied if we put that percentage of 24.1% below 20%. Well, of course, if we go down later. Currently, in April 2013, according to this survey, there were 28,000 fewer unemployed than a year ago. I'm saying again, it's data that's accurate, but it doesn't need to be liquefied. That's the whole truth. There's really no room for any euphoria or acting, as you've rightly concluded, anyone here. As far as export data are concerned, I have to say that production at the Ironworks was launched only in late April, and the first effect was in May and June, so the Ironworks are not yet as a significant factor in the data for the first five months. Exports of 21% were mainly made by other companies. It was only in May that the Iron Man joined it. So, apropo including "The Irons" in the data. I'll tell you which first 15 companies in the first six months had Serbia's largest exports. "Fiat" came first with 656.000,000 euros in exports in six months. So someone said he'd do less than we expected. No, I don't. They're going after what we predicted. So, if they do double in a year, it'll be about 1,300,000 euros. It's really a serious export only from one company. Serbia's oil industry – 135,000 euros. They set out to expand into the surrounding countries, following an investment they made in the modernisation of the refinery. The third is Tiger Tigers from Pirota, with 115,000 euros. The good news is that they will double production, because they will invest in new capacities and production plants in Pirot. The fourth place is Petrochemy from Panchev, with about 100,000 euros in exports by six months and along with the current oil industry, with Mr. Kravchenko, we are working to implement another investment programme to increase energy efficiency over the next year, so that the company can return to its place in the former Yugoslavia and Serbia, before falling into difficulty at one point a few years ago. The fifth place is Hemofarm from Vrsac with 75,000 euros in exports. RTB Bor is the sixth with 63,000. Then, Bol Peking, those who produce cans in Belgrade, Americans, 59.7. "Tarket," former "Synthelon" from Backa Palanca, 59,000,000. South Korean "Jura" – 59,000,000 euros in exports. It's the tenth Impol Seval from Sevojn, 51.3. Eleventh - "Tetra Pak", with 48, 2. The 12th is Gorenje, with its three factories in Serbia, which exports 46.4m. The 13th is Sirmium Steel from Sremska Mitrovica. They do waste iron processing - 44.3 million. Then, the Italian Golden Lady, with two factories, in Loznica and Valjevo. They're all exporting to the Russian market, $43 million for the first six months. The 15th is Leoni, which produces the same car cables, 42 million. They have a factory in Prokuplje. They are now investing in a new factory in Doljevac, where they will employ 1,500 workers in the next period. So it's the first fifteen exporters. We will, as I have already said, in the coming weeks, months, go to all hundreds of first exporters in Serbia, make a preliminary analysis of how many components they are importing today, which they are installing here in Serbia to export and make a proposal to introduce domestic small and medium-sized enterprises that would be the new components of these exporters. It is the only way that those who are already successful are bound by some of our companies who may not have good equipment, but could, through additional investments, become suppliers of these large companies, then give them the financial support to get these equipment, if they get a supply contract for these large exporters and thus bind a lot of domestic small and medium-sized enterprises to these producers. In fact, only Burning employs 50 components already in the vicinity of Valjev. It'll do the same thing in other places where there's a factory and I believe that this way we can increase the additional exports. Finally, just another misinformation to deny, which is that the budget deficit reportedly is higher this year than it was last year. That's what I said in the opening statement, but I have to repeat because I've heard from two MPs of the opposition incorrect information. The fact is that in the first six months of this year, the budget deficit is 12% lower than in the same period last year, and by the end of the year it will be 1.5% of gross domestic product lower than the previous year. It's true that this is still a high budget deficit. I've never hid that. I just don't see in this kind of discussion that there's any use to being exaggerated, on the one hand, on the other hand. We only look the truth in the eyes and if we attack the problems as they are, not push them under the carpet, as some have done before, we can recover our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19907	Replica, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19908	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad you're back. Congratulations on your doctorate. As far as this data is concerned, it's an interesting tamatoma. Now we've heard that 24.1% of unemployed are no more than 22.4%. So 24.1% is no more than 22.4%. What's true is that this government continues to employ in the state administration. A thousand in the last 12 months, state administration. What's true is that 1,414 people are employed in state-owned water companies, to be exact. Today we heard a lot about public sector reform. Where are your competitions? Where's that department that's been talked about so much? How much, three competitions, maybe four, with today, when you were very upset by the director of the Serbian Roads, so you called him a competition? Is that how the law is respected? When someone pisses you off, you call the competition. If anyone's quiet, then you don't call a competition. When will the law voted here be respected? When is this department going to happen, this thing that's being talked about becomes a little bit more than just some appeals? The minister has told us one interesting thing and among these exporters I have one question for the minister – is there one one that this government has brought? There isn't. So thank you for the great compliment for the government run by the DS, because all these exporters you mentioned are the ones that were provided and the budget that you so often criticized and the subsidies that we gave both joint work and local self-government and the agriculture ministry that worked to provide both the country and many other things. I'm glad to hear today that you're working with Mr. Kravchenk, because there were parties in the previous government that opposed the arrangement with the Russian Federation that launched the DS. (President: Time. ) This budget, I conclude, how can you tell us that it is good for employment, when it reduces by three billion dinars, the only budget for active employment measures, three billion less, and increases by five billion dinars by a transition fund, and that's for layoff? This fund and this budget are a fund and a budget to be laid off. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19909	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19910	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I like to listen to these inspired speeches, they can really give a man inspiration, especially when they spend a good part of their time explaining the growth of unemployment from 22.4% to 24.1%, but can't explain to us fellow MPs from the former regime, and where do those 22.1% come from? Where did that number come from from the unemployed? Or should I remind you, one of the first budgets in 2001 was 140 billion dinars. With that budget, the Republic of Serbia has lived as long as a year, and now we have a budget of 800 billion dinars that we still have to borrow. We have to borrow it because we have to pay 550 billion dinars in health care funds and the Pension Insurance Fund. What didn't we do in 2001? Because people have worked, Vlahovic, Pitic, co-worker Djelic, has not arrived yet to devastate Serbia. That was the beginning. Then, in order to sow the budget, taxes are also made up that have to remain today because of this financial situation. Then it was invented tax on the use of holding and carrying goods, and on the car, and on everything you bought. So it seems to me that some things are a little messed up around here. We are talking about the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and the 2 billion-euro investment on the tail of operations and the purchase of state securities of value, on rates that were 24%. That's not some piece of information to brag about. Those two billion euros were never seen by anyone. They disappeared in 2010, sir, when the NBS sold a billion and 400m euros in foreign exchange reserves to keep the exchange rate as it is. You can go on the NBS website and look at the bank's daily liquidity, so you'll see, that's what this is about. Some people here know how to read some papers at least a little bit. We want to talk about paying the interest on the domestic loans of 91 billion and 700 million. You're saying this government has made so much money that it's supposed to pay 92 billion dinars in the name of interest alone. No, it's Mirko Cvetkovic's debts. So you're saying we should get 46 billion dinars back on the side of the loan. Whose loans are these? Not these governments, again the previous ones. The guarantees that the previous council gave from the Republic of Serbia's budget for six billion 900 million dinars? What directors were they when they failed to repay the loans this National Assembly gave them? Yours. You're talking about agriculture, we can talk about it. Last year, until the formation of this government, no single dinar was paid to farmers for subsidies to agriculture, which is why a rebalancing was made. Do you know the difference between this rebalancing and the rebalancing while he was Minister and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic? The difference is that money wasn't spent, so it's rebalanced to survive as it used to be, because you know if someone brings rebalancing in December, then he's already spent the money. Then only the Assembly, or MPs, should then press the button or raise their hands, however, so that the one who approved the funds does not go to prison. That's how it's done so far. This budget is not something for joy in Serbia but don't cover yourself over your head and don't say at least one part of it, be honest that this was extorted and it couldn't have been different. Even the biggest domestic experts couldn't predict, and God and worldly, this huge drop in budget revenues. The fiscal council said only 20 billion, and this fall couldn't be predicted because it was very skilled in the state of our economy, how ruined it was, how uninvited it was even on the domestic market, and how various financial lobbys over the past few years and controlled the market, and destroyed the competition, and God, and poored the economy by not fulfilling their obligations under the law and contracts on time. We had to pass the law when the goods had to be paid, otherwise, it seems to me that the co-owner was with the DS president on some list, I think, "Pres". That's how it worked. When it comes to domestic building effects I don't know who makes this bridge on Ada, I know it's paid, at least that's what those people who understand it say, one 300 million euros more but I don't know if it was made by a domestic company or by a foreign company? And you want to develop domestic building efficiency and industry. There is a reference to agriculture, aflatoxin, panic among citizens. That affair was resolved, someone stole the stock reserves and, through the aflatoxin affair, wanted to lead that the corn that was in the stock reserves was sold and someone took the money for him allegedly destroyed. By the way, when we calculated the word is somewhere from about 6,000 peddlers of goods that should again be paid by citizens of Serbia, again from some budget, or to translate into another number, it would be a column of those same boots from Saturday to Presevo. You've run the economy and the state so well, but not for the citizens, but for yourself. There is no excuse to say – that's why we lost the election but to say at least in this part of the budget when it comes to what the real situation is, rather than tending to attack the budget. I can't hear how those 22.4% by November or October of 2012? Did Vukic fire them from July 27th to October or November? It's not. They lost their jobs in your privatisations and dances, that's all. No one told me that if Serbia could live with a budget of two billion and 300m euros, that was your budget, Mr. Djelic in 2001, 140 billion, and now it can't go with the 800 billion budget. Who brought this great administration into the state administration? Well, it's not Alexander Vukitch, it's you when you're in power in every municipality in every office. I once made a joke when during your government, when you opened the agencies, all you had left to do was open an agency to open the agency. It was a joke, but someone took me seriously from the government and they really opened up the Agency. It can't survive with 800 billion dinars, as I said, because the transfer funds are 550 billion, and they're so big, because so many people have lost their jobs during your government, so we have to pay out of the budget for pensions and health care. So much for maybe not having a rabies vaccine. I don't know if it's that important today, it probably is. But when you talk about medicines as an economist, why don't you say that the Public Procurement Act is being implemented in the area of drug procurement at the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade? Why didn't you say so? Why didn't you help them as a great expert to spread public ads and get medicines, not to argue with the Public Procurement Department through the media, and leave the citizens without medication and thus endanger their lives and health. The aflatoxin story is a small game for drug shortages that took place in April and May this year in Belgrade. Speaking of which, that same standard is 0.5. It is true that it is not European, but it is true that it is valid in the United States, Canada, Russian Federation. I don't believe that these are unserious countries, that they don't care about the health of their citizens, but we have seen the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade take care of them. That's what this is about. So we're not happy with a budget like this, but here I apologize to all Serbian citizens, we didn't even know how much Mirko Cvetkovic's government led with Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic ruined Serbia's economy. I remember the exposé of a minister here when he explained the 2011 Budget Law, he predicted in 2014, that the deficit would be 1%, and in 2012, because of the commitments and debts you made, because of the election campaign, what was our deficit? It was over 6%. These were not government obligations in which Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, but the obligations imposed by Mirko Cvetkovic, so that anyone who has little to do with the economy knows that nothing so serious is ruined overnight, but that it takes far more time for what has been ruined to return to office, no matter how many people who want to do so, to be able to do so. There is no magic wand in the Serbian economy to solve all our problems. At least in that part, be realistic, at least in that part, accept that out of these 178 billion dinars, at least 150 billion liabilities that you've made. I'm saying -- at least, because it's enough to just write off the debts of "development banks" and "Agrobanks" and deficits wouldn't be with these interests as you owe the citizens. In any case, the SNS will vote for this budget rebalance. We believe that it is not too late, that through the rationalisation of the funds given to us by Serbian citizens, this budget is successfully met and that in the coming period we also expect the Government of Serbia to make an even greater contribution and to make our deficits smaller, and the funds given to us by Serbian citizens, to have maximum efficiency, in the sense that they invest not only in this part of spending where the money goes away and never returns, but to stimulate production and most of all in the area of agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19911	Replica, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19912	We listened to the 15-minute headquarters party here and we didn't hear, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, one word about rebalancing. We just heard that they were said to be unhappy, that they weren't the most satisfied, but they'll still vote and then the usual thing, as if at the end of July of last year, that it was all the fault of the previous government. I was the finance minister in 2001, so I don't want to talk about it much. I inherited 400m euros for two outstanding pensions, 341m euros for 20 pensions to farmers who have not been paid, 70m euros for an unpaid child's allowance and 4.8m euros for the stolen foreign currency savings that we are now returning. I just hope I don't get to be the finance minister again with things like that. I hope you don't make so many holes. It's the effect of the radical-socialist government that we inherited. It is good that you are now defending the EU and that you want to enter it, and it took you 20 years to convince you. As far as aflatoxin is concerned, know that we will not enter there via Russia or America, because the standard is worth the EU and will not impose Russia or America, but the EU. I hear you think it's an aflatoxin affair. No, if there is a crime, let it be punished, but the fact is that our children drink the worst milk in the region. That's a fact. The fact is that we cannot take advantage of Croatia's entry into Europe today, to take its positions where we can, because we do not respect what standards are. Anyway, the numbers are very stubborn. Here we are a year later. When you say that we are bankrupt, the one who says he is bankrupt, is not going and is not in charge of an additional four billion euros, and for so much you owe Serbia, but I see no road, no bridge and Belgrade's debt below 400m euros and much more with these manipulations. I must tell you, all your avoidances...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19913	Please, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19914	I know you like to interrupt me, especially the very long presentations of Mr. Minister and the people... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19915	Mr. Djelic, you've wasted your time. Replica, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19916	To avoid misunderstandings, last year, before the agricultural season began, it was assured that farmers were buying fuel for 64 or 65 dinars, one of these farmers who deal with agriculture and that price was achieved by subsidising fuel from different ways of budgets. Before the sowing started, three billion dinars were paid off as subsidies and that's the living money farmers got last year. There were other problems that were resolved in the second half of the year after budget rebalances, but they are not about the agriculture ministry but about the way the budget was conceived, and then a rebalancing would have to be carried out afterwards. In January or February of the month, it was intervened from appropriate resources, so it reduced the parity of relations for nitrogen fertilisers and for those who wanted it, for the wheat they had, for corn, for those who said it was green, so by this time of year in 2012, several very significant measures were implemented. In addition, in 2012, the last quarter of the 2011 milk premium was paid, when after the rebalancing, the part that is not related to the Ministry of Agriculture, but to other parts of the country that participate in budgeting, then other things were resolved. If the state hadn't decided to give up the service of 1600 or 1700 agricultural consultants, I'm sure 90% of us wouldn't have had a shred of these problems that we had with aflat-toxin, and that we would have solved these things differently. But, well, there's a possibility that we can make things right that we haven't done well, and in that sense today, I've spoken here, among other things, about things related to agriculture, it's necessary to reach a serious political agreement, and after that, a social agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19917	Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19918	Ladies and gentlemen, I really admire some things, I have to admit. So this is what it looks like, we've been making stamps into euro, but here's what Mr. Djelic said, all the way to the last dinar. Make it six billion euros. You know how much we owe from July 27th to July 27th last year – 19.8. Where did 13 - 14 billion euros go? That's what this is about. I wouldn't be proud of that. So today there's one such situation in the economy. Don't mention the afla-toxin story, I agree that our standard does not fit the EU standard, but you should also know that because of this affair, that Serbian agricultural products were hitched to export even where they could be exported, and even though they are exported, they are exported three or four times cheaper than they were before Mr Jesic came out and said that our children drank poison, and otherwise, on that same milk he grew up. So, don't talk about it anymore. I'd just like to say that the 14-15 billion-euro difference is not taken into account, it's just a debt, what was done with privatisation, with donations, when our companies were sold, and where that money went... (President: Thank you, Mr Arsic, two minutes and 20 seconds). You don't give an answer, and that's a damage of over 50 billion euros when it's all summed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19919	Mr. Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19920	Now, here's the deal. In December 2000, Serbia's debt is 14.5 billion euros. That's recalculated, of course, because let me tell you, to get to know you a little bit, because a few months ago, Mr. Arsic, we had a rather strange debate where you said that interest is on long-term loans, that they should be lower than short-term, I think about finance, let me tell you a few things in these two minutes as much as I have. First, we recalculated because we had debt both in dollars and in some other currencies. That's 14.5 and what's worse, that there was a lot of interest, and I'm proud to be part of a negotiating team that managed to make a record write-off of a 67% debt, I'm proud of that. This led to our country having a re-important breathing space, which is why we were one of the countries that had the lowest responsibility for years, and it was a big deal for our country. That's why you can't ignore one fact, and these are some elements of reality. From the moment this government was formed to this day's external debt, the sovereign debt totaled 4 billion euros. That's what you have on the Ministry of Finance website, NBS, see if you don't believe me, that's true. Secondly, when we talk about what's going on with that money, I may have missed something, but I don't see any capital facility, I don't see anything concrete done with those additional four billion euros. I don't see anything. In fact, when I look at this rebalancing, we see that these 500 million euros, as foreseen in the original budget, are not enough for investment infrastructure anyway, do you know how much it's been reduced to, i.e. How much has been spent for the first six months? Fifty million euros. Less than 10m euros a month, the government invests in infrastructure. Let me give you another interesting piece of information. Not one, not two, but three ministries. Although things don't change, we'll be very close to this strange situation, where the administration that needs to build costs more than what needs to be built. Another sad record when incapacitated public finances. They're facts and everyone has to be responsible for what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19921	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19922	If you're interested in facts, then when was the government formed? It was formed on July 27th. Do you feel that what is due in August, two days after the government formed, is the merit of this government, that there was no money to pay off pensions within 20 days? Do you think that the fact that they were not paid throughout the summer of the subsidy to agriculture, that no other payments were paid, in order to lower the artificial deficit, and then the government had to find liquid assets and pay it off, that it was the debt of this government? I mean, if that's how you count it, it's not serious. What is true, and what is serious, that starting from the New Year's, everything that is public debt belongs to the work of this government. Because if you'd left a full register and funds in advance, we could have talked about it. We have six months of liquidity in advance today. The liquidity on today, July 1st of this year, is about 98 billion dinars in the budget account, in dinars of 18.8 billion dinars, we have $725m in stock and 130m euros. So, it's not from today to tomorrow's politics, it's up ahead. That you left us like that, so let's say that we're in charge of something extra, everything that was August, September, October, November, December, so let's say, you're right. So, if we speak in fact language in December 2012 for the New Year, the public debt was 17.6 billion euros and that is the starting position, essentially, of the new government. That was 59.3% of GDP then. Now, at the end of May, the last data, May 31st, is more debt by one billion and three hundred, so not by four but by one billion and three hundred and 56.3% of GDP. Of course, by the end of the year, given this budget deficit that this public debt will be approximately at the level it was found in December, but the trend of exponential debt growth from the previous four years will be halted. It's a simple fact. Why? Because we paid off half the debt to the London Club in April and that's how we disbursed the budget, and because here's two consecutive months, we'll see how it went in June, we have a decrease in actually, an absolute level of public debt, because it was at one point over 19 billion, now it's 18.9th, so we're due whenever we can. What is a fact, as we look through history, that the inherited debt in 2001 was very high at 160% of GDP, and it is true that then the path of reducing this public debt through the Paris and London Club reprogrammes, but don't forget that during the government's 2004-2006 mandate, when I was a finance minister, we paid off half the World Bank's debt prematurely, many forget it. To make that a minimum in 2007, public debt fell to something below 30% of GDP. The problems have arisen since 2008 until today, when with 30% of the public debt increased to double, to 60% in just four or five years. In fact, the then public finance minister, or finance, has contributed to the growth of debt as a whole of nine billion for these four years, nine billion euros. We are now at the border that is indeed for countries that are relatively small, such as Serbia, worrying. That's 60% of GDP, because, regardless of what 56.3% is right now, we know that, realistically, by the end of the year, he's going to be around 60% of GDP. All I'm talking about is central government debt, all the time. I'm fairly talking about state-of-the-art data, because we're collecting these data with a certain shift. What is now the task is how Serbia, in a situation where it has an imperative that it has higher economic growth, at the same time knocks down the additional budget deficit, because it is not easy with the inherited almost 7% of the budget deficit from last year, to some acceptable levels, and are acceptable to 3% of GDP. One and a half percent, the goal that we're all really going to do together now is to achieve something that's probably real and probably we can't go down to the annual level anymore. When we talk about public debt, I think we need to be responsible and talk about adequate figures. Of course, I accept full responsibility for this government mandate, but I will not take responsibility for the presidency. Someone mentioned whether someone would be punished for why "Serbian Roads" did not pay VAT back in 2008, when the Finance Ministry then found they had the obligation. Here, now you ask yourselves. Who is the most responsible, is the obligor, who, regardless of interpretation, simply continued not to account for VAT and not to be paid by either the finance minister and the director of the Tax Administration who spent four or five years and didn't even mention it, or asked for that tax to be charged? Maybe they're all responsible together, I don't know, but it's a question if the Director of the Tax Administration, if the finance minister tolerates any company, whatever it is, whether privately or publicly, does not account for VAT, despite opinions that officially come from his own ministry or DRI 2010, then, in my opinion, it's a much greater responsibility personally to the finance minister of that period and the Director of the Tax Administration than to be tolerated from tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19923	National MP Bojan Djuric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19924	I'm sorry, it's an interesting debate, but I think a certain line has been crossed, and that's why I'm advertising the violation of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. You've allowed the minister to present a dilemma that is inadmissible in the rule of law, to measure what is the greater degree of violation of the law. Of course they're both guilty and third because someone didn't pay value added tax and it's an absolutely inadmissible message that it's possible to determine who's guilty, so to speak. There is not even a word in Serbian for such a situation. You see how unacceptable that is. If you ask me, Mr. Dinkic, it's all the parties who held the director of "The Way of Serbia", the man who allowed himself not to do so, who will blame all those who allow public companies to choose beyond the competition in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19925	National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since a colleague from the DS has warned me that I haven't said anything about the budget, so we should return 92 billion dinars to domestic loans based on interest. This government didn't do it, on the side of the loan of 46 billion 300 million dinars. In the period from 2008 to 2012, the National Bank sold four billion euros for the relief of the dinar course and jumped from 80 to 119. You've been so successful. Now the National Bank is holding a stable course and has bought more foreign exchanges on the market than it has sold. If you still want to convince me that Serbia, as it is, owed 14 billion euros, so when multiplied by today's euro rate, that's 18 billion dollars. She didn't owe that much to SFRY. What are you talking about? That's what this is about. Why do you keep supplying flat-rate information? It's true, we'll return only to the name of the interest this year over 140-150 billion. How much of our deficit is that? Two-thirds of the deficit? Three-quarters of the deficit? You're saying this government isn't capable of running public finances? Well, who brought us into this state? Let the worse rule. Here, we're incompetent, but worse has led us to what we're doing and what we live in, and that's what you've been involved in. Don't spray your ashes on it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19927	National MP Bozidar Djelic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19928	Mr. Arsic, thank you for your honesty. You said you were incompetent. That's why I don't have to repeat it here, because you are incapable of running public finances as a government. I'm not saying personally, you're not in charge of this, but the fact is that the SNS will vote within a few days, because this should take effect very quickly, by emergency procedure, to reduce the subsidies to agriculture by three billion dinars. You said 600m euros would be saved on public procurement. I don't see a budget fund in rebalancing that will prove it. We see that almost all public procurement will be cancelled. It's one thing to save on public procurement, and another thing to cancel. Public procurement is something that will provide one of our construction firms with something to do, and we see black on white that all investments in the building, in the building, all these investments, all of it is lifted, unfortunately. When you talk about debt, we've heard from the government nine billion in four years. Okay, so how is that four billion in 10 months? When a child avoids responsibility and tries to constantly transfer to someone else, it can still be understood, but when adults do it, it's something else. It's already for another analysis. Yes, there is a responsibility for all of us. Responsibility exists the moment the government is formed. It was possible to make other decisions. You've been responsible since the end of June. You have made decisions that have led us to an increase in foreign foreign sovereign guaranteed debt of four billion euros. The fact is that if you don't privatize, and we see that the larger privatisations won't be, she's canceled for Telecom, we see that you can't sell either Galenika, or anything else, that means when we see each other, if we don't see each other before for the rebalancing rebalancing until then, that we'll see each other and we can predict that you'll have the deficits for next year and that'll be an additional debt. Will we be responsible for this debt next year? So you're ministers, MPs of the majority, you're responsible. Have minimal responsibility for your functions and four billion euros is mathematically and quite exactly the addition of the debt you have made to our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19929	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19930	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, making an ideal budget is the goal of every government, but sometimes it's really "Sizif's job." Always those who charge the budget will say that they are taken too much, while those others, who receive funds from the budget, will say that they are getting little. The budget is a financial expression of the overall state of affairs in the country and whoever can read it and understands it will see clearly what the key problems of society are. He is a political document expressing government policy and its intentions in figures. The budget is redistributed to a part of social wealth according to that policy. The budget rebalancing is a financial and technical operation aimed at harmonising revenue and expenditure in cases where there is a more significant deviation or imbalance of the revenue and expenditure sides. Therefore, the rebalancing, in addition to this financial and technical aspect, also has real economic and political consequences, as it mainly leads to a reduction in the expenditure of different budget users. Rebalance, in itself, cannot be pre-qualified as something good or bad, as it is here trying to appear as an exclusively negative thing. He is on the occasion that in our public finances are necessary and necessary and as such is positive, because it balances what is not balanced and the only possible response from the government at this time. That's how rebalance sees fiscal advice. However, this rebalancing should be seen in the context of the government's package and in the direction of structural reforms relating to enterprises in restructuring, public enterprises, state administration, preventing the gray economy and reforming the labour market. At this point, there is also a lack of reform of the pension system, but I expect we'll have it next year. What this government is facing, and what we are discussing here today, is what almost every month the largest number of citizens of this country are facing, and that is the difference between income and expenditure. What does a family do that, for any reason, lack of income or decreases? He's doing rebalancing by choosing between paying bills, war on credit, excursion, replacement washing machines, paying an annual vacation, or providing food expenses. He's got to give up something. The only alternative is to borrow money in the neighborhood or to raise a loan in the bank. But alternatives only solve the problem right now. It certainly is a better solution to saving, as long as the revenues don't really increase. That logic must also have a state, which the government essentially showed this rebalancing. It goes to savings, not to a new task, as the previous government did. So it reduces those expenditures from the budget that it estimates are not absolutely necessary and necessary. This primarily refers to transfers to mandatory social insurance organisations, discretionary costs, subsidies, different remunerations for employees and the like. On the other hand, expenditure on social contributions, the Transition Fund, RTS funds and the reaching of certain guarantees add to the expenditure compared to the original budget. This expenditure policy makes it clear the government's idea to protect the most socially vulnerable. We have recently received a date for starting negotiations with the EU. I see these negotiations and the course of accession as a process of breaking up with bad habits from the past. One of those bad habits is that we have always spent more than we have both as a country and as individuals. Another bad habit is that we often shared unearthed. We also got salaries, and we never wondered if we'd earned them. This applies to the entire state administration, employees of public enterprises and those of restructure companies. If we were to go from having a rebalancing, as some here say to the necessary evil, let's also remember those folk sayings that there's something good in every evil, so let's ask ourselves, what's good about this rebalancing? First, without delay, the government will make serious savings and make a restructuring process in 179 state-owned enterprises by the middle of next year. It moves with accelerated corporateisation and the sale of some public enterprises. It's called Galenika, JAT, Dunav, Resavica and others. Uncontrollable employment in the public sector is being completed and a serious account with the grey economy begins. And that billion euros less in the budget, in the state register that we've been hearing about here today, is exactly the one billion euros in citizens and businesses, because that missing billion could be taken from them at the moment alone. A package of fiscal laws that we adopted in May this year showed its first effects. In June, we have the lowest budget deficit since the beginning of the year, only about five billion dinars. Statistics say that GDP growth has been corrected upwards from 1.9% to 2.1%. Unemployment from April this year, compared to April last year, dropped 1.4% and the employment rate increased by 2%. Here, in this place, I will also look back at the comment we heard and the comparison with the unemployment rate of October, which was 22%. However, employment, or unemployment, has a distinct seasonal character, and any comparison with October is inappropriate. It would be as pointless as comparing the crop in July and January of the same year, where it is quite logical that it is completely incomparable. That's why this kind of manipulation doesn't make any sense, because it's known that unemployment is dropping from spring, because of seasonal work, and it happens every year. That is why it is only logical and normal to compare April of this year, when the survey was made, with April last, as should be compared to October of the previous year. Inflation's been put under control. Exports recorded significant growth and imports dropped. The dinar is stable over a long period of time and stronger than last year at this time. These shifts may not be so significant, but as a tendency, they are something that can really build trust for the next period. For consistency, this good that I've been talking about now has its own evil, that is, out of sight. All of these positive trends, other than reducing unemployment and GDP, believe it or not, have a negative effect on budget revenues. It's a good thing we have lower inflation than planned, but that's why we have less revenue in the budget than planned. It's a good thing we're growing exports, but for so much less, we have VAT revenue, due to zero export rates and full refund of all taxes paid. It's a good thing it's smaller imports, but that means less income than import VAT and customs. A stable dinar also reduces budget revenues. This is not the only reason for reduced revenue in the budget, nor justification, but it is a factor that clearly apostrophes and the Fiscal Council. So every thing in public finances and in the economy is always two sides, the better and the worse. So in this case. This does not mean that there is no room for criticism from the government and the finance and rebalancing minister. There is room for this criticism objectively, the assessment of income was not good and it is a real basis for criticism. Despite the factors and reasons the Fiscal Council spoke of. That's what the minister himself said. But what we've heard from some colleagues here today is not criticism but naked criticism without any basis or desire to understand and read this rebalancing. Since becoming the finance minister in this government, the minister has passed a series of measures and laws, saved the state from bankruptcy, relieved the economy, introduced financial discipline into the public sector, abolished 138 parafiscal duties, prevented the collapse of the banking system due to Agrobanka and the Vojvodine Development Bank. It did not dispute any measure taken by the Fiscal Council, except as to whether these measures would be sufficient to achieve the policy objectives. It's about rebalancing. For the Fiscal Council, it is not disputed measures, but it is solely a question of whether these measures are sufficient and whether they should be complemented with even more stringent measures such as wage cuts and pensions, the introduction of income taxes of more than 40,000 dinars, pension reform and others. The fiscal council's reserves have been established, but on the other hand, the question is asked – can Serbia currently withstand such a harsh measure and is there a consensus on this? What I am sure of is that as long as Mladjan Dinkic runs Serbia's public finances, we will also have financial security and regularity in paying salaries and pensions and social contributions. The country's debt will begin to drop significantly since 2015 and by then all key measures concerning restructuring, the end of privatisation and the corporateisation of public enterprises will be completed. From everything said, it is clear that we as a parliamentary group will support this rebalancing which marks a decisive breakup with some bad habits from the past and is heading towards creating a thrifty and more efficient state that will not be uncontrollably in debt, as was the case in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19931	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to the list. The first word is Mr. Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19932	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been hearing today a debate on budget rebalancing, which is on the Finance Committee, which is in this high house. I listen all the time - who's responsible for what happened in the past. I live in the present, and I want to live in the future. Here in this room is all those who have exercised power in the past. As a union leader, I've negotiated with both this side here and Mr. Secretary about all possible incomes. I want to make a public statement here, a responsibility for the biggest debt Serbia has, for the lowest salary, for the debt, for all the unions. You know why unions? Because they did all this and did it. The unions are guilty of losing 500,000 jobs, the unions are guilty of the fact that we have almost the lowest salary in the environment and the unions are guilty of why we had this criminal privatisation and why we lost 500,000 jobs. I don't think that's true. You know that, too, because you know how this privatisation went, how we lost our jobs, and how the companies that gave us some results led to this situation that we're in today. A lot of things have been said about budget rebalancing. I won't add much to that. As soon as the rebalance is made in this period, it means that what was needed has not been done is misjudged and what we need to do is get out of this situation, move forward. I suggest we turn to the future. The future is seen in the following facts – are we ready to go into structural reforms? First, restructuring public enterprises, when do we do them? Well, when we have to. When the law makes us do that, we're restructured, and we'll probably wait 30th of June next year to finish the story. Also, about public enterprises, for the first time, we were encouraged to say that we are reducing subsidies to the railways. We'll talk about this about Resavica, and we can also talk about Galenika. I don't think I'd agree with Mr. Secretary here. It's not the unions' fault that Galenika isn't privatized and why she's not still privatizing. Maybe the question is, why did Galenika come to this state where she is and where is the responsibility of those who led her at some point and did something about her? I ask myself the question all the time – what is the responsibility of the Labour Act, the development of the economy? Why is it that the Labour Act, when trade unions are ready to go on to change the Labour Act, are also ready to abolish the famous severances, are ready to accept the fact that work is extended for a certain period of time for two to three years? It is a matter of negotiations on the socio-economic council, to discuss and trade unions are ready to make much more concessions, but they are not discussed, but it is spoken of as a great advantage to change the Labour Act. Will that mean the worker will work, and he won't get the salary he's earned? Is the worker supposed to work without getting paid? Whether this means changing the Labour Act, and everywhere in the normal world, and Serbia wants to be normal, we struggle to make the person who works and gets paid in time. It's something that's normal. Furthermore, one question that speaks of restructuring is the reform of the PIO Fund. In 2013, it was supposed to go. I don't know why, all the time it's been expected that there's a magic wand for the PIO fund that just needs to change something, so we don't give almost 50% of the contribution budget to the PIO Fund anymore. I don't think that's the answer. The pension fund has already experienced some reforms. He still needs to be reformed in the walk, but we need to talk about this seriously. You don't need to bring in the flats. You must know that the Pension Fund in Serbia currently has a million and seven hundred pensioners and how many members of their families, how many young people can survive in this difficult time? That is why we in the SDPS believe that there is also a need to discuss the fact of how to introduce a solid tax. My colleague Bauer was saying something about percentages, and what we're also up for is a question of solidarity tax. I see no reason not to introduce social tax as a temporary solution. What number is that? Is that going to be 40,000 for employees, and for pensioners it has to be more than 25,000, because, as you know, 60% of pensioners receive up to 25,000? That means we can talk about it, because how we're going to be a socially responsible state if we don't have the elements of solidarity. This is what we are fighting for and what we will insist on as a socially responsible party that insists that in this country everyone has the right to a dignified life, not just a dignified life, but a dignified work. If under decent work we mean, then we are ready to go on behalf of both the unions and as SDPS to amends and supplement of the Labour Act, but provided that there is a wider social consensus, to agree on socio-economic councils and trade unions and employers and states that will be guaranteed. When I say this, I speak for a simple reason, because if we want to talk about the future, then we need to talk about it that way. There's nothing harder if you don't have a job. As a father of kids who don't have a job, I know what it means, what it means to wait for a job, what it means to look for a job. Serbia needs to be hired and we need to talk about this, talk about the future. I see this budget rebalance as just an exorbitant solution, like a bridge to something that will lead us into structural reforms. As we had the strength to answer many difficult questions, the Kosovo issue, to get a date for the start of negotiations, I also personally believe that full social energy must focus on reforming the economy, structural reforms, in order for Serbia to finally start living, that Serbia is moving forward. This is what SDPS will continue to support in its work. Finally, let me say that we will fully support this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19933	Since MP Karolj Cizik is not there, the next word is Parliament MP Miodrag Dzidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19934	Dear Mr Minister, fellow MPs, the ZZS parliamentary group cannot vote for this budget rebalancing for a simple reason because we believe that it is unreal, that it is not good and that it is practically invaluable. Incomes are overrated, and costs seem to be higher, so the projected budget deficit of 178.3 billion dinars, which is now higher by 56.5 billion dinars compared to the one we adopted at the end of last year, is virtually invaluable. We think the deficit will be significantly higher, that it will amount to over 200 million and that is not our opinion, according to the Fiscal Council. I'm afraid in a few months we'll be sitting here talking about rebalance rebalancing. There's something I want to say about the revenues that have significantly failed in the first six months. That's why we're doing this rebalancing. Why did the proceeds fail? First of all, I think the revenues foreseen by the budget have been overrated. Secondly, the minister himself found in his reasoning that the grey economy had grown. The grey economy has improved significantly over the past six months compared to the previous period, which is true. The question arises – what to do? How do you cure this? The minister offers one remedy, which is that the tax administration will work more and better over the next period and will thus be in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as that the tax administration will work together with other authorities, which should improve the inflow of funds into the budget. However, I believe that what has been wrongly done, that the consequences of poor tax policy cannot be corrected in this way and that there is another way. We have seen that what has been done so far, that last year we raised taxes, primarily VAT, profit tax, excise tax, that it has not produced adequate results and that therefore the grey economy is on the rise compared to the previous period. Mr. Minister, I think you need to reduce VAT from 20% to 18% again, to reduce taxes and contributions to earnings and thus allow more people to be able to pay taxes. I don't think many people pay taxes not because they don't want to, but because they can't. Today, my colleague Dusan Petrovic also told you that you should talk to taxpayers to reach some consensus and increase revenues. He said you should talk to lawyers, doctors, hairdressers, etc. With that opinion, I couldn't agree more. I think there's a possibility that this is how income increases. A few years ago, I talked to the caterers about not issuing fiscal bills, how to overcome it, how to issue fiscal bills and pay taxes. Then I heard a good sentence, and I think you should do it later, too, they told me that at the time of Zoran Djindjic, the government of Zoran Djindjic, it was a shame not to pay taxes, that it was a matter of prestige to pay taxes. So if you talk to people, if you find a modus, I'm sure it can become a shame again and the shame of those who don't pay taxes. Try to work it out through the conversation. You spoke on subsidies today. The subsidies were reduced by 7.8 billion and 8.5%, respectively. I know it has to be done because without a reduction in subsidies, there can be no good rebalancing. What's not good is that of those 7.8 billion is a 3.4 billion reduction in subsidies for agriculture. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment and we will discuss it when the amendments are discussed. What I'm saying is, today you're talking about a restructuring company, which is very important to me. It's important for 56,000 people who need to solve the problem in the next period, and 56,000 people times four family members, that's 200,000 people directly interested in this. You said today there are three categories of companies. One category of enterprises is the one that already, and those are 27, is due to go bankrupt during this summer. You said that 300 euros per year will be paid to workers who lose their jobs on behalf of the social programme. But the reason for the rebalancing is that it will eventually be paid, so I'd ask you to say, is it possibly going to be paid, or are people who are out of a job, because their companies are going to go bankrupt, really, they're going to be paid? You were talking about a third group of companies, which I am also very interested in, and these are enterprises and large companies like "The Five-year-old" and "14 October". You cited the example of "Petolets" that she will surely find a strategic partner, that it is ongoing and that this will be resolved very quickly, but you also said that for "14 October" from Kruševec no one is interested, that there are no strategic partners and that you will try to find a strategic partner. However, I am interested in what will happen to 1,800 workers "October 14" if, despite all your efforts and efforts of the entire government, you do not find a strategic partner as much as possible? What's going to happen to these people? Will they stay on the street, they and their families, the town of Krushevac? Kruševac is known for October 14th, and if these people stay on the street, the whole town will be in big trouble. In the end, you talked about sports. It's very good of you to say that sport remains, of course, the amount of funds as foreseen in the budget. Also two days ago, on Friday, in Krusevec, at a cabinet session, you said that a beautiful picture of Serbia was transmitted by Novak Djokovic, water poloists and basketball players. Novak Djokovic will continue to carry a nice picture of Serbia, but I fear that water and basketball players will no longer be able to do so, as the Serbia Water polo Union owes over a million euros at the moment, which is why they cannot find the president either. The Partizan basketball club also owes a million euros on behalf of the tax. I think their account's been blocked. I wonder what the state will do to help these collectives overcome the crisis and represent us in Europe in the fall in the best light? If you don't help them, I'm afraid they won't have anyone to carry a nice picture of Serbia about us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19935	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19936	And sports clubs need to do what they do with other firms in restructuring. They have more options. One is to advance the prepared plan of reorganisation and resolve the issue of debts from the past in this way, and then to pay the current commitments properly. That goes for all clubs. Some clubs did, some didn't. I don't see any other solution. We can't forgive anyone. From the data, I saw that, for example, forced payment was charged to the Serbian basketball union in June of five-six million dinars, how much they owed for taxes. It's been charged to various other institutions. We must have equal treatment. The solution is that if they have money to pay players, they have to pay what they have to do to the state, there's no dilemma there, and they have to spread as much as they can. If that's something more, then they have to take a loan from the bank, or take more sponsors. It's just that there's no other way. Cities that can stand behind cultural institutions behind sports organisations. We gave a motive for sponsors that 5% of the base profit tax, if given in sport, culture, humanitarian action is rejected from the basics. We changed that a month ago. We wanted to motivate sponsorship in this area. I don't blame clubs because it's been tolerated so far. It's simple, there's got to be order and there's got to be a draw. If one club pays taxes on a regular basis, everyone else has to. If some are unable to pay debts from the past, if they have not paid taxes for five or six years, it is clear that they have to create some pre-prepared restructuring plan and thus resolve debts. That goes for the Partizan basketball club and any other club, whether it's football or basketball, it doesn't matter. There's a possibility and a reprogramme for two years. That means they need to provide an adequate guarantee, or a bank account, or give houses, cars as a guarantee to the tax administration. If they can do that to people who do business, they should also do to those who have a lot of fees in sports.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19937	Mr. Miodrag Djidic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19938	I agree with what you said. Anyway, these clubs need help and I think the state has to stand behind them. You mentioned tax administration and tolerance, and I'd like to say something about it. It seems to me that today you have repeatedly mentioned the tax administration from 2007 to 2012 in a negative context. I don't want to be their lawyer, but for the sake of truth, it should be said that the tax administration in the period from July 2007 to July 31, 2012 has always charged as planned. She was never under the plan. She used to transfer that plan. He used to be on the level of purpose. I would also tell you that during that period, non-insultary fiscal accounts ranged around 30%, and the grey economy was about 30%, which is approximately at some European level. Unfortunately, today we have that not issuing fiscal accounts is 42%, that the grey economy is about 40%. It's not the tax administration's fault, it's the bad system measures. Don't blame the IRS. You know very well that there are only 800 inspectors there, and I think the need is much greater and that simply these people can't physically get to carry out all the controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19939	Minister Dinkic called again for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19940	To be absolutely clear, I never will nor will I ever blame the people who work in the IRS, but those who issue orders to them, finance ministers. If it is tolerated not to check the report with the GPRS system, the Director of the Tax Administration may be responsible and may be the Minister of Finance responsible. If it is tolerated, for example, that VAT is not accounted for despite the opinion of the fiscal sector of the Ministry of Finance, that it must be accounted for, then it is the Minister or Director of the Tax Administration for not carrying out and not ensuring the implementation of the report, not the people employed in the Tax Administration. The tax administration will certainly give the expected result, if the command over it is good. That'll show. It was already shown in June. I said that when it started to go much more seriously into the attack on the gray economy, much higher income was made than the previous months, although it wasn't some special month for VAT. It's only now in July that we have a three-month VAT payment. About 70 billion were charged, 75 billion were expenses. We had only five billion budget deficits. Of course, it is not easy to maintain in all months until the end of the year, and the Tax Administration has already proved in June that it can perform this function, but that's why the "Working childhood" of Novi Sad was blocked, so the tax debt paid by the City of Novi Sad, the TV "Pink" was blocked, so they paid 180 million dinars, and literally everyone who owes is blocked. There's literally one treatment being made, and that's how it's going to be in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19941	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19942	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I express my position on budget rebalancing, a little comment. When a citizen looks at this debate about budget rebalancing, they get a confusing picture. Everyone has done something great, done best, and Serbia has been in a difficult economic and social situation for several years. It doesn't go with each other. I took, to remind myself, during the 2012 budget rebalancing debate, in September of the month, quote – the worst possible situation for a country exists if there is so-called. a double deficit, if there is high inflation in the economy, if you have a recession. All these four things were present in Serbia. The double deficit means that the budget deficit has historically reached 7.1 GDP, that the current balance of payments deficit has also reached a very high situation of over 10%, that the public debt goes to 60%, etc. Let's make it our starting point when we're making a comparison. The SPS parliamentary group's position was expressed by our colleague Zoran Kasalovic, and he has full support on this. I'll just say it from a few angles. First, I will remind you that when we discussed the 2013 budget, I evaluated the bold draft budget, asked and agreed to follow and respond over its implementation. It's responsible behavior. The government reacted in the first half of the year, and that's not a big deal. It's terrible that deviations happen without reacting. So the deviations are primarily due to income. They're here to give reasons why it's like that. Obviously the way it was planned wasn't real. I want to point out one detail that I heard today in the presentation of Mr. Minister, which is that the expenditures did not exceed the planned framework. I draw the conclusion from that the government has not acted wastefully. So, these deviations despite positive economic indicators, I'm sorry that you're kind of quietly saying that, Mr. Minister, that, and if I'm not mistaken, it's a mild recovery of economic activity. Without economy, without production there are no new money, no new employment, and this is the direction for you, for the government to continue to accelerate export growth, slow down import growth, automatically reducing the external trade deficit. Why am I saying this? A 12% reduction in deficits, if I'm not wrong, compared to the same period last year, a slowdown in inter-annual inflation, did I remember all this well, real GDP growth in the first quarter, the physical volume of industrial production, and in particular there was a high growth in capital products. The budget is liquid for at least six months. I ask you to make this clearer and louder, because there is quite a political statement in the public that Serbia is in front of bankruptcy. The sentence has a political background, but the sentence does not harm you, Vlad, but damages Serbia. That's why I think you should highlight these things. Of course, don't run away from it. It's high unemployment. I'm looking forward to that data that I heard today that at least 24 comas were stopped something and it's almost but, well, 2% employment. So, this one trend has been stopped, and there is no greater and more important task in Serbia than employment. So, all of this when considering, simply, the government proposed a rebalancing as part of an economic plan in a broader sense, because they wanted to react to deviations with the aim of achieving stability of public finances and to reduce the fiscal deficit to a sustainable level, through measures to reduce public expenditures, in income not to increase taxes, but better collection, savings at all levels, structural reforms, measures to improve the investment climate. I chose these five, but what I mean. I want to go back to this issue, in Serbia, there is a difficult economic and social situation, and that is Government's number one priority and that everyone else, too, depends on it. That's why we all need to take this commitment together and the responsibility to stop this economic downturn, to go into economic recovery. What I want to praise, to support and to ask is that there is a need for a consensus that the government is making with both businessmen and trade unions, with financial experts, etc. You can't get out of this economic and social situation without it. I ask that this dialogue continue, this debate to seek the best solutions. When it comes to budget rebalance, just a few more sentences. The government has defined that it reduces expenditures, strengthens tax discipline, and when it comes to expenditures, it is reducing discretionary expenditures, introducing new rules for planning the mass of wages and pensions. When a single register plus a central account is added, I think it is an important and important issue. I want to support this position and make the next request, which is that we support the government for having managed to endure the pressure not to freeze and not to reduce wages and pensions, but to increase them as much as possible. I have two more, three questions. So, when it's being watched in general, the issue of implementing the maximum profit law is raised. Is he being executed properly? Is everyone covered? Is there a gray economy there, smuggling? The second question - is the government considering adopting a new law on the salaries of state officials? The biggest space there is. You don't know what this looks like anymore. The President of the Republic has a salary, I guess, because he's doing the job irresponsiblely, maybe 150,000. I'm talking about government officials. All of them independent, free, I don't know what to call them all, on their own, like we're paying independence, independence and all that, have three or four times the salary. Is the government considering proposing a law where order will be introduced? So, I'm not asking for more pay, I'm asking for order, to know exactly how everyone should share it in Serbia. The second question is whether the government is considering progressive taxation when it comes to profits, solidarity tax, to pay the most for those who have the most, and those who have less to pay less and one certain limit to pay nothing? It's a short warning again. Tax revenues do not increase, or taxes do not increase. What the government wants in this budget rebalancing is full tax discipline, curbing illegal traffic and strict control of tax collection. Please, let the government show some courage here, and let's finally get that thing off the dead end. In Serbia, the culture of non-payment of everything and everything prevailed. In Serbia, taxes must be paid, contributions must be paid. The government is not wrong, there is a huge number of people, teachers, teachers, doctors, problem solving in the field of health, education, judiciary, police, military etc. I am going back to the basic question - taxes and contributions must be paid in Serbia and the point. I know this government can't go all the way, but let it bravely get into that business and pull the leg. We have also proposed strengthening the capacity of the tax administration and all that needs to be armed by that body, but to introduce it. At the end of the day, I don't want to owe the next two measures relating to the implementation of structural reforms and measures to improve the investment climate, I just want one warning about it. When it comes to restructuring companies, please, what kind of privatisation, that's what restructuring is all about. I just wonder if in the past ten years it's really been done to solve these problems until the end or not? Now let's solve them both when it comes to restructuring and when it comes to measures to improve the investment climate. Of course, building permits don't have any dilemmas, we have a lot of support. When it comes to the labour market, I want to add that when it comes to structural reforms, I think it is indisputable in Serbia. The government has to get into something like that. The medium-term programme should create more favourable conditions for investors, for economic growth. I said, no economy, no production, no new money, no new employment, no budget. We're going from hollow to empty. So, it's all like that, but I want to point out that, in addition to the need for reforms, both economic and social, neither of them can succeed unless they're socially just. I can't make it. It's not another philosophy. That is why we believe and insist that the government continues to create a social consensus in Serbia, affirming social dialogue, including social partners and the government and employers and trade unions and constantly, day and night, as long as it takes, to discuss all these issues with them, to express real social dialogue, because without a social agreement, it is difficult for it to succeed in these reforms in the next period. Taking into account the interests of employers, creating conditions that it has an even greater profit, but also taking into account the interests of workers, you will allow, usually it is broken over them, and the worker, and through these changes that are announced, must become a man, not a cost, a man who contributes profits to the employer, but at the same time deserves regular, orderly, decent earnings, paid contributions, etc. So, it can't be just a cost from a profit angle, it has to be a man. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-01-0.u19943	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, this is what we end today's session. The session will be held tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
