ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13364	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to now insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP: Milica Radovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dejan Popovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Dejan Trifunović, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection and Zoran Ibrović, Senior Advisor at the same ministry. We continue to work and move on the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda -PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON EFFICAL CORRESPONDENTS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Dragomir J. Karić, Nebojsa Zelenović, Teodora Vlahović, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Ivan Jovanovic, Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Vojić Marković and Ivan Karić and the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, submitted an amendment to Article 5. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragomir J. Karic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Teodora Vlahović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović submitted the 5th amendment together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13365	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the People, on Article 5, i.e. at Article 29(5), MP Janko Veselinovic and I have submitted an amendment that concerns the need to specify the definition of energy efficiency programme. In this part of defining the energy efficiency programme, the plan document adopted by the unit of local self-government, i.e. the second obligor of the energy planning management system, etc. So, starting from the logic of this law and from Article 4, where the public sector is separated from the companies that do the production and transmission of energy, then buildings, households, etc., there is also a category of other energy users. We therefore felt that in Article 5, point 29., other levels of public authority should be defined, precisely in accordance with the spirit of the law which speaks separately of public authority from others. Given the opinion given, I have a need to further explain this. I'll use, aside from the two minutes I have the right to propose, and the time of the parliamentary group. In the opinion given by the Government, it called for a decision of the Constitutional Court relating to Article 68 from points 1 to 4. Law on the transfer of jurisdiction in relation to autonomous province. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court has this opinion, in addition to the disputed part of points 1 to 4, has its own comment. A comment that can be suggested here from the government's opinion is that in the field of energy, an autonomous province has no original competences, but can be trusted. So, the area of energy can be in the area of trusted business. If we go back to the Constitution now, then you have two members who are interesting here. One is the demarcation of jurisdiction, Article 177 paragraph 2. The constitution, which states that issues of republican, regional and local importance are determined by law and by another member, is a member that refers to the trust of jurisdiction, under which the republic's autonomous province and local self-government can trust issues from their jurisdiction, and by law. All the time the Constitution mentions and writes the law in a small letter. This means that they can be laws from different areas, not only apply to one law. Also, in terms of rights, obligations, supervision, etc., the same Article 178 says that the issue of obligations, supervision, entrusted transactions is also determined by law. If what we have before us is a bill of law, and I don't think anyone has challenged it, then this is a law that I can trust in business. With that in mind, I'd like to say that the amendment we've submitted cannot possibly be unconstitutional and out of the legal system. I wouldn't agree with that. Then, we have another applicable law, and it's a parent law in the field of energy. I remind you of the article. Five, eight and ten. The Energy Act was passed in 2011. He had two fluctuations in 2012, not disputed. The law said that the draft part of the programme for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the autonomous province's competent authority, was delivered within 30 days at the request of the ministry. Furthermore, not to burden myself, it is said that the autonomous province can also collect data from the energy field and in particular development plans, Article 10, which defines what the plan is to develop an autonomous province and local self-government. The question arises, then, that it is constitutionally entrusted from the part of its jurisdiction to the local self-government, and it is not constitutionally and with the legal system to trust the autonomous province with the same jobs. It's even more interesting because we thought we should define the program. The bill defines budgets in autonomous provinces as well as in local self-governments and republics to be spent on this purpose. I wonder how we're going to spend that budget if we can't have a program or pay on one level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13366	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13367	Just a few things. As you know, there are a lot of amendments to this topic from your MP group. What I'm trying to say is that the Energy Act is definitely going to change over the next few months, which is because of the third liberalisation package that we certainly have to do, which is precisely because we want to bring it into line with the Constitution about this programme that you're talking about, etc. I also have to tell you that the practice of countries is that this area of energy efficiency is certainly centralized and that it is part of a single policy. First of all, that is exactly how the action plan is implemented, therefore, raising energy efficiency and the programme of achieving energy efficiency, licensing, etc. In addition to what you mentioned in the fund itself, it is absolutely no problem to raise money, and you asked – and how will it be financed afterwards? It will be funded on the basis of annual programmes. I hope that I have explained to you in some way that, therefore, the original powers cannot be trusted, we have given jurisdiction precisely because of the need to regulate it in this way, i.e. to raise energy efficiency in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13368	Replica, Mrs. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13369	So you agree with me that jobs can be trusted and that our amendments are then not against constitutionality and that they are not in accordance with the legal system, that this is a proposal, in fact, for centralization. If something is centralized, if it makes sense to centralize, then something at all levels of government is centralized. There are just so many subjects that you have to trust a part of the business at all levels of government to do as best as possible this matter can. Efficiency, I think this is very important for our society. So trusting someone to do something doesn't just mean giving them the rights, mostly, I'm looking at trust, given when you trust, you keep surveillance, I'm looking at obligations, duties, tasks that need to be carried out, which I believe should be maintained at every level of government. In my view, it is incomprehensible that the next amendment to the Energy Act will bring even more centralisation. I don't think in such an area it can function that efficiently.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13370	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13371	The new energy law proposal will not bring more centralisation, but will bring integrated governance. Secondly, we've centralized the procedure, but the finances haven't been centralized. So, right away, I should also be clear in Article 63 of this Act on rational use of energy, i.e. efficient use of energy, the competent authority of an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government can identify specific financial and other incentives, the establishment of budget funds, as well as the use of funds from existing, own funds for the realisation of projects and other activities for the efficient use of energy in its territory in accordance with the law and regulations governing the work of these bodies. There is certainly a possibility, and on the basis of the annual programme, it is likely to define what are priorities. Just so we're clear, so the finances aren't centralized.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13372	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13373	The problem with the explanation of the amendments submitted by my colleagues, Janko Veselinovic and Teodora Vlahovic, is very serious, especially if I quote now Minister Mihajlovic's answers. Therefore, the essence of the amendment is that an autonomous province can, has the right under the laws and jurisdictions of the existing and applicable Energy Act and is completely outside of the Constitutional Court decisions on jurisdiction, to adopt a programme of use. The board says it's unconstitutional and the government says it's unconstitutional. I mean, you have to make up your mind. Does this mean that the Energy Act is unconstitutional, and does this mean that here it will be considered a reasonable answer that the Energy Act will change, whenever it changes, and where you get the security that the proposed solution in the Energy Act will be as you propose in the basic proposal. No law, I will repeat the rule of Peter Struk from Bundestag – no law in Bundestag can come out the same way he entered, it happens in luck in the National Assembly. So, in an attempt to defend the indefensible that happened because of ignorance and because of the emotional attitude when the word of Vojvodina is read, which should not happen on the Constitutional Affairs Committee, especially not in the ministries, you are now failing this amendment for an unconstitutional quote – that it will be funded on the basis of an annual programme where you reject the amendment that Vojvodina has the right to the programme. He can't do both. Then you claim that the procedure will be centralized and the finances will remain decentralised. And in some other law that will already be changed in the future. I know most people can decide what they want for as long as most of them are. Sometimes it's reasonable, whole, meaningful, smart, sometimes it's not. For a time, I've been in the majority of these things, for some time I haven't. But this is an obvious slip. No lapuscalamis, this is lapus mentis. This is where the amendment is rejected as unconstitutional. The minister's explanation says it is constitutional that the duke has a programme and that funding from the Vojvodina budget fund will continue. Then I have to tell you that you're going to have to change some more laws, because if you think that Vojvodina can do without a program, without the authority of the threat, that there's a program of use, that it has a budget fund and gives money, then you're going to have to change the Law on the budgetary system and on public finances because it's forbidden by other laws. If you don't have a program, then you can't use funds on any basis that you've got them, especially funds in the budget fund that are intended. As the children say, one serious mistake is being made out of the full-greeds, and completely unnecessary, it is not even about accepting the amendment that colleagues Janko Vesenović and Teodora Vlahovic made, it is about seeing together what happens if this vote adopted on the day of voting when we talk about the adoption of a law on efficient use of energy. It's completely unnecessary. So, if the problem is to write autonomous provinces, if it's a problem for many to understand that Vojvodina is good news for Serbia, then at least not for us who know and read as much as anyone else is talking about the unconstitutional amendment, and then in a situation where we have that amendment in the procedure. It's a very serious thing that endangers and culture procedures and respect procedures for us, congregation bodies. Therefore, if the amendment is non-constitutional, a decision should be taken on it to reject it. This did not happen because it was understood to vote with emotion and heart, not base paper. Don't do that. No need, absolutely no need. If the intention is to fix all this by some future law, it's not an argument. What will the future law look like who knows? Perhaps the future law will suggest that Vojvodina for the budget fund has a program for efficient use of energy, and we will have written before us that the board and that the government has said that the autonomous province can have a program unconstitutional, or that it is not in accordance with the Constitution. There is no demand for this amendment for anything which has not already been provided by the previous law or for anything to become the original jurisdiction since, by its definition, jurisdiction has been entrusted. But with my contribution, this discussion requires that we respect the rules that we have written for ourselves, that we respect the procedure that we have attributed and that we do not play with things that are not for the game just because we have most. It happens to most people, and if most people are deaf to the observation that something isn't to play with, it's never good for most. I am also saying this from personal experience and from the purest of good intentions that we are responsible for the subject, which says that the autonomous province has a trusted competence for efficient use of energy. The fact is that if we remain stubborn about something not being constitutional, and we are still discussing it, and if we remain stubborn in mentioning the unconstitutional provisions that do not apply to this amendment, it will not do anyone any good. So you can reject this amendment, it was the right committee that he didn't use because they understood that the assessment of non-constitution was simply untrue, that's why we're talking about him. And if we really want to make a shift in the clear definition of what and how with the budget fund that the province is for an efficient use of energy programme, you can accept this amendment, you can stay on the previous text of the law, and we all mean that among others, the AP Vojvodina. This way, we will all come together to the problem of whatever provisions to be in the future energy law for which, of course, the Government has the right to propose to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13374	Thank you. The word is Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13375	Let's be clear right now. This amendment has been rejected since you said at one point, that I quote you now, that we should refuse or accept. The amendment was denied, as far as I know. Secondly, of course we are discussing here because I want the citizens of Serbia, when they listen to you, not to think that the government of Serbia, especially this Ministry of Energy, Development, environmental protection, has any, first wrong intention, or that, as it can be concluded from your discussion, we simply have any problem with what is going on with Vojvodina, its competences, etc. But the fact is also that the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province was on the assessment of constitutionality and that they ceased to be valid for the original jurisdiction of the Autonomous province, which is ultimately foreseen by this amendment and that nothing that is contrary to the Constitution could be part of Serbia's legal system. Also, the annual programme, which is designed to implement one of these laws, or in general to realise projects in the field of energy efficiency, implies that it will be used absolutely by all parts of Serbia and Vojvodina and Belgrade and Kragujevac and Trstenik, etc. It also implies that if, possibly, Vojvodina, from some of the already existing funds, as I have already read in the 63rd, I believe that it can do more for certain energy efficiency projects, we have left it as an option, not for Vojvodina, but for any other city and local self-government in Serbia. To be clear, the Constitution must be respected, on the other hand, our desire and not only our wish, but our task is to raise energy efficiency in the coming period. And when I talked about it, I only spoke from the point of view of the energy situation and of raising energy efficiency. I absolutely didn't get into any other jokes, which you tried through your discussion in one way or another to suggest, to get us into an additional discussion now. I don't think there's any need for that. There's no emotional state you're talking about. So it is very clear that energy efficiency in Serbia must be raised. How are we going to do this through projects, through an annual programme and a centralised annual action plan, not because there is a difference between Vojvodina and central Serbia, but because it is a practice in absolutely every state, which has such a law. And that practice turned out to be good. So, the annual program exists, but on the other hand, and the possibility that if some city and local self-government thinks they can do more, it will invest additionally on that basis. But from the annual programme, hence the Republic, the whole, of course, that projects will also be funded on the territory of Vojvodina, as well as on any other territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13376	Replica, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13377	Thank you. I would really like to ask your associates to help you with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the jurisdiction of individual committees. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, neither accepts nor refuses, so I ask you to correct yourself or help your associates to correct you when you claim that this amendment has been rejected on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives shall assess whether the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system or not. In cases where the Committee assesses that the amendment does not comply with the legal system and the Constitution, the Committee shall vote on the rejection of the amendments. An amendment rejected may not be the subject of a search in particular at the plenary session of the National Assembly. I just said that's the whole problem. It's a voice of emotion, and it's not a voice based on knowledge. And the committee voting process has also led to the disclosing of the problem that we are now warning, thanks to colleagues Janko Veseinović and Teodori Vlahovic, who we will all have together both the government and the MPs who voted for rejection, so you also did not think that the amendment that comes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is accepted or rejected. That's just not the case. That's all I'm talking about. It's all written somewhere. The program is entrusted with jurisdiction. If you have a budget fund, then you have to have a program to know how to use the budget fund. If it's an argument, we'll pass a different law and that simple argument can't be, because we don't know what the law is going to look like. What's quoted is quoted and can be checked in the stenogram. This isn't about gambling between MPs within the board or MPs and representatives of the government. This is about simple facts that everyone can read and which are available to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13378	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Let me just tell you before I give you my word, and for the first time I have found myself in a situation like this, however, in consultation with my colleagues in the service and, of course, by establishing the Rules of Procedure and Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, I am not able to make an amendment that the Committee has not rejected, rejected and placed on the table. We fully agree, and it was logical for me, that if a decision has been made, that the amendment is not in line with the Constitution and the legal system, that this amendment does not require the Assembly to declare itself. However, since the board has not voted in favour of rejection, we are now forced to hold a debate in the tide on each of these amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13379	We can talk about these termological things, but what matters to me is one mistake that's now being subdued so there's no problem again. The annual programme being created is not based on the future energy law, which will certainly change, so what it will look like eventually will be adopted, and I deeply believe in in accordance with all EU directives, because it is very important to us and with certain things that this country must also meet under the Energy Act of the countries of Southeast Europe, whose member we are. So, first of all, the third package of liberalisation, but it also concerns harmonisation, given that the Energy Act still operates in the Energy Efficiency Agency, etc. This annual programme, which I mention for projects and energy efficiency, is defined, that is, being created under this law which, I believe, we will adopt in the next few days, a law on rational use of energy. So, not according to some law that we plan to change anyway in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13380	Thank you. Replica, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13381	The annual programme under this law can be made by Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Vršac, Kruševac, Kraljevo and have a budget fund, Vojvodina cannot, that is what we are talking about. You forbid this member to do so by the province, and the province has a budget fund. I mean, it's not complicated, how can I tell you? The annual program remains the right to bring in every local self-government. We wanted the amendment to say "local self-government" and "autonomous province" to make it clear that it does not say that Vojvodina is "other". You say with this amendment, it's unconstitutional to mention Vojvodina making a program. Then you say - but he can use the budget fund. It's quite simple, it's not in any kind of contact with the Constitutional Court's decision on trusted jurisdiction. It's not in any kind of contact with the law on the transfer of established competences, but it's simply an existing law from the law that you have reached with this amendment, and I appreciate it emotionally, it's my right, absolutely unnecessary, and then you answer me - the programme will be brought. It won't be brought for Vojvodina if this is unconstitutional. Please either leave it "other" or accept the amendment despite your misrepresentation or the wrong vote at the board's session. It's quite simple, it's not about the Constitutional Court's decision, it's about meeting the programme that Vojvodina has entrusted jurisdiction, as well as Kruševac, Cačak, Kralje, Prepolje, Novi Sad whichever city you want, or local self-government. We just said as we don't order cities, but we write "local self-government", don't write "others", let it say "autonomic province", there's nothing else in this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13382	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13383	I totally agree with you, it's very simple, but you didn't seem to understand that there are two programs. One is the funding programme for energy efficiency projects defined under the law that we are going to adopt, and another is the programme that stands here for you on the basis of the amendments, which concerns the strategy and the development of energy. Now I'm going to read it to you, and you probably read it, but you didn't understand. It says very clearly here that I do not read - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the establishment and implementation of a single energy policy in Article 6. The proposal for a law in accordance with Article 96. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which established the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia in this area. By decision of the Constitutional Court and the Law laying down the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province, the Official Messenger, etc., disagreed with Article 183(2). The constitution, which has ceased to apply the disputed original jurisdiction of the autonomous province under this law, under which an autonomous province through its authorities proposes part of the energy development programme. Therefore, this is not for the annual funding programme for energy efficiency projects, so it has ceased to be part of the programme for the achievement and development of energy in its territory, in line with the plan for the development of the AP Vojvodina, which forms an integral part of the energy development strategy. So two are different things, two are programs. The two programmes are precisely because the Energy Act, among other things, would be harmonised, it would certainly change. You said yourself, what will it look like? We'll see, I agree with you, but we're talking about the Rural Energy Use Act now and we're talking about the annual project funding programme. So the annual project funding programme will certainly not exempt Vojvodina, as neither part of Serbia's territory will be excluded. Me, as someone who deals with energy, that's the most important thing, how are we going to finance projects, and will all projects be funded, across Serbia's territory, what are the priorities? Now that you're going to talk for 10, 15 minutes, half an hour and I'm going to argue with you, you're going to replicate, etc., on this subject because it's interesting to the public, okay, but I'm just telling you that it's the most important thing, but I really believe that all energy efficiency projects are as much financed in our territory as possible, because we really are, but we really are an energy inefficient society. It's the interest and purpose of this law, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13384	Thank you. I think that all the replicas of this amendment are enough, we move on to Article 6, the amendments are... (Gordana Comić, from the post: I want to use the time of the parliamentary group. You want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13385	I thank you, I use the time of the parliamentary group. I thank the Minister, you said – these are two different things. That's what I'm telling you. You reject an amendment that does not require original jurisdiction, because the Constitutional Court has assessed the unconstitutional original jurisdiction of the second law. These are trusted responsibilities, that's what we tell you all the time, two different things. There is no demand for original jurisdiction here, nor can this law establish original competences, but under the Constitution, trusted competences can be established by any law. That's two different things, that's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about emotional voting, not what's being read. In an attempt to convince you, you're telling me my argument. Your assessment, the ministries and the committee that the amendment is unconstitutional speaks of this other different matter, and it does not speak of the law we are discussing, nor of the fact that it is unconstitutional to trust jurisdiction with local self-government or the Vojvodina. When it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction, this assembly has dealt with the best possible way of restoring jurisdiction or the well-founded jurisdiction of the autonomous province, so in the laws and constitutions or in the AP Vojvodina there were different ideas, they were all legitimate. One of the ideas was that each law, these were colleagues from the DSS MPs' club very detailed and thoroughly elaborated, that in each of the laws that we are passing, the emphasis that part of the jurisdiction is entrusted to the Autonomous province. They thought it was in accordance with the Constitution, and it is, it can and can. They felt it was good for dialogue between parliamentary groups, interpartial dialogue, or generally, dialogue on how to decentralisation in a legal and constitutional way, to decentralised jobs. Our amendment is only in that same tone in accordance with the Constitution and the law. So it's about the trustee, not the original jurisdiction. The whole story of the decision-making process on the committee itself and our warning, most certainly, that it is wrong to decide in this way, serves nothing but what seems logical to us and we are with you when you talk about increasing energy efficiency. We are with you when you propose, perhaps unpopular moves about what needs to be done in order for cities or Serbia as a whole or AP Vojvodina to be more energy efficient, because it is necessary. The message of such an assessment of the amendments by both the government and the committee is that if you want the autonomous province to deal with energy efficiency, it is unconstitutional. It's just not true. If we ever have a debate in this assembly about original competences, any original powers, then the argument that original jurisdiction, let's say, is legitimate, cannot be within the energy sector, it can be quite legitimate, but we don't talk about it. We are talking about the will to be made from the budget fund, to be based on the use programme, as a trusted job to local self-government and others, in what is left, not to say "others", but to write "autonomial province". Indeed, it's not complicated and it's not even about different political ideas and attitudes, because we agree with energy efficiency and we know how difficult it will be to really implement what's smart to use energy, whether you produce it, then make it smart to produce energy or transfer it, so you smartly transfer it or do it in a smart way, cheap, thrifty, efficient, thorough or waste it, so you do it in the best possible way, with the least possible losses, because it's all money and our common resource. I don't believe that there's any argument that I can share with you, and to be absolutely without the rest clearly that it's not about gambling that's party, it's not about different ideas, but it's about the simple fact that there's an evaluation that's wrong on the board, it's about you saying that it's two different things, because it's not about our original jurisdiction and it's about our intention to make this amendment, whether we convince you or not, we do it without any doubt what the idea of the amendment is. Instead of the word "other" in the Law on Effective Energy Use, it stands for "autonomial province". All right. It's not the original jurisdiction, it's trusted, like Kruševac or Novi Sad, it's not the original responsibility for the program, it's the trust. It's really simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13386	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13387	That's right. In order for this law to be implemented, and this law requires an action plan to raise energy efficiency, this law should also produce, in addition to the action plan, the realisation programme itself, i.e. raising energy efficiency. In order for him to live up to all his sublegal acts, that job must be done at the level of the entire state, so centralised. It's not a trusted jurisdiction because the concept is such that we didn't trust jurisdiction. Action plan, licensing, energy management and everything this law assumes, and there is a lot of newspapers and I am glad that we agree that energy efficiency should be increased, but that can only be done centralisedly. I've given you more and more examples, too, because I've told you that in all the countries in the region it's just as well done. When an action plan is developed to raise energy efficiency, which is otherwise defined by that annual programme that you mentioned about energy efficiency, it is defined by the ministry. So we left it centralized. We didn't trust that possibility to anyone just because it's the only way to get to the necessary parameters to raise energy efficiency faster. When an action plan is made and further away from documents, Serbia proposes to send it to the energy community and does not send Vojvodina or any other part of Serbia. I believe we understand each other now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13388	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13389	Thank you. We cannot agree at all, Minister, since we are not discussing the proposal for an action plan law, we are talking about programmes relating to, according to your proposal, local self-government. You have to decide what you want. If you want your argument to be that it can't say "autonomic province" because the action plan will prescribe everything, why does it say "local self-government"? In other words, I am not discussing an action plan, as I am not even discussing the future draft energy law. I'm discussing a member who's in front of me, where we're talking about a program of use, where it says "unit of local self-government and others". What will be your action plan for the rest of you? Although that's not what I'm interested in, it's going to be a matter for the board before which you'll come up with an action plan or not. Our amendment says that what you've devoted to local self-government, which we agree with, is that you also target an autonomous province and that instead it doesn't say "other". You're making a completely wrong argument, that we're looking for original jurisdiction, that's incorrect, and you're arguing that there's going to be a better law that's going to solve the decision-making process, which we're not arguing at all, and you're finally telling you -- no matter what it says in this article, there's going to be an action plan that's going to be centralized, because it has to be centralized. What does "local self-government" say to you then? Not both, especially if you are talking to people who understand the sector and in the area, if you are talking to people who have set up the Southeast European Energy Community, if you are talking to people who are detailed about directives, action plans and 2020 strategies, 2050, when it comes to the EU. This amendment cannot be considered unconstitutional. You can't give us an explanation of the government where you're talking about an unconstitution that, in your words, refers to a very different matter. You can't give me as an argument an action plan in which everything will be settled. We are talking about the amendment, about the search in particular and the amendment requires that, with the words "local self-government unit", and instead of "others or together" the words "others" are also said "autonomous province". Nothing more and nothing less, with the agreement of the Action Plan, with the agreement that the energy efficiency of the ministry's concern is with the intention that, obviously, to my great regret, I cannot explain to you that this amendment allows you to have a dialogue and more efficient implementation of reforms in the field of energy efficiency because the government of Vojvodina can, as I can do much better by some local self-government. If you suggest that you have a list of local self-governments that you will, as you do in Europe, mark in different colors, so that the first 20 or 30 most willing to have a special status, I will benefit you from the capacity you have on the ground with a raca, not an emotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13390	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13391	All amendments that follow, a few of them, have the same logic. The logic was that if Article 6 defines the obligations of the Republic in this part, which are obligations of local self-government. Local self-government has a program and energy efficiency plan. The energy efficiency programme and plan also have all other bonds of the energy management system. From all the reasons and what's written, what's been received on the board here, it says that the province should belong to other energy system taxpayers. Simply, it is logical that this is the level of government that needs to be specifically separated and clearly said that it has the possibility to have a programme and energy efficiency plan. In doing so, I am not talking about the original jurisdiction, the trusted jurisdiction, which has not challenged as such a possibility and the Constitutional Court. It is logical, and since the amendments follow, then I will prove that the programme and energy efficiency plan and the rest of what we have proposed for the autonomous province is not at all different, so it is not clear here what the problem is, is the problem just to avoid the maximum possible mention of the autonomous province, that this is the only way to avoid it, not the fundamental difference. Our attitudes don't really differ. We want the same to be effective. We believe that you can never achieve such efficiency from one center. You can hardly look at my household better than me from the point of view of energy efficiency. All interested in this serious responsible business should join activities and forces and insist on increasing energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13392	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13393	So 160 municipalities in Serbia will be energy bonds. You said yourself now that you said Vojvodina wasn't an energy bonder. No, but that's why all municipalities are energy bonds, and that's why, among other things, there's that "local self-government". Besides them, bonds are also companies, so now they're exactly what they are. Secondly, to avoid the name of the Vojvodina, believe me, I have no idea what you're talking about. So it wasn't the law's interest. The aim of the law, to repeat if you have not read in the explanation, is to raise energy efficiency in Serbia, which is five times worse than in EU countries. That's the basic goal, how it's going to be done with this concept that we're proposing. This concept implies that things have to be centralized. Far from what it means is that what you said we would be ineffective in the realisation of that law. Then we'll be if there's a million jurisdiction. There's no million jurisdiction. The trusted competence, to repeat, we did not consider this concept of realisation, or this concept of increasing energy efficiency, to be effective enough, to enable Serbia over the next ten years, because this is some period of energy efficiency, we increase our energy efficiency by 9 to 11%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13394	National MP Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Janko Veselinovic, they have submitted an amendment suggesting that the title and Article 10a be added after article 10. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13395	So, the municipalities of over 20,000 inhabitants, if I've noticed correctly, belong here to larger users. The autonomous province is bigger. It's listed. If we look at what is foreseen in the energy efficiency programme, which is proposed for others here, because, given the logic all the time, if the separate units of local self-government are given entrusted jobs, which makes sense that they've won. They've got siats of utility companies. I would like to remind you that the province is not just a bank building, that there are public enterprises and institutions, etc., and there are much greater obligations. She's no ordinary household. The exact same thing we suggested as the content of the energy efficiency programme is standing here as the rest, where the province should be understood as well. Therefore, by rejecting the amendments, in particular by calling all the time that this cannot be original, and by doing so no one has asked for original but trusted jurisdiction, I believe that this is not right, and I still don't think that an autonomous province can be treated as others, in terms of rank, since other economic operators are households, buildings, etc. I don't think that's the way to treat a level of government in one bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13396	National MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13397	Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how persistent the proposings of these amendments are, and this is all about the AP Vojvodina. We could've taken it to the county. After local self-government, we could have given jurisdiction, transferred jurisdiction to the districts, that would be more practical than the province of Vojvodina. So, we know some of the responsibilities that were transferred a few years ago, that the Constitutional Court challenged it and now they're looking again for some jurisdiction, and all that's been given to you, to tell you gentlemen from the province have ruined, so that nothing happened, except that they've ruined those powers, when it comes to money and other objectives of that jurisdiction. I don't know how much it's not clear to the promoters, I don't even know what the proposings are, since there's a faction in that party, so I don't know who it represents, which is exactly why, for what reasons, they can't transfer jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina. They can only be given something to do, which may also be entrusted to the AP Vojvodina, but why, when it was passed on to the municipalities. Please, I don't know, we want to make this transfer of jurisdiction to the state of Vojvodina. It's all going to that end. So, the constitution says that jurisdiction cannot be transferred, the one in charge is the Republic of Serbia. I don't know where you're going to fight, and these are all members of 5, 6, 10, 15, 17, only the province of Vojvodina. You don't have the right to do that, not morally, not constitutionally, but you can only speak for the people to deceive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13398	Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13399	The problem with the reasons of the Government and the Committee is that there are competences of the AP and there is a Law on the transfer of designated competences. With this bill, you are practically exempting the AP from trusting energy efficiency, and you will only create yourself a problem. I love people when they have a firm attitude, but that attitude is devastating to them, when it's not based on facts. I don't like people having attitudes that are bad for them, because when they're bad for them, they're bad for everyone else. So by insisting on not trusting in the affairs of the energy efficiency of the AP, you're making a problem, because it has competences for which it needs to be entrusted. When we say the Constitution can, or the law will under the Constitution give some jobs, only to local self-government. It's called a trusted jurisdiction, to apologize, to give jobs. We suggest that you use the resources that are in your hand and trust jurisdiction, trust the jobs, those who are willing to do these jobs. Nothing less and nothing more. It would be a comical example if I asked Minister Mihajlovic to say - jurisdiction, regardless of whether it is a building or whatever, where jurisdiction is unsullied by the decisions of the Constitutional Court and then ask you to tell me that, by whose programme for which the original AP remains, how will the energy efficiency programme be implemented? So, you're going to have to be imaginative, so let's say -- now we're going to see if we're going to trust the local self-government, where the building is, or we're going to call the government of Vojvodina, and then we're going to negotiate with them how to be energy efficiency. And We say unto you, Let them do it. When Novi Sad does it, the AP can do it. There's nothing there but emotion and not imaginary fear. Whenever a trusted jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is mentioned, there is no political gambling. There's a rational one. I said in the discussion in principle, let's be rational if we talk about rational use of energy. It's not about anyone's defeat, nor whose victory, it's not about the constitutional original powers of the Vojvodina. It's a deal, a dialogue, and there are no defeated and defeated, there's a common success for all of us. If you can implement a program of efficient energy use efficiently and rationally, it is paradoxically that we want to radically change the sector where energy is produced, transmitted and distributed. We're not going to make that little effort, just to ask ourselves, so what about the powers that the AP has in terms of efficient energy use? It's the same thing to do. Why make it up, how do we implement it based on a centralised plan, no one's against it. Just, if you're already writing "others," and you're already writing "local self-government," trust me, and let the AP do those jobs, because they have something to do and they can work with, and they're going to do business with the AP Vojvodina sector and the government of Vojvodina anyway. It is only that your choice will not be based on the law, but will depend on whether and how the ministries of the Republic of Serbia and the sectors and the secretariats of the government of Vojvodina are agreeing or not. Why should we leave it to people here or there? Just a law record, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13400	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13401	Firstly, I am not referring to relations between trust and original competences, but above all to what is called the profession in the field of energy, energy policy implementation and strategy. You're absolutely right about one thing, that we want to radically change how energy policy is implemented and what the energy development strategy will look like, because everything that happened in the previous years shows us that the results are not good. In previous years he was not in power of the SNS, but rather DS with its coalition partners. Energy results aren't good, and we want to change things radically. In addition, I don't want to ask why this law hasn't been passed before. That's what we talked about when we talked about the law in general. The law had to be passed several years ago in 2008. Here, it's 2013. And now we're going to bring it. Now we are discussing some things that are not at all the story of expertise, or how to increase energy efficiency. If there are different concepts in this Serbia that this law will best be implemented, it is, believe me, only in Serbia. To remind you again, in every other country, the concept of increasing energy efficiency is at the level of the state itself. So, it's not in any way divided in this way as you now suggest, about putting in the AP Vojvodina. Believe me, I don't have any problem with that story. For the second time in your statements, you talk about emotions, fear, etc. They taught me that when someone keeps talking about it, then he himself may have this problem with emotions and fear. The only thing I've seen as a minister of energy is how to be more efficient and not spend 15 years trying to implement certain plans and energy efficiency programmes, because Serbia can't wait, because we're really throwing energy today. As far as I'm concerned, I'm really not going to explain this anymore. We tried to explain. You were also told on the board what it means. If you still think so, it's entirely your right. I deeply believe that the energy efficiency in Serbia will be increased and this is the main thing that we as a state had to do, which is to pass a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13402	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13403	I just want to ask one question. If we were to transfer these responsibilities, which require an amendment, what are we going to do with those responsibilities, I now mention "Vojvodina Development Bank", the Capital Investment Fund in Vojvodina? They ruined the two institutions without talking about some other institutions. To trust you with many more things now, to transfer jurisdiction, to have problems with the AP Vojvodina again, when it comes to funding from the budget. Think about these things a little bit. Don't be so resilient that yours is right, and ours by the Constitution is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13404	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13405	The minister said she's not talking about trusted and original jurisdiction at all. Unfortunately, Madam Minister, that's all we're talking about. In your name, the government has sent us a notice that our amendment is unconstitutional. When I say ours, I say on behalf of my colleague Janko Veselinović and Theodore Vlahovic, who signed the amendment directly. That's all it's about. That's where the mistake was made. I wouldn't need to talk about emotions and ignorance that I don't have an amendment here that's unconstitutional, that's in procedure, that I don't have your explanation, that you're calling for a completely different thing. I can only talk about what's in front of me and what's on the agenda. The whole discussion of ours, or in general, is about this amendment that you have estimated that jurisdiction is genuine, and it is not. It's just not. That's what your associates do for you. Do you look at it just before it comes to the Assembly, it's really in your jurisdiction. Your Ministry told us that we're looking for original jurisdiction, which is incorrect. Your Ministry has informed us that the original jurisdiction has been lifted, which has nothing to do with this law. In addition, you say that we advocate the concept of shared energy efficiency. Don't have any doubt that this is an idea I'd advocate, that I would leave you all without any doubt that we want the concept of shared jurisdiction, but it's not. It's very simple to explain. I repeat, you've been talking to people who have been working for 10 years to connect regional efficiency and work in the energy sector with the results that you have the right to criticise, challenge, disdain, but also with the bill that was made in that same circle of people that you've brought us. You don't have to say -- we didn't have to do much, we just had to fix it a little bit, because there was a lot of debate about the fund. But that law, too, is the work of those people. Bad, good, we can talk about it as much as you want, political disqualifications, whenever you want, it's irrelevant. What matters is that you're trying to make this law a problem for yourself. It won't be as long as it used to be. Unfortunately, I have a foothold in what I'm saying. When we warned that the National Bank Act would create a problem for Serbia, we received a mockery, mockery, defamation and revilation, so we changed the law because the law created a problem for Serbia. When there were other rules that made the problem for Serbia, we warned – don't do it, because we will have a problem that we will have to solve together, so we have been ugly, disqualified, humiliated and silenced each time. Now we just repeat – you will create a problem for yourself in operational work with energy efficiency programs. You may not come to the Assembly to talk again about who you are giving and on what basis to do a job that is in a clear, undivided, unique, strategically defined concept of the Serbian state for energy efficiency for the next five years, 10, 20, I would also like to see by 2050. I have no doubt that's what you're talking to us about. You'll have to have a procedure with which on a daily basis you run a program when it comes to local self-government and when it comes to others. Everything that our proposal is, as much as anyone tries to demean us, arm us, or tells us that we don't know, that we don't understand, I love most when someone understands what I don't understand, we just tell you – think about it and just let it be done, because you're going to have to do it anyway so that a comprehensive energy efficiency programme can really work. You work and control, surveillance, everything. You'll have our support. A sublegal act that you need to do based on this, if it can't say it's an AP, what will it say? The laws we pass, and I told every minister who came to the first reporting, no matter how good and how thorough we all participated in reading these laws, are useless without sublegal acts. If you want to bring in sublaws based on which this will be applicable, you'll have to leave out that there is an AP. The sublegal act will not be subject to demagogy of original and transferable jurisdiction, and especially now it will not be possible, because your last address to us has begun with you not talking about trusted and original competences. If you don't speak, then make order at the ministry, so don't let your associates send us reports from your ministry, which has passed to the government, where it writes an exclusive explanation of the original and trusted powers. No one mentions the original jurisdiction. A shared concept of using efficient energy nobody mentions. The success of this law, we mention, is me in defense of the amendments that my colleagues have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13406	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as someone who lives in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, as someone who installed part of the programme in 1990 relating to the AT Vojvodina, while some who today favored it didn't even mention it. As someone who participated in the adoption of the Constitution, only as a voter who had not guessed and guessed that this constitution should read, as someone who did not participate in the Constitutional Court's election, or a member of the Constitutional Court who disputed the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, I have reported to the public simply that the citizens who are watching this transfer see that there are MPs from the territory of the AP Vojvodina who do not share an opinion and the position of a number of MPs who also live in the territory of Vojvodina, even some who are solidarity with them, for party reasons. I think that agricultural policy and energy policy should be united in the territory of the whole country, and I think it's a practice everywhere in Europe and it's not just a practice in our country. I did not choose the Constitutional Court and I did not have any effect on challenging some of the responsibilities of the Vojvodina that were original and transferred and which functioned during the rule of the former regime. As a man living in Vojvodina, I warn viewers that they should distinguish the rights of the Vojvodina and the citizens living in the territory of the Vojvodina and the rights of the Vojvodina government. What we stand for is rights. We who live in Vojvodina are for the rights of all people who live in Vojvodina, that all benefit from these transferable original powers, which have been transferred from the Republic to Vojvodina, and not only that those rights are exercised through the government of Vojvodina. What do I mean? In the campaign for the autonomy of the Vojvodina, we did not advocate the rights of the government of Vojvodina, but rather the rights of the entire Vojvodina, so that it should be shared. At this point, we have no use for anything, at least for us who are not politically alike, we have no use for any of the original jurisdiction. We simply replaced one centralization with another centralization. We have advocated that from central Belgrade we get the centralised of Novi Sad, so instead of the "Serbishum", we have the "Vojvodinasum" and there is no further. They no longer share competences with forest owners, the right to share more in proportion to their incomes. It's just, just what the Serbs used to do, now they're doing the Vojvodina. Also, we didn't advocate to win instead of the "Serbian" "Vojvod" and to keep all of this the same. So we did not advocate replacing one centralisation with one smaller centralisation, but we advocated that the rights, competencies and financial resources received by Vojvodina, get municipalities, get regions, that the centralisation be general, not only leading to Bojan Pajtic's chair and his associates. We did not advocate it, and those watching this transmission, they should know, that in fact it is about and that, in time, the government of one part of the parties that ruled in Belgrade and Novi Sad, the government was transferred from one part of the party to another part of the party, a kind of federal, confederal party, which made power in the past period, and now it seems in Vojvodina, and hence these misunderstandings and anxiety that is growing. It has also been transmitted to energy efficiency. I continue to argue that this kind of energy policy should be guided, as well as agriculture, comprehensively and for the whole country. I don't know, the Minister of Energy needs to explain whether the practice is somewhere in Europe that energy policy, i.e. energy efficiency policy, is run by regions, so that it explains to me about the security states, such as Germany and some others, which are in their composition and according to the arrangement of the federal state. I don't think it's a practice, and it's actually about someone who's lost power in Belgrade, in central, currently holding it in Novi Sad -- yes, I understand that kind of anxiety, but I don't understand this rapidly growing struggle for the rights of Vojvodina, since many of them in 1990 have almost completely denied that kind of autonomy that they're up for today, and I belong to that party that's still 20th of May 1990, the People's Peasants' Party put the autonomy of the Vojvodina economic type in the programme, and we don't give up on it today. We believe that autonomy is not what you transfer the powers of a government only to the province government and then what our people say – there is no further. This autonomy received by Vojvodina should be shared in proportion to all citizens, regardless of the political definitions of municipal leaderships that make up power in certain municipalities in Vojvodina, and not that we must be politically similar, in order to transfer the funds that the Republic of Croatia in the amount of 7% to the AP Vojvodina, that we must court the government of Vojvodina and that we must have the same political beliefs in order to achieve some rights. So, those rights received by the AP Vojvodina must be shared, rights, responsibilities and money, between, I even say, local communities, municipalities and the Government of the AP Vojvodina, and not only the individual benefits. For that I am that the benefits of these powers and of that money are all of them. The Duchess is even in a better position now. It still retains 7% of the rights from the republican budget. The Constitutional Court, whose composition was elected by the previous Assembly, certainly did not, by making a decision that some powers were unconstitutional, allowed the funds to remain the same and the collection of competences to be smaller. I believe that all these funds can be used for those powers that are not challenged, to achieve this in greater and more full terms and for the benefit of all citizens, regardless of their national, religious and political beliefs. I would like the Minister to tell me – where is there a country that has allocated its energy policy to run the regions? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13408	National MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic have tabled an amendment proposing that the title and Article 15a be added after article 15. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13409	In this article, we have just proposed that some powers be determined by the authorities of the AP. I would say that there can be nothing here contrary to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, because the law itself says the AP authorities are obliged to report to the ministry. So this is where it's proposed to run the database on their territory, which doesn't mean you don't run a database all over the territory. It's the same thing that can't be disputed, that it organises an exam for energy managers and energy advisers. It is not said here – a licence, but only – since the exams are carried out in this area under the AP Vojvodina and not only in this area. So, the miners, the geologists, and not to speak and the judicial exam, that I'm not saying that the matter was before the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court said it wasn't unconstitutional, so that's the judicial exam. A license is something that needs to be at the level of the Republic and it's unique. Otherwise, the programme remains and is not touched that the programme is brought by the minister or ministry. A unique programme, unique criteria and inspection supervision that we believe will be more effective if it is carried out at that level. Since I don't like to use the Rules of Procedure, to remind you, I apologize, Mr. President, but I am speaking to you immediately. So, I don't like to abuse the Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to use some time to ask you, and the future chairman -- not one moment during this debate, I'm using the right to defend the amendments I've submitted, I haven't come out of the agenda topic. Other MPs led the debate wider than they would in the principle of debate. Please, I didn't want to use the Rules of Procedure to say we were discussing the principle. I'm using Parliament time and I'm still asking you to talk about the amendments and not to let everything and everything be said about these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13410	You know, in this National Assembly, we always stick to the Rules of Procedure, but in some ways we allow MPs to show the width in a way that explains things. I have never, nor have I intended to deny any MP to any member of any parliamentary group the right to state in the manner in which he considers it important what is in the composition of the amendment. I think that's normal. You always have the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The assembly will declare in the voting day whether you were right or wrong. The National MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic together submitted the 17th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Teodora Vlahovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13411	In this amendment, it is only proposed that data from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in addition to being delivered to the ministry, be delivered to the competent authority of the AP for the simple reason that it is considered that when the AP Vojvodina has data, it can in a better sense use its capacities and in some way direct funds that are not disputed to have in this law in this area. If you do not know what your results are in one area and in one area, you are hardly able to channel the funds properly and direct them in which direction they are most necessary. We are aware that these data collected from the ministry has another role to play. We read the argument, not only the argument given now but also the public debate in 2011 and everything that was said about it in the public debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13412	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13413	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, our idea of submitting this amendment is that instead – the minister stands – the ministry is authorized to do the kind of work and actions that you have provided for this member, since it was intended to disburse the minister who is not professional for all the tasks that are placed in his jurisdiction, which are the preparation, analysis, determination of the composition of the commission and the rest, and that the special regulation of the ministry empowers the professional services that would assume this competence. What exactly is this about? And this is how professional services will prepare you for everything that stands, and our idea was that, in the framework of the ministry's regulations, whether the Chief or Secretary of State would only be appointed for the job that would be done in order to know that a professional person is specifically responsible. This was our intention to carry out a kind of professionalisation within the Ministry itself to place a State Secretary or Assistant who would be exclusively involved in this work at the head of the sector or in part of the responsibility of the job and would answer to you as Minister. What's the second topic for us is how will one Sartide be controlled by energy efficiency? Is this Sartid that announces the start of work gonna pay for electricity or not, since we know what amount of energy that Sartid uses, that half of Gerdapa only works for Sartid? How will electricity be paid and energy efficiency will be controlled and electricity paid in general by the biggest debtors in Serbia, and these are public enterprises, cities and municipalities? That's what a dilemma is for us. This is what our question is for you – can you at some point as a minister or as a government report on how many cities and municipalities in Serbia and public enterprises owe for electricity and gas? I think it would be very important to see it, to see if certain municipalities that apply to the most successful in Serbia were the biggest debtors. To see if these vast subsidies that they share are shared at the expense of all citizens who pay for what they do? Electricity and gas are paid by all citizens because the debts for electricity and gas are transferred to citizens by the government's debt to pay the debts of "Serbiagas" and Elektroprivreds. This means that all budget citizens are paying the debts made by individual municipalities or a particular public enterprise by making their own marketing. That's the information we'd like to get. I hope it is not a secret and that we as MPs can know how many municipalities and cities in Serbia and public enterprises owe for electricity and gas. This is something that will help us in all further discussions on energy. A new tax is being introduced for renewable energy, so-called renewable energy. Green electricity. It has nothing to do with the amendment, but I'm using group time to talk about what's going to happen since we're talking about energy efficiency. A new fee of 4.4 pairs per kilowatt of spent electricity for renewable energy is introduced. for the green electricity that every citizen will pay in his account. In addition to the already existing electricity tax of 31.5 dinars, the payment of a 120 dinar measuring spot is also introduced a new fee that will be between 25 or 30 dinars per average bill, depending on the average account in Serbia. We have 3.5 million households in Serbia and 3.5 million numbers. We come up with a serious amount on the annual level. Is that perhaps one of the stable sources for filling the budget fund provided for by this law? That's one question. Will these funds be available to the EPS and how it will be spent, since this is the story that we will subsidize privates that produce green energy? These are some topics for discussion and amendments in the context of the parliamentary group's time and we as MPs get some information that is essential to this law and energy efficiency and renewable energy sources that represent a connected continent when we talk about energy savings and a rational availability with resources that are scarce in Serbia. I want an answer if this is possible to prepare us for one of the next sessions or deliver information – how many cities, municipalities and public enterprises whose founders are cities and municipalities owe for electricity and gas? I don't think that information should be kept secret and that we should all get to know each other in order to know how the taxpayers' funds are spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13414	Minister Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13415	Of course, it's no problem for you to get such information, even though this isn't the subject of the amendment you've given. I'll go back to the amendment, and then we'll have that renewables and everything. I totally agree with you. Of course professional services within the ministry will do everything, but what was given to me as an explanation, even before I thought the ministry was standing, it's fine, the Law on State Administration, which was prescribed that the minister represent the ministry and therefore, instead of saying – the minister can't stand a word – the ministry. This is what professional services do and there is a special section within the ministry called the Energy Efficiency Administration. So that's why they're not accepted. With regard to the debts of local self-government and budget users at all, although it is not a parliamentary issue, the Energy Ministry will provide written information about it and you should know that. It's also about seeing these claims that have EPS and Srbigas. I think of both, and then we have to see why we have so many claims and what happened, because it's not just about budget users, local self-government and republican bodies, but it's also about enterprises in restructuring, it's about some other businesses, so today we have a situation where the EPS is looking for a billion euros from economy and households. It couldn't have been accumulated at once, it was happening in the previous period. Wasn't there good control? That's what we're going to see now that we're moving into what's called solving the demand issue. The second thing, about renewable sources and that tax you mentioned, is that there is a certain obligation. In fact, one of our priorities is to use renewable energy sources. Those involved in exploiting the potential of renewable energy sources are privileged producers of electricity and heat under the Energy Act, not just with us, but everywhere in the world. On this basis, they receive certain, privileged prices and the possibility of accessing the network over the next 12 years. The amount, according to regulations, is about 16 dinars for the average household. The average household is up to 400 kilowatts. Now if you think it fills this budget fund, no, it doesn't, absolutely. This amount of these so-called so-called. the fidine tariff goes directly to producers during a certain period of time. I must also tell you that the previous regulation on these preferential prices remains, unfortunately, Serbia would have to allocate a lot more money. When I say, unfortunately, on the one hand, we need to take advantage of the potential of renewable energy. It is absolutely not a dispute and we all agree, but, on the other hand, the state, or the end consumer, should endure this cost in a situation where we are economically in a serious problem. In that sense, we changed the regulation in January, we brought a new regulation where we had to cut certain fines of tariffs, because in order to balance our efforts by 2020 to withstand this pressure, which is called the exploitation of renewable energy sources, because, I say, it is a critical point, given that it has passed on naturally to the consumer, not to us, but to all. We can also send you information about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13416	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13417	It's not a replica. Based on the replica, I'm picking up. Simple, just one comment. In this way, again, the cost is imposed on citizens, which aside from the costs that the citizens have, I mentioned 31.5 dinars of fixed tax and fee for a measured place, a new imposition is introduced which is not large, but when viewed in relation to 3.5 million numbers, as many as there are, is large, because citizens are double paying for that electricity, green energy. First they pay it through kilowatt hours, which, of course, they pay like everyone else, plus they pay this special fee. So it is not disputed that the state needs to help renewable energy sources and that the state should try to make them as healthy as possible in order for health care in a healthier environment to live. It is disputed that end-users, citizens, are double paying that cost and that they are being spent on renewable energy sources. So that's what the dilemma is. I understand that EPS doesn't have money, that the state doesn't have money, but that doesn't mean that citizens have money. It is necessary to consider how to finance the costs of renewable energy sources, i.e. the production of electricity from renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13418	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13419	Just a little supplement. They don't pay citizens twice the 16 dinars I mentioned for the average household. It's the only thing citizens single out and it goes for renewable energy sources. On the other hand, you have that benefit that says that in the next two to three years or four, we're going to have a thousand new megawatts and it's right from a renewable energy source. The number of employees, competitiveness, etc., not to mention. It's not just the segment you're talking about. I agree, we're not so rich that we can finance so much, but this is the only way that is applicable in all countries. I'm telling you what we, as the new ministry, have done. Just because of the situation you're talking about, we've cut certain finer tariffs, but to some extent, to have some inflows, investments and investors. If we had completely abolished them or if we had completely reduced them, we would have had a problem. I guess you know, the fixed cost of investing in the use of renewable energy is very high compared to everything else. This is one way, the privileged price of electricity and heat, and the benefits that the state has from it, through energy efficiency, among other things, raising, if we have a cogeneration of renewable energy sources. The second benefit for raising energy security, everything produced by us, is much better than importing it. Of course, this third benefit is renewable energy sources and this ecological benefit, as I call it, environmental security.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13420	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojić Markovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13421	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 24 refers to the report on the energy review carried out. We have submitted an amendment to Article 24(2). As the previous amendment refers to the same thing. It makes much more sense for the ministry to be in charge of something than I am a minister. So you wrote in Section 2 -- the minister is closer to prescribing the content of the report on the energy audit, i.e. the energy audit. It's exactly the same thing as the last amendment. Among the many powers, I spoke more of these powers when we spoke in principle, because in many places you have a lot of things that the minister has to ask himself, and that is not fundamental to us in this law. For example, the report on the energy audit carried out, i.e. the energy audit. Just a little while, if we go back, the minister prescribes the appearance of the form, content, deadlines, delivery modes, the content of the report. I wonder what professional services will do in this ministry. Of course, we're all agreed that they'll deal here. It turns out that professional services will be engaged in the creation of energy policy or, God forbid, control over the implementation of this policy. In fact, somehow these laws we've passed, even on the Ministry Act, have led to absurdity. The minister represents the ministry, but it is truly absurd that any small matter, which has nothing to do with it, must be answered by the minister. The minister is obliged to create energy policy. My colleague, Dejan Michael, started a topic that we, when we wrote these amendments, discussed among ourselves. If the minister can't deal with these big policy-making things, then he's gonna waste a lot of time on small things, and he's not gonna be able to answer what his main job is. Let's just say, when we instructed you what you need to prescribe, it was a question, and what didn't prescribe a way to charge the EPS. We got the answer. He showed up very quickly in the media. You have prescribed a way, that is, to regulate the issue of citizens' debt. In principle, we talked about it and we came up with the same attitude that citizens are poor, but research says that those who are the poorest, they kind of have subsidies, they pay the most, even though they say that every sixth household didn't pay for electricity. This is where you get somewhere else when you cross that data that only those wealthiest citizens and those richest citizens don't pay for the electricity they spend and that the poor pay because they know that if they don't pay for two months they won't be able to reach a pace anymore. So we discussed how it was possible for public enterprises not to pay and no one to warn them or to cut off electricity. How is it possible that other economic operators owe the same way? How is it possible that municipalities owe so much that they are millions, and citizens do not have that privilege of debt in such a way and are not referred to as successful hosts, and for example, they do not pay for electricity on the other hand? I read one of your comments just about this and I see that you reacted exactly the same way, as when we talked about that way of paying off the EPS debt. Why would Serbian citizens be in a position if they all had to see if the EPS would survive, how would it survive, whether the Management Board met or not, if they paid their debts? So the state can only function if everyone does their part of the job and pays their debts. What about those who don't pay, with public enterprises, with enterprises that are in restructuring, what about other business entities, which is, in the end, with units of local self-government representing a small state and having to pay their debts. Part of the answer we got, but I'd like to get one comment on what you've been commenting on when it comes to local self-government, which absolutely don't meet their obligations, and at the same time, in some other way, they spend those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13422	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13423	This is what we tried to commit to EPS, of course the "Serbigas" to move into what's called a payment of claims. In the previous period, we wrote off interest rates and offered a reprogramme, a special contract. If not respected, municipalities or any other user will not have electricity or gas. So, this reprogramme isn't just about households, it's about legal persons, absolutely all of them are covered, and that means local self-government. I agree with you, the debts are huge. Not to go back to why there were so many debts and why there were selective exclusions, etc., for me it's almost now past. We now need to see what we're going to do with those billions the EPS is looking for. On one side he's turned around and he needs money, for instance, and he's looking for responsibilities, and there's claims on the other side. But it's not just a question of EPS, it's a simple question of our entire economy, and EPS and "Serbiagas" and heat and stock reserves, etc. Now we're going into this business that's called -- let's draw a line and sort these things out. That says one more thing that we're trying to do right now, which is to establish a final system and know that if you don't follow the rule of what's coming to you after that rule or criterion you didn't respect. That's what was missing in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13424	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13425	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Madam Minister, as well as the debate in the principle debate on the law has not been very fierce and there have been no excessive grudges, of course I am not surprised by the rejection of the amendments, it is in a good tradition of these seven months of the rule of law of the new government. This amendment does not change the essence of the law, nor does many previous amendments, but adds only one slightly different view of why in the 21st century energy efficiency management would be a purely engineering issue and why this job could not be done by someone with a good knowledge of the economy. Of course neither acceptance nor refusal of this amendment brings fundamental changes, but it extends a circle of people who could participate, of course, if they pass an energy manager exam and we can compare another engineer with an economist. If it's not just machine engineers or electric engineers, I don't see why it wouldn't be any other engineer or why it couldn't be an economic expert, because these aren't space ship management business, this is a continuation of the mestification of the profession that lasts 30 years in this country. It's not anything new and it's none of your inventions, it's the closure of a profession that shouldn't exist in the 21st century, it's not supposed to exist and we don't see why economists can't be good energy managers, because there are such practices in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13426	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Professor Dr Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13427	I just wanted to say this is all about taking exams. That's what I was talking about. So, the passing of exams from all areas that can be organised in the AP Vojvodina is allowed in a series of laws, and not once as a trusted job is it either brought down before the Constitutional Court or declared unconstitutional. So, what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said, it's unconstitutional, I think they ran into each other and almost didn't say that amendment to ours that we suggested for heating, to measuring the heat, and for that it was unconstitutional. That's how it went along, because we should probably be courting our own government here, regardless of what's in front of us. But I'm not going to elaborate it here anymore, because I've already elaborated on how pointless it is to make it impossible for more commissions and different places to pass the exam, and then we're going to come from so much efficiency to waiting a few years for us to have enough of those who passed the expert exam. And I don't agree that this can't just be because this requires a license. They're gonna need a license more and more. There's a lot of professions looking for a license. This is all possible in view of the professional and scientific capacity found in other environments. What I was going to say when I was talking about the discussion that went off topic, of course, Madam Minister, I didn't mean you. She's been with you for the most extraordinary benefit of the debate. What is very important to me today as a national MP and as a man of authority and with moral integrity, is that in today's debate we have reached practically one conclusion, that the amendments my colleague Janko Vesenović and I have submitted are not against the constitution, nor are they outside of the legal system. Practically, for energy efficiency, the ministry, i.e. the minister, decided or estimated that the area should be centralised. What I would now like to say to you from this parliamentary post, where we've been following all the ministries and all the laws, is that it's been a trend since this government came. Every new law is about to new centralization. I can understand, but you'll have to understand me, too, from the point of view of my position I can't accept. I know our amendments won't be accepted, but we simply feel the obligation to express our views and defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13428	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13429	The exam, yes, will be a central commission, but training will be entrusted to engineering chambers, colleges, institutes. That means that, say, the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad or any other one of them can be the ones who are going to be training. As far as the exam is concerned, he'll simply be slow in front of the Central Commission. I don't think that's the first time and it's not the only thing. If I'm well informed, it'll be a notary exam, I said – if I'm well informed, and maybe I'm not, judicial etc. But I'm telling you right now from the point of view of the whole concept of raising energy efficiency. In that sense, only laying is centralised, through that central commission, but training is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13430	Thank you. The word is Teodora Vlahovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13431	Since the judiciary and what's in the field of law is my matter, let me just say, yes, the notary is a centralised exam, and the judiciary is not. The national administration exams are also organised in the AP Vojvodina. Also, let me draw your attention that we are delaying and we have delayed the application of the Notary Law for two years, precisely because we do not have enough of those who passed the exam to get a critical mass to start applying. Some things that seem effective can still be done decentralisedly even more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13432	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13433	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I wish I could have come forward on this amendment on the board, but I'm not invited to this committee at all, I don't know how it happened. Since my argument is not clear, I don't see at all what reason only that element of the tariff system that can affect the reduction of energy consumption is defined. When I wrote these amendments, I filed six of them on this bill, I was really trying to consult the experts. These experts made some suggestions, and they mostly focused on what they were, let's say, suggestions from the profession. We from the Parliament club Together for Serbia will always consult professional people on a particular topic and thus make some suggestions. We talked about it in principle. So this is a unique opportunity for us to fix the system and introduce savings, but that means changing certain regulations, in addition to this regulation. I'd really like you to explain, given that I missed that board, which I'm saying I wasn't invited at all, to tell me why this amendment was rejected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13434	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13435	I'm sorry you're not invited to the board, but we need to see who's organizing the committees and who's supposed to call you. That's another thing now. But, as far as the tariff system is concerned, there are laws dealing with the determination of the tariff system. One is the Community Labour Act, and the other is the Energy Act. In this law on efficient use of energy, we have used and drawn only what we have to do with the rise in energy efficiency itself. For that reason, it cannot stand this formulation that you have proposed in the amendment. As far as the profession is concerned, I completely agree with you. I'm just about to, number one, see what it is that can best contribute to increasing energy efficiency and that all those involved, in that sense, contribute to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13436	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13437	As part of this amendment, I assume, you have stated in your mind that my proposal introduces a stricter principle than the one foreseen by the law, so I assume that we here from our parliamentary group are going ahead of time. Right? Or are we asking for more than we should, as foreseen by the law? By education, I'm a graduate lawyer, but I say again, these amendments were written by the profession. I guess there's a reasonable explanation why we've submitted such an amendment. The point is that the calculation is submitted on the basis of the methodologies adopted. Indeed, as I understand it, at the end of the argument, it says that the methodologies are not valid. I'm interested - why aren't they valid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13438	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13439	Just to clarify, if your amendment were to be accepted, it would be contrary to the legal frameworks of the Energy Agency. So, there will come a time when we'll agree to that. When they say they don't apply methodologies, they don't apply to everyone. So there are those who are free on the market, which are not subject to such a type of methodology. It's actually a complement to this argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13440	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Teodora Vlahović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović together submitted to the 51st Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13441	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we discussed this subject in principle. The main requirement in this amendment is that for heat that has technical conditions for this period of application of this law, i.e. more accurate consumption reading and cost measurement, be the next heating season, which is 2014-2015. In order to make it clear to the MPs and to those who are following this session, Col. Vlahovic and I asked that the application of the tariff system referred to in Article 47(1) of this Law, within a period which cannot be longer than six months, i.e. for all heat suppliers who, on the date of entry into force of this law, provided the possibility of measuring supplied heat energy, whether for individual users or for construction facilities as a whole, the minimum condition for applying this system is that the construction facility, as a whole, has an integrated measuring instrument for measuring heat energy. The application of the tariff system relating to Article 47(1) of this Act, within a period not exceeding 18 months from the date of entry into force of this Act and for all other users. So this amendment makes the difference between the heat supplier to those who already have conditions to measure and those who still need to create these conditions. In your explanation, let's say, as popularly as you say, you've replaced the thesis. You say – a deadline that cannot be longer than 18 months will allow for the application of the tariff system from the 2014-2015 heating season. That is true, but you do not make a commitment with this provision to these local self-governments, or heat suppliers. If you were to say that all those who have the ability to measure heat must do so from the next heating season, you would create an imperative obligation for them. Why would their measuring bodies, or calories, collect dust for the next 18 months? Why don't the citizens save some money? We know that their budget is getting weaker, we know that retail prices are 9.3% higher than when you came to power. We know that every dinar is very important. Why not let the citizens save? If they save 80 square feet of heat in an apartment, they'll be able to buy bread or milk, of course, when it's right. On the other hand, I don't see why you didn't come to meet this amendment. You could have asked the board to be an amendment to the board, so you wouldn't have accepted the DS amendment, since you're not doing so happily. I would not like to refer to everything that counterparts Komic and Vlahovic have said about the possibility of local self-government having more power in terms of energy efficiency, i.e. at least there with the facilities, whose owners, have the opportunity to influence this energy efficiency. But given the fact that this government, let me put it this way, has seized powers or devised the existence and local communities, I'm not surprised that this is also the case now with local self-government and autonomous province, so that's not news to me. I expected such an attitude, but I didn't expect you to declare an unconstitutional thing that was absolutely not unconstitutional, nor could you in this way, or committee, not you, set yourself up. At the end of this part, since last time we touched on the subject of the use of recycled waste perhaps for use for use as a source, as energy and the fact that it doesn't seem enough, we talked about everything that might be resolved in the next period, creating a budget fund for ecology. Since we have no one to report to about Serbia, my colleague Stefanovic last time reported dumps on Belgrade's route, Zrenjanin, I am now reporting to you because I have no one to do so on the Novi Sad road, Baka Palanka. There's no dump, there's all the way, that's all that's on the way to the dump. No one's been cleaning that route, otherwise it's an international road since you came to power. Once again, let me remind you that both in Novi Sad and Bačka Palanca is in the power of the SNS that you are in power at the state level and that nothing prevents you from doing so. You see who keeps roads there, or what's on the way, so please check it out, even though it's an ugly picture of people coming from the west, and they come to such a deserted territory as if there's no local or republican authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13442	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13443	As a secure citizen, I believe that you could immediately report it to the inspection authorities, and I am also telling you that the Ministry of Development and Energy, or energy development of the environment, has its own inspections. For example, there was an incident here in Belgrade tonight, i.e. at Groca, and there were inspections and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and that with emergency situations went to the scene, and it is indeed an impetuous event. As for the dumps you're talking about, I don't mind our ministry leaving, as well as the inspections of the New Sad or other authorities. Furthermore, I'm not going to talk about what it looked like while you were in power, because you're talking to us now, I thought your interest was also to do absolutely everything that we had to do to have higher economic growth, to have more new jobs, so that the state wouldn't be so socially threatened as it is, the moment we came to power as you say. But let's get back to the amendments, since you've been talking about everything else all along, you just haven't talked about your amendment, and at least you've talked about your amendment. So in seven municipalities, seven local self-governments in Serbia use consumer measurement. No one prevents those who get calories from 18 months ago, and as a state, we've decided to help local self-government to raise energy efficiency, we're going as a state to provide funding for calories, so those central calories in buildings. I have to say that's the state of our heat, if that's what you're dealing with, then you should know, I'd say in very bad equipment that's 30, 40 years old, not to mention financial indicators and so on. That's the consequence, I'd say, of a bad relationship between local self-government and heat, and you can see it now, and that's when you feel it. Because when it comes to doing something concrete in the heat of local self-government, they're not in the mood to do it, but when they have to name directors, because the heat is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, then it's no problem, then they do it within 24 hours. But when they have to deal with technical characteristics, by modernising heat, with heat having a mamut, with energy, to end up taking this measurement at the expense, which you and I both agree is great, believe me, they're not really in the mood. It's a serious problem when we talk about relations in local self-government. So when you say that local self-government needs to be given greater authority and energy efficiency, I would like the time to come when people who run local self-government and all other enterprises within local self-government will be aware enough that unless they are seriously and professionally determined to do harm to their local self-government, and thus are not major political leaders in local self-government. For that reason, I'm not for that, so that's the only reason they have full authority. Obviously, they must have one strict and constant control. So we've got 58 power plants, seven doing it, we've got announcements that three, four heats are also going to be measured at cost. We believe it's an optimal time until they can do it anyway in 2015. We didn't want to, so this law is simply a uniform in that part, the same provisions for everything, so we didn't want to share it, and that's the only reason. Believe me, no heat that has the ability to use measurement at this time will keep calories on the side, because it's in everyone's interest to have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13444	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13445	Now I'm really going to talk all the way to the amendment. So, I am in favour of local self-governments and local energy distributors having greater powers, but in this case, I have advocated greater obligations and I asked you to give them the obligation that those who have calories measure heat energy from the next heating season. The new now has calories in all substations, it has conditions to measure heat, I speak because I'm from Novi Sad, and I don't know what it's like with other cities, but I know there are other cities that have conditions to start measuring heat. Why wouldn't they introduce an obligation to measure heat from the next heating season? I'm not sure that you're right when you say that he'll measure if they have calories, because they're already several years old and there's always some reasons, yes and when we're in power, and they haven't decided to measure heat consumption. They won't do it for sure, even if I believe so, in the next period, no matter what they have built-in calories. Right away, let's understand, not calories on all the warm bodies, it's only in one part of the town of Novi Sad, Petrovaradin and several buildings in which it's experimentally embedded from the German government's donation, but they have the opportunity to measure heat energy at the building level. I'm asking for such facilities and such cities, which is why you haven't imposed any obligations on them, I'm not asking for any additional powers. Those local self-governments have powers or do not have, there is no autonomous province, but why don't you make a commitment for them to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13446	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13447	Dear Minister, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, LDP said in the debate earlier that it absolutely understands the need for the adoption of energy efficiency laws, especially as it is one of the conditions, the need to bring our regulations into line with EU rules. We absolutely understand the ministry here and we can freely say that one huge number of solutions proposed in this bill absolutely support. What we are insisting as LDP and we have already talked about is how this law is implemented. The bill provides for the ministry to bring about 29 sublegal acts, if I'm right, for the next 18 months, on the one hand. On the other hand, we see in this article the 51st bill that we have some obligation to deliver heat suppliers, a member of the 50th obligation to deliver electricity, that what is precisely required to be charged by citizens. We are now experiencing a fundamental problem, and that is how European laws are being implemented with us. Are we as a society, or are we as a state ready to enforce those laws that we bring here? I absolutely support the amendment of our DS colleagues to cut these deadlines. Why? Because it is the only way to seriousise our state administration on the one hand, and on the other hand that citizens benefit from those laws that we call European laws. We, Madam Minister, have asked you simple questions in the principle debate, which are linked, among other things, to this law, which concerns, for example, the implementation of the law on public enterprises. It is precisely prescribed by the Law on Public Enterprises that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation within two months, which expired on 27 February, to bring the founding act of the state so-called state. public enterprises, when I say state enterprises, I mean companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, with the Law on Public Enterprises. Since you represent, among other things, the Government, I ask you a simple question – for which public enterprises has the Serbian Government agreed on a founding act? Why am I asking this question? So that we can make a parallel between what we adopted three or four months ago, with what we need to adopt now and about the deadlines that are scheduled, among other things, by this law and the ability of the ministries and the government to respect those deadlines. For which public enterprises, whose founder of the state, did the government agree with the founding act? On the other hand, what we also have a little misunderstanding, and I think it's important that we get an answer, is what were the motives of your ministry, and of course that's where I think of the government, to introduce a budget fund? If by six, seven months ago we've abolished the Environmental Protection Fund, they're also budgetaryly similar? I'm afraid we don't get into a situation where in five, six, seven months or so, I don't know when we're going to re-negotiate this fund with those arguments that you and Minister Dinkic had here when you abolished the Environment Fund. Also, when we talk about this amendment, it's extremely important, and you've already answered that question in some ways, that we know the ability of a heat supplier to implement the provisions of this law in a consistent manner. What are those local public enterprises going to do that have huge net losses? Is there a strategy to reduce these losses? These losses are extremely high compared to this European average and worst, on average, to countries in the region. I heard one piece of information two, three days ago, that only losses in the electrical system from invalid numbers and other ones amount to about 20m euros on an annual basis. If that information is correct, it's a huge number, and I think maybe we should get to the realisation of this 50th law as soon as possible, in order to try and replace those losses in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13448	Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13449	Again, questions that have nothing to do with the amendment. I would ask you not to speak on the phone, since I listened very carefully and you asked me direct questions. I really want to answer those questions for you. Right? I even wrote down everything you asked me. You've also asked me the same question twice. No need, I understand, I write fast. A few things. I'll even answer this thing that has absolutely nothing to do with the amendment. Regarding public enterprises, therefore, when the law was passed, then, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance last week, the sublegal act, on which we are now harmonising, therefore, public undertakings are ordered to comply with their rules with the law and I think that if not tomorrow, then next week, public companies' supervisory committees will be proposed to the government, as it is in accordance with the new Law on Public Enterprises. That's what I look forward to, because these supervisory boards will certainly have to have much more experienced and much more professional people in their composition than we have today with, above all, boards of directors in public enterprises. When you asked me how the laws were implemented in Serbia and what was happening in the previous period, it was a small question for those who previously led this country. I agree with you that very often deadlines are broken, and that is why this law on rational and efficient use of energy provides for a budget fund, and I will explain to you the difference compared to the previous one, and are given certain deadlines related to both public-communal enterprises and to all others who have a certain obligation to coordinate their work, just as an opportunity and as a capacity to actually implement this law, because I have repeatedly repeated that what we have is one, and that we lack sublegal acts in many laws is not good, because then this law cannot be implemented in practice. It's of interest to us that the sooner we start with what's called an increase in energy efficiency in one system way, the right way. Regarding the budget fund you mentioned, I'm sorry, I think it was you when we discussed this law, but I explained it clearly. The budget fund for energy efficiency provided for by this draft law is in fact an account for the budget fund. He doesn't have his own board of directors, he doesn't have a director, he doesn't have regulations, and he's going to charge from the budget, the possibility of a loan that I agree isn't the happiest solution and any donations. I'm not running away from having to form a budget fund to protect the environment. Also, to further inform you, and nothing to do with the amendment, that we are preparing amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, Amendments and Supplements of the Nature Protection Act, and these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, I am very much in favour of the existence of a environmental fund. I think I've answered everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13450	Thank you. Kenan Hajdarevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13451	Thank you, Madam Minister. You know what, we're asking you these questions again, because we didn't get the answers when we asked the question in the principle debate. We asked similar questions and Minister Dinkic here when he was here and we didn't get the answers back here to those questions. Why did the Serbian government not agree to the act on the establishment of public enterprises with the Law on Public Enterprises until February 27th? It's March 13th. If the Serbian Government does not respect the laws adopted by this National Assembly, how can you expect or demand that anyone comply with the provisions of this bill? You may not be responsible for implementing the entire Law on Public Enterprises, but since you represent the Government of Serbia, and you boasted that the Serbian government is unique, thinks and thinks alike, talks, then we expect simple answers. Why didn't you do it by February 27th? What higher power has prevented you from doing this? You know what, you can't change, you can't appoint new boards without agreeing to those acts? Did you agree for the EPS, "Serbigas", "The Railways", "The Resavia"? If not, why, what is this reason, which the ministry did not do and delivered to the Serbian government and that is a simple question? We do not repeat these questions because you may not have heard the rest, but because we do not receive concrete answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13452	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13453	I think you've always got an answer from me and last time in a principle debate and now, so when you say I don't give an answer, you're wrong. I repeat, last week, the finance ministry gave a sublegal act adopted by the government. Afterwards, a letter was sent to all public undertakings on the responsibilities of each resolution which was obliged to comply with its documents. Of course we won't appoint a supervisory board before they agree, bring the documents in line, and that's understood. I was just trying to say how much I look forward to forming new supervisory committees, because those people who are members and chairmans of the supervisory board will, in my opinion, represent far more professional and experienced, not all of them are bad, but more skilled and experienced people who will also have great responsibilities and obligations when they commit to this supervisory board. So it's going very quickly and I don't see you so worried, and yet I ask you, is there anything else about the amendment, and what you want to ask me, because today they're on the agenda of the amendment. I answer to everything, and to the EPS, to "Serbiagas," but you can't tell me I'm not answering. That may not be answered by someone else, but I answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13454	Kenan Hajdarevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13455	Madam Minister, we are here, however, parliamentary democracy and ministers should answer the question of MPs, not vice versa, and ask questions from MPs. This is not the main board of the Serbian Progressive Party. You know what, you're right, you're giving us answers but sometimes you give us answers to questions that we don't ask. I will ask you another question – according to the Public Business Act, all the beneficiaries of the budget either as subsidies, loans or otherwise are obliged to do a programme of spending these subsidies, so to call them, budget funds with a rationalisation plan in the next period. What is the public enterprise, which is in the jurisdiction of your ministry, which is used in a direct or indirect manner by budget funds, has done so?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13456	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13457	So, I don't know what you have so many problems, what do you have to mention about the main board of the Serbian Progressive Party? Yeah, you're on it and you're talking. So, I don't know what kind of parallel this is with this right now. Let me remind you, I have read all of your parliamentary regulations, or parliament of Serbia. There's a nice day where MPs are asked questions. Am I right? So there's a day when MPs are asked questions. However, as you do, I believe that anyone who is here as a representative of the government, if he knows the answers, should answer any questions you ask. When you ask me about subsidies, there is only one company within the portfolio, therefore, the Ministry of Energy, development and protection of the environment, which is used by subsidies. Do you know what kind of company that is? That's Resavica, that's right. The Resavica has done absolutely all the plans and reports. I don't mind delivering it to you, if that's what you're interested in, as I'm going to deliver here and the claims of Serbia's Elektroprivreda for the electricity delivered. So, you're looking -- you're going to get everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13458	Thank you. We're closing the line since we're away from the subject. We are continuing the debate on the amendment. He's got a word... (Kenan Hajdarevic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can, but when it's your turn. The word is Nebojsa Zelenovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13459	Thank you. As far as we're concerned, we'd really like to go back on the subject, given that this amendment has been discussed for quite some time. Now let me say, this is a very important topic, especially this part where we see how things work in life, even though you've given some deadlines to when it's due to go on this new system to work. I have the impression that at this point in Serbia, not all of them are doing the same. I can tell you that we have installed systems in Capco, we have divisors in buildings, and that's 25% savings in the first year. So, I don't see why in Novi Sad you can choose when and I think that's why we support this amendment by colleague Janko Veseinovic, because he is quite correct. So we're looking faster and that's actually what we're up for, and together for Serbia. We advocate that this one, ultimately, I can say, the local theme is to us. Give us that thing so we can solve it, so you can see how the state can function much better. This is how we wait for someone from Belgrade to give us a signal that they can do something. Here, it can be in Šapco, I can believe in Kruševec, it can be in Nis. Now we have to wait for everyone to gather and start saving energy collectively. We've already started saving energy in Capco, and if we save in the first year, please listen to me. Thank you. So, are we going to get some benefits now if we've already managed to save for the past few years, since we've been using divisors, are we going to get some savings at the bar? I think it's this, but really, except that we're going to get in Capco and that the people of Zapca recognized politically as a good thing, so they gave us a 30-percent trust in Sapco, and I believe that this could be one extreme local thing for a middle level of government, where we're going to take care of our potentials and we're saving energy. So anyway, we're waiting for some things to come together and catch up, and then they start in Novi Sad to save, even though they already have the capacity for it. That's why I think this amendment is good for my colleague Janko Veselinovic. I don't think your argument is bad, but what we need is to start saving energy. I think that's what it takes to speed things up, to try to make us all more correct and efficient. That's what we at the Parliament Club stand for together for Serbia. We don't have much time, let's be more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13460	Thank you. The word has Kenan Hajdarevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13461	Mrs. Kovac, article 107. - dignity. The minister said she had examined all acts of functioning of the Serbian Parliament and said there are days when we can ask questions to the Serbian government. I'll remind you, Mrs. Kovac, that there has been no last Thursday of the month for two months, when we as MPs can ask questions to the government. I will also remind you and ask you to intervene with the Serbian government, in this case and with the minister, to get the answer I have asked about the functioning of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia 25 days ago, and it is 15 days. If we can't get an answer in writing, if I can't ask the question last Thursday of the month, then you really need to understand our MPs, too, to take advantage of the situation where you're here to ask one of the questions. If I recall, when I asked in the EPS that even you were present here as a minister, but if it isn't, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13462	Thank you. I don't think it's an injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure, and I'll certainly do that so we can intervene with the government to provide answers to the questions you've asked here in time. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13463	Just for the answer. Believe me, we answer absolutely all the questions of the MPs. I apologize if you did, but we just didn't get it, I'm obliged to look again, and if we didn't get it, we'll ask you to deliver what you sent. Sometimes it happens to go to the Ministry of Mining, maybe that's the reason. Just say it again if it's not a problem and let's see when you sent it, because we didn't get it and answer it much 15 days ago, it's just my practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13464	Thank you. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13465	Just for a little while, Mrs. Kovac, for the sake of the public and for the minister to answer. I asked a question for this speaker. We also, by our acts, as you say, have the right to ask the government on Tuesdays and Thursdays. That's exactly how I did it 20-25 days ago. If you have not received, it is not really our responsibility as ambassadors, but the responsibility of those who are handling this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13466	Thank you. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinovic on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13467	Once again, I will ask the Minister, for what reason does she not accept the amendment and the binding heat, or local self-government, where there is the possibility of reading the heat consumption of the next heating season, as it stands in our amendment? Why isn't that an imperial provision? Finally, Madam Minister, you should be imputed to what Mr Hajdarevic and all the other MPs are asking you some questions that may be a little bit wider than this topic, since you will, in all likelihood, be the constant of this government, given that your only name is not mentioned as the name that will be the subject of the reconstruction talks, that you will continue to be a minister, so that you will have one continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13468	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 52 by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the corrections. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with corrections is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13469	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would really like you to understand that I have been working together for Serbia to be constructive, because we see this law as very important and what we have put in place. I didn't answer the last amendment because I got a reasonable explanation and everything's fine. So I don't have any grudges, since we've applied here to increase this number of 20 kilowatts to 50. The reason is extremely practical. So I have the impression that this is going to be very difficult to apply in practice and that what's in the law is fine. I also agree with EU directives. I'm just interested in how this control is going to take place? So how is this going to live in real life? I think it's very good on that side why we should adopt laws that we can't apply in real life in a long time. It's actually the only grudge. I really stand for it and I think it would be great if all of us in Serbia could meet this condition, but the fact is that, and we have to be aware, we are not still living in these conditions. I think it'll be a long time before we meet this legal requirement. Please explain this to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13470	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13471	I agree with you that it will be difficult. That's exactly why we consulted the European Integration Office. So we have to respect the directive and it certainly stands, because we agreed with the Office to move one piece to one time until we can build capacity and really fully implement it. I totally agree with you, but we can't get it out of the law. There's about 300,000 boilers. This should be prepared in order to fully implement it through the directive. That's an explanation. So we consulted the European Integration Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13472	Thank you. The word has a National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13473	Thank you for your response. Well, then I can say that this amendment makes sense, but I don't see any deadline? I didn't see the delay date.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13474	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13475	This amendment, which I have not submitted, is in some way similar to the amendment tabled by my colleague Zelenovic, is, above all, related to the following issue. In fact, the Energy Act and the Energy Efficiency Act are not enough, I think it creates a possibility for more competition for suppliers of various forms of energy, specifically for heating apartments. So, nowhere have I seen the obligation of local self-government to create the possibility that in one urban continent, here, to take an example of Novi Sad or Belgrade, we have equal to two suppliers of heat and gas as energy. You know that in the west, users can choose whether to use in their home or apartment gas or use heat. By all calculations, gas is the cheapest heating energy in most countries, except where due to some other conditions this system is comfortable, central heating, which has a central cooling system somewhere along with central heating. I don't think that's enough to cover any of these two laws. On the other hand, here, the mentioned topic of central cooling, it is very compatible with the central heating system, using the same system to the substation, so I'm interested in whether in this sense you have any intention of encouraging local operators, or local self-government to do something on this plan, given the increase in average summer temperatures, given the increasing consumption of electricity for cooling devices, which practically now every apartment builds, instead of having central cooling, especially for buildings that are just being built, and you created their obligation to have calories and I don't know what? It may have been necessary to create the obligation to install a central cooling system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13476	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13477	We tried this law to make a circle. We control the system, we control the system, we have a budget background from which we will try to finance some things. On the other hand, you're in some part right. Therefore, there is a possibility that suppliers may appear, etc. We don't prevent it, the law didn't set it exactly, but, you know, let's say, what kind of situation is right in bigger cities – where you have a heat pipeline, you don't go to the pipeline, and where the pipeline goes, you don't go. Of course, we have parts of big cities that don't have either. We also have that third problem in terms of energy balance, which is that people use electricity for heating, etc. I agree completely with the cooling. It's something to talk about, because it's a serious blow to the energy balance, and it's something that it's about, among other things. It's something we do. Maybe we'll be able to change the Energy Act and deal with those other things you mentioned. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13478	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13479	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since this is the time of my parliamentary group, this amendment has been in the series of those with the same change, that we have changed the word of the minister in the word ministry, and since the last Thursday of the month has not already come to this Assembly, and that you have not come to the board to submit a report, I will continue the story we started on the collection of snakes that were donated to the Ministry of Zagreb. When you and I talked, I didn't have all the information, and apparently you didn't have all the information, you told me that the reason it was so donated, so valuable and rare a collection, that it was donated because it was poisonous and that the antidote was very expensive, that it wasn't Belgrade Zoo and other zoos...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13480	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, it is my duty to inform you that you are back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13481	Let me just ask a question. At that moment, it was not said to be non-toxic snakes, and part of the package was also non-toxic snakes, which were not offered. Here, I won't use and abuse time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13482	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 95. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13483	I would just like to remind my fellow Members of Parliament, before I make a proposal adopted by the Committee to act on the basis of a decision they respect, adopted by the Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Members of Parliament, before I make a proposal adopted by the Committee to be adopted by the 95th Amendment. The decision exists and says no amendments are called for. Our secretary strictly respects this decision for the simple reason why this committee requires very many amendments, then requires a large number of proposings. So neither the board members nor the proposings in front of the ministry would have anywhere to sit. For this reason, we do not call on the promoters. Members of your parliamentary group, two members, Mr. Bosko Ristic and Mr. Petrovic are members of this committee and have been invited to all sessions neatly. Mr. Petrovic, which I am very sorry, I have repeatedly told him in personal contact that he has never been to the session of this committee, except for the constitutional one. Mr. Bosko Ristic was on the board twice. So I now invite you independently from the secretary, whenever you have an amendment, a proposal, you can come to the Committee's session. After all, you will be informed. Since you are unable now because you do not have your own rooms and the secretary has not been able to inform you personally, but all members of the Committee have been informed by written and oral means. To Article 95. The committee adopted the next amendment. Paragraph 2 is added: owners of tenants or users of boilers, i.e. locks of Article 54 of combustion in boilers, i.e. beds, thermal power greater than 20 kilowatts, shall be applied as from 1 January 2015. The amendment defines certain obligations for owners and tenants and this bill, which will ultimately be 12 months from the date of entry into force, is necessary to provide for the period of harmonisation that we discussed in Article 54. This attitude 2 should somehow help to realize attitude 54. It gives that explanation that the minister has tried to defend so far, which is why amendments to attitude 54 have not been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13484	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break for one hour. We'll continue our work at 3:25 p.m. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. We begin the search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SPECIFIC CONDITIONS FOR THE PUBLICATION OF THE RIGHT OF ACTIVITIES CONSTRUCTED WITHOUT A CURRENT LICENCE APPROVAL TO ARTICLE 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have also called for the meetings of the Minister of Construction and Urban Engineering, Milan Miljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism and Milija Djalović, Head of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, to attend the search in particulars of the 3rd item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Miodrag Nikolic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Vladimir Gordić, Nenad Konstantinović, Boris Rankovic, Aleksandar Senić, Jovana Joksimović, Ljuban Panić, Marijan Risticevic, Milisav Petrovic, Zoran Babić, Slobodan Velic, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milošević, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Teodora Vlahović, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Olgica Batić, Jovan Palalić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojrevic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radojko Obradović, Suzana Spasojevic, Dejan Rajčić, Aleksandar Antić, Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that the MPs Jovana Joksimovic and Ljuban Panic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together on 7 March 2013 at 10.30 pm to members 1, 2, 4, 9, 10 and 11 and the amendment to which Article 13a was added after Article 13, as well as that the MPs Nenad Constantinović, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together on 7 March 2013 at 10.30 pm to members 1, 2, 4, 7, 9 and 10, and the amendment to which Article 13a was added after Article 13. I also remind you that MP Milisav Petronijevic has written a letter to withdraw the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Susana Spasojevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13486	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the SPS Group participated in the principle debate on this bill, and we have submitted several amendments. I thank the government for accepting a number of our amendments, but using the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I would refer first and foremost to amendments that the government did not accept. The amendment to Article 1(1), which requested the extension of the time limit for the entry of ownership on buildings built and after 11 September 2009, was not accepted. The reasons we received why this amendment was not accepted is that the provisions of the law sanctioned the illegal construction as a criminal offence after 11 September, i.e. after the date of entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction. Because of the large number of citizens who have addressed us these days, precisely because they are interested in the fact that this deadline also applies to the facilities that were built after 11 September 2009, I will speak a little more about this amendment. The phenomenon of illegal construction was recorded in the 1960s mainly in major cities. Local and republican authorities at the time financed sociological research to see what was the problem with this phenomenon of illegal construction and to find the best solution to prevent the spread of illegal construction. The basic and key problems that this analysis has come up with for lawless construction are the unresolved housing issue of a large number of families in urban settlements, which could not get apartments for housing use from their working organisations, then, the absence of a housing market and a scarce supply of municipally equipped buildings. Authorities in their efforts to curb illegal construction have applied mostly restrictive measures of ban, threats to prison and fines or destruction. These measures could not produce results, since illegal housing was motivated by solving the existential problem of households that had no roof over their heads. The first attempt at a normative solution to the problem of informal construction was contained in the decision on the legalisation of illegally built buildings, carried out by the City of Belgrade in 1993. The law on special conditions for the issue of a building permit, i.e. the use of a permit, was the first regulation at national level in this area. Amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction of 2001 have created a new attempt to stop and sanction illegal construction by introducing criminal provisions, i.e. illegal construction has been incriminating as a criminal offence. The Law on Planning and Construction, which was adopted in 2003, also provides for a criminal offence under Article 149. Which means that under all previous decisions and laws, as well as the Law on Planning and Construction, which was made in September 2009, lawless construction has been incriminating as a criminal offence, but this remains a dead letter on paper, both due to the impeccableness of inspection services which rarely file charges against unwitting builders, and because of courts that apply or delay. From 11 September 2009 to the day, there are data that some 300,000 buildings have been built in Serbia. You, Mr. Minister, said in your opening statement that these facilities would not be destroyed. The amendment we submitted predicted that the deadline, i.e. the possibility for the entry of objects, would be extended to the buildings that were built after 2009. If we're not going to tear these objects down, we can't apply the law to these objects and the question is, what are we going to do with these objects? And you also said in your address that this is a law that basically represents a record of its own. How are we going to extend this record to 300,000 real-existence objects in Serbia? Mr. Minister, please take another look at the contents of my amendment. I am convinced that it will contribute to the quality of the law and prevent us from making another irregular position among citizens, i.e. among the owners of the buildings that built the buildings before and after 2009. As regards amendments to Article 9, we have requested that the 90-day deadline provided for by this law be increased to 180 days in which decisions on the registration of ownership rights are made with all possible observations. If we take into account that the competent services, which have received legalisation requirements under the earlier applicable regulations, have the obligation to provide to the local authorities the request and, if there is a obligation that all those who have not applied for legalisation submit the registration of ownership, while at the same time taking into account all the regular and daily obligations that the cadastre has, I believe that there will be a dampening of this service, which will certainly cause dissatisfaction among the citizens and among those citizens who submit applications for the registration of ownership, as well as among those citizens who regularly carry out some of their daily demands. In addition, catastres in Serbia are not technically or staffed to carry out registration procedures on an up-to-date basis and with a large number of cases. For these reasons, because we assume that these problems will arise, we asked that this 90-day deadline be extended to 180 days. On Article 13(2), we have tabled an amendment that should have solved the problem that will be encountered when the law begins to apply. By way of derogation from Article 10 of this Act, the owner of an unlawfully built facility may continue the legalisation process, i.e. the process of obtaining a building permit and the use of a permit, after the entry of ownership on the property in the real estate cataster. The question arises - how will the owner of an illegal object continue the legalisation process after the entry of the facility, on the basis of the application for registration under this law, since it does not have an orderly application for legalisation, and I believe that it is in the interest for all of us to have all entered objects legalized? For these reasons alone, we have submitted an amendment that the application for registration of property rights on objects may also be considered a request for legalisation, only to give owners of such facilities the opportunity to legalise their facilities, because the question is why they did not apply for legalisation. Perhaps for the same reasons that this law, which we will probably vote on in the voting day, will give them the opportunity to enter property. And there will be a problem that I've already talked about, and that's the problem of joining electrical and utility networks. I thank you once again for accepting the amendments to the SPS parliamentary groups, which influence the Institute of Property Law, primarily to the socially endangered layer of the population, which have built their facilities to solve housing problems, as well as amendments protecting the rights of third parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13487	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, in today's debate that will be in particular, we will try to make sure that practically some of the things we had in the debate and in principle and which were unclear in full detail. Of course, it was on the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications yesterday. I will take the opportunity as the committee's authorised rapporteur and authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group to inform both parliament and citizens of Serbia before we engage in each member in particular. The government adopted a total of 17 amendments to this legislative proposal since 97 submitted. However, the actual number of amendments that have actually been accepted is essentially far greater, given that the government has adopted amendments that are legally-technically the most precise and linguistically consistent with the terminology used in the draft law, with the aim of making the law clear, consistent and consistent in every sense. In short lines, I'm going to tell you what the biggest grudges were. The biggest objections to this law are, above all, due to the incorrect determination of the type and purpose of the objects to which they are applied, given that the purpose of this law is to register property rights in favour of the owner of illegally built buildings that have been built for their own purposes, or to buy immovable property. The identification of objects by type, purpose and surface, as well as the acceptance of the amendment in Article 1, removed the possibility of the subject matter of this law being built for the market, i.e. the objects which they have brought to their owners or will bring profits. The next major objection to the legislative proposal was to the automatic acquisition of property rights both on the property and on land on which the owner of the facility is otherwise not the owner, tenant or holder of the right to use. The amendment of intervention has delayed the acquisition of property rights on land until the final payment of the market price to the owner of the land, and no later than two years after the date of entry into force of this law, given that only property can be acquired on land under the property and land necessary for regular use, the minimum area for the urban zone in which the facility is built, land use, and which is determined through the construction of the parcel projects in accordance with the law and on the cost of the owner of the facility. The amendments were proposed by the amendment of the disputed member to a solution that is very similar to the Institute of Construction on Foreign Land, where there is also a obligation for landowners to sell land at the market price to the owner of the facility on which the facility was built, if it is established that the value of the facility is greater than the value of the land. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia estimated that the provision of the Law on Planning and Construction, which refers to the optionalness of obtaining the consent of co-owners, i.e. co-owners on the ground, if at the time of the construction of the facility, was not in agreement with the Constitution and other laws. In view of the legal fact of the decision of the Constitutional Court, i.e. the obligation of all state and other bodies to comply with all decisions, the Government has adopted an amendment which respects the legal understanding contained in the Constitutional Court's decision, so that the provisions of the Law on the founding of property-law relations and the Law on Transport of immovableity are not derivated. The next important improvement in the text of the bill is to respect the right of units of local self-government to regulate relations relating to the fixing of the land, but only when the owner of the property to which the property is entered, in accordance with this law, decides to alienate that immobility. The amendment establishing the obligation to deliver the confirmation of the unit of local self-government in the case of judicial clearance of the transport contract is a solution legally acceptable and known in the practice so far, and we believe that it will not cause any problems in application, and it is in line with the aim of the law to allow the socially endangered category to enter property rights without great cost on buildings that they have built for their own purposes. In the end, but not less significant, it is provided for the power to adopt a sublegal act which will precisely regulate the conduct of all the authorities in this procedure, as well as the content of individual documents supplied for benefit as evidence in the administrative procedure in question. These will ensure the uniform application of the law and level playing field in the work of all the bodies applying this law. In the debate that will be in particular today, we will try to point out once again precisely what has been changed when we go from members to members. Mr Minister, we really thank you for your understanding of the amendments that have been accepted, and we think that this law, as is expected, will improve legal security in our country and certainly be of great benefit to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13489	Radojko Obradović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13490	Article 27. Madam Chairman, we have received the government's opinion and in that view the government's nine amendments have been accepted by the government since 89 amendments. I very much appreciate Mr. Spasojevic as a colleague and an MP. He mentioned some 17 amendments that were adopted. Are there amendments that the government has adopted that are not given here? That would be important because of this debate that's just beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13491	I don't think I hurt Article 27. Mr. Spasojevic is a committee reporter and he knows very well. If he wants to answer, I'll give him my word. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13492	You could give us a break to get those 7 or 8 amendments that we haven't received, which are adopted because it's very important for the debate that is ahead of us, because if Mr. Board representative has information that I as the applicant of a large number of amendments don't have, please set a break to get to know and prepare for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13493	Minister Ilic will explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13494	Dear MPs, it is true that 16 amendments have been accepted, but 9 has been introduced by that regular number because they are identical, differing by a little thing, etc. Sixteen amendments have been accepted in total. They're completely identical. Various parliamentary groups have given them away. The committee was passed by by those we thought the text was most acceptable, otherwise it might be a small matter. Because of the score, some others have been accepted, and they're completely identical. You've all given amendments identical to some members and they've all been accepted in the same text, but it's been published nine officially, and 16 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13495	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13496	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, it is good that a good part of the amendment has been accepted since they certainly improve the bill we discussed in principle and we are already in the debate in particular, since we have begun to discuss Article 1. Since the rapporteur of the committee has just mentioned the Law on Property and Legal Relations, as well as the Law on Planning and Construction, I think that at least the committee responsible for this assembly should have taken into account that the Law on Planning and Construction does not contain absolutely any provisions on buildings such as weekend houses, holiday houses and facilities intended to carry out crafts work, so that it remains unclear anyway, despite the amendment adopted, to which the provisions of this bill apply and to which all objects are subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13497	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13498	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law and, above all, I am referring to the part of the amendment relating to objects that do not have the necessary permits. I think they are unnecessarily placed in the same context of buildings built without a building permit and those built with an appropriate building permit and do not have the necessary permits. Namely, the buildings that were built without a building permit, these are people who have not even paid compensation for the construction land, in many cases do not have settled property-legal relations. On the other hand, those citizens who have built with an orderly building permit and have these obligations settled and, in addition, according to the Law on State measure and catastro, those citizens who have built with an orderly building permit can enter property rights on their facilities under Article 97, where we have in Article 1, which is, for the owner of property rights on the site, one of the existing persons, point 1. – the builder has the right to property, i.e. builders who have the right of co-ownership or joint property on the plot, point 2 – the builder who has the other relevant and real right on the plot if a building permit has been issued for the facility or the facility was built at a time when the building permit was not a condition for construction. So these two categories are completely put into one context that is not the same, and I think this part of attitude 1 should be thrown out, as well as a full member of the 6th of this law relating to the same. The second thing I wanted to say about this Article 1 that I pointed out in my amendment is that I added the part that this law refers to objects that were deviated from the building permit and project at the time of construction. There I wanted to distinguish between buildings on one side that were built without a building permit and on the other side of buildings built with a building permit or where an upgrade of a piece outside the building permit was made. I wanted to point out the possibility that someone could get a building permit and then build a facility that doesn't fit at all what's in the building permit, that's completely out of the project and out of the building permit issue. The third thing I wanted to say was to define objects and their intentions and surfaces. This thing was partially corrected through the amendment of fellow Antića, but I think when you explained you said that socially endangered categories of the population should come to the registration of property rights. I don't think anyone who is socially endangered can have and build a house that has 200 square meters or buys an apartment that has 200 square meters, or a family building of 200 squares. I suggested that those surfaces be 100 meters square.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13499	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Jovana Joksimović and Ljuban Panic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Jovana Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13500	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment primarily wanted us to define objects that should be covered by this law, which would be facilities intended for family housing, weekend houses and auxiliary facilities. The amendment was submitted to clarify the proposal's intention, which told the public that this law was a law on quick and almost free legalisation with the argument that they wanted to solve the problems of those people who solved the housing issue by building illegal objects. In an explanation of the refusal of amendments, I saw the second objective of the law, which says that the law's objective is to enroll property rights as many objects that meet specific conditions as possible in accordance with the bill's proposal. By refusing this amendment, we see that the intention was quite different and that citizens are invited to enter property rights to pay the property tax tomorrow. Also, what I was talking about a few days ago in the discussion is that this bill is too corrupt and imprecise. We believe that it is necessary to border the squares, i.e. the weekend area of the house up to 100 squares, because for all objects that are larger than 300 squares, or 200 squares, construction and use permits should be obtained through the legalisation process. By adding item 3 which is that one owner can only enter one facility of an appropriate type with auxiliary facilities if they are located on the territory of the same unit of local self-government and such a registered facility cannot be alienated unless a construction and use permit in a regular procedure is previously obtained. What we wanted to make possible by adding this attitude 3 is that everyone who built it has a place to live, to be safe, to type in their objects and avoid any option of destruction. If they're going to get rich by alienating this facility, then they have to pay all the obligations that other citizens had to pay with permission. The amendment ensures that one owner can only enter the object of an appropriate type in this way, except for auxiliary facilities, thus preventing the possibility of law abuse, by e.g. An investor of a residential facility for the market, to avoid a regular legalisation process and gain illegal benefit, has written down, as his family residential facility or weekend facility, every single apartment in the building for the market, so the possibility of enrolling property is limited by the number of facilities on the territory of the unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13501	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13502	Ex-member or sympathiser, I'm not quite sure, Mr. Velimir Ilic's party, Bor, called – Corba, said at one of his concerts – no fraud, no lies, Corba plays live, no playbacks. Unfortunately, this law is a playback, it is a fraud. I also said that in principle, because there is no legalization, Minister, if the media did not quote incorrectly your allegations that this law is legalizing illegally built objects. With this amendment, which was submitted by counterpart Joksimovic and counterpart Panic, they tried to, in some way, expose your intention and prevent more damage than you are making with this law, or that it is reduced to measure, to refer to a particular circle of objects, not as broadly as you have given it in the law. However, since we are discussing a specific member, I am interested in answering a few questions. Why didn't you, when you were preparing a special law on enrolment of illegally built objects, also go on to change the Law on Legalisation, its addition, or the properness of new circumstances, thus ensuring the continuation of the legalisation process? I'm convinced, I think, that all the people who have read this law are convinced that the legalization process will be suspended after the adoption of this law that is so-called. Law on legalization. This law is not a law on legalisation, but a list of illegally built objects, which will create their owners an obligation to pay taxes. So, these people who took their mouths off, didn't go on vacation, etc., you now, instead of allowing them to legalize their facilities, that the city, the local self-government of these funds, build infrastructure, asphalt, bring water, sewerage, so that for the next 50 years they don't live without roads, asphalts, electricity, etc., you put them on the list of illegal objects, you make them an obligation to pay taxes, and you still say how you legalized their facility. No, for them you create constipation, and leave them as illegal and yet, from the point of view of the state, proclaim them as illegal builders. Please give me at least one answer. When will the legalization process continue, real legalization? What are you going to do with the existing Law on Legalisation, so that these two processes can go unequal and how can there be less damage? What's the cost of legalization going to be, according to you? Are you going to change something in relation to the existing Law on Legalization or are you going to leave, as has been the case so far in this Law on Legalisation? So how will you, when you vote tomorrow, allow this law to continue and that people really are the owners of objects that are legal and on which they can really mortgage, take credit, do traffic without having to indicate that they are illegal objects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13503	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13504	I must agree in one part with my colleague, Veselinovic, on the issues asked by Minister Ilic, and I have one question for the minister. It is – why does this law even bear the name it bears, so the Law on special conditions for enrolment of property rights on buildings built without a building permit? This name does not correspond to the essence at all, since the name of such a bill indicates that the law will prescribe specific conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, and the provisions of the draft law regulate specific conditions for the registration of property rights only on objects used, and then states what. How are the conditions for the entry of property rights on illegally built buildings prescribed by some other laws based on public, private documents, which are similar for the entry of property rights, both on land and in buildings, the law governing planning and construction, the Law on property legal relations and the state diameter and the catastro? This would at the same time mean that this draft law does not determine specific conditions for these objects, as is the wording of the text of the law itself. This form of title does not correspond to the content of those provisions that it foresees, while at the same time poses a risk of non-compliance with the provisions with the very name of the text of the law. I think the promoter should have it in mind to rephrase it, to bring it in line with the provisions of a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13505	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, National MP Donka Banovic submitted. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system? The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13506	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. This amendment applies to Article 1, but it consists of two parts. The first part of the amendment refers to paragraph 2 and the second part refers to paragraph 5. Otherwise, this attitude 2 is the attitude of which there have been many words, here I see today, and in the debate in principle. I have proposed an amendment to delete residential and business facilities, such as objects intended or covered by this law. There were a lot of words in the discussion in the principle of understanding if a family was forced or forced to resort to this kind of building of objects, therefore illegal, so that they had no money for all other taxes, which some other citizens had to settle, and that, let's say, we can understand that the objects that are for family housing, parts of these facilities, etc., but we do not understand that this law provides for the registration of the right of housing facilities. That's certainly not right. You explain to me why the amendment was rejected, otherwise, all the reasons, said that this amendment of mine was partly accepted because you accepted the amendment of colleagues of Antić and Dejan Rajcic. I don't agree with that either. There have already been words here, and their amendment is something that I disagree with, so I don't think it's covered by this, especially where this amendment is talking about, for example, that the cottage can have 200 square meters of useful land and be the subject of this law, or that the craftsmanship facility is 100 square meters, etc. So it wasn't even the intensity of this amendment, as far as that member is concerned. The second part of the amendment refers to the part where the body responsible for urban affairs, at the request of the Republic Geodesy Institute, is said to be required within 15 days of the date of delivery, to determine whether the application for registration of property rights applies to these facilities and, by written means, informs the applicant. I don't think this 15-day deadline is enough, and I've suggested that that deadline be increased to 30 days. It's also the opinion of people working in these bodies, in local self-government. In some smaller cities, they also agree and think that in 15 days it can be answered, but in some other cities, and they are in most, they say that 15 days is a very small deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13507	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of the People Dejan Rajcic and Aleksandar Antić submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13508	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, as we heard from a recent discussion by my colleague Banovic, there is again a dilemma about whether it is necessary to define the square of certain types of housing or other objects as I have suggested. I thank Mr. Minister for accepting the New Serbia amendment. We had a dilemma here whether it takes, say, a surface area for a craft space to be 100 squares. We believe that there may have been more, but we have been delayed and we have made a proposal to be 100 square meters, and in this way we have made it possible for businesses, entrepreneurs, who are engaged in some of their work and work, to organize their work in a legalized space. In this amendment to Article 1, we have tried to propose to the legislator, and thank you for being adopted, to define more precisely the areas and types of residential and business objects, which are subject to this law on special conditions for the registration of property rights, i.e., on which property rights can be entered, on such types of objects. For the sake of the public, I will say briefly that we have proposed that family housing be defined up to a square of up to 300 metres of net surface area. So, as we know, the largest number of objects in Serbia that are currently subject to this law on the registration of property rights on profits are family housing, which are built either in previous years or in previous decades, precisely with the purpose that the host who started to build it wanted to build it so that he could accommodate his family and his successors in the same family household. We think that this square is perfectly suited to our local conditions that exist in Serbia. In this way we also defined the area of apartments in residential or residential business buildings to be up to 200 square meters of net surface area, we suggested that the garages be 30 meters square and, as I said, facilities to perform craft work up to 100 square meters. I think that this is how the real essence of the bill promoter is affected, which wanted to solve as many problems as possible for decades in this society, and one moment to make a cut and start from tomorrow to an orderly solution in the field of construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13509	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13510	Thank you. My friend, I'm glad your amendment has been accepted. I assume you have special good relations with Minister Velimir Ilic. Unfortunately, I haven't, but I've explained, or I've talked about an explanation where I'm responsible for my amendment being partially accepted, and I don't think so. I have suggested that we delete this item at all, or that it cannot be entered on residential business facilities in this way. You think your amendment is good and I'm glad the minister accepted it for you, but I still can't agree with the argument that the family housing, which was built out of necessity, without permission, without paying off land, without paying off all other taxes, is a residential facility of up to 300 square meters. We may come from different parts of Serbia, but, of course, in my neighborhoods, who has a house of 300 square meters, he's a city tycoon. You may be from some other parts where that's not the case. That's one thing. Also, you're talking about craftsmanship. Right, I also don't know anyone who deals with some craftsmanship or hires one or two people, and that store has 100 square meters, usually it's from maybe ten to 30. Someone with such an object is involved in some productive activity. So it's not about the craft shop, it's about the production plants, and it seems to me that small factories, small and medium factories, are not the subject of the registration of property in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13511	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13512	We must be some extremely rich people when we are illegally building residential buildings of 300 square meters, and someone doesn't even have an apartment of 30 square meters, as counterpart Rajcic said, for which the facilities are listed, so, for example, the garage of 30 square meters, a weekend house of 200 square meters, facilities for performing craft work, I'll agree with my colleague, up to 100 square meters. Then we work perfectly, we're one ideal economic country, just to legalize all these illegal objects, and we're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13513	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13514	We have spoken in principle, we will speak today, and in Article 1 a total of two amendments have been accepted, but I fear that if we start bidding with squares and simplify the whole story in a way that is simplified by accepted amendments, then we will not talk about the essence of this law. Since I have an amendment to Article 1, I'm going to talk about it later, and now I'm going to talk about the way this amendment was proposed. First, it is proposed to enroll only some of the facilities, so these are living facilities that the colleagues were talking about, 300 square meters, etc. Nowhere is said – we know that there are a million and 300 objects that are not registered, which are without permission. If only these are entered and only the objects built by 11 September 2009, what happens to all those not registered and what happens to all the buildings that were built after 9/11? Obviously, we don't have the answer to that question until we've passed the right law. Another thing, one such amendment may solve a large number of problems, but it also opens up a much larger number of new problems. For example, the allowed entry of apartments in residential buildings is up to 200 square meters. So if there's a builder who built 100 apartments up to 200 square meters and sold those apartments, he's done his job, and the problem is solved by all those people who bought those buildings from him. The second thing, the law that the Constitutional Court annulled, i.e. members of the law from 185 to 200, defines obtaining a building permit for buildings built from public funds, i.e. the budget of the Republic, local self-government, public enterprises and others. These facilities are certainly not covered by this member of the law, as the state certainly built buildings and garages larger than 30 square meters, holiday houses and the rest. The state was building something else. Does that mean these objects won't be listed? So this term creates an illusion that something has been solved, and in fact it still leaves a vast empty space waiting for us to solve it when we adopt laws on planning and a comprehensive solution to the problem. Citing with squares and bidding with certain types of objects creates an illusion that the problem is being solved, and in fact it only delays the solution of the problem by several months to the new law. That's why this amendment absolutely doesn't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13515	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13516	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, of course, in Article 1 paragraph 3 I recognized that what you have proposed violates the Nature Protection Act and the Protection Regulation, which are documents signed and issued by the Government. On this basis, I have tabled an amendment, where I really want to tell you that the first-degree protection regime is completely prohibited from building objects, while in the second- and third-degree protection regime, construction is prohibited in relation to certain types of objects. In protected areas, I have to say, there's been a really huge expansion of the so-called. Wild construction, construction that can't be legalized because it violates these laws that I have stated. In national parks, let me just say how many buildings were built: on the Kopalnik 156, Fruška gora 91, Gerdap 77, Tara 174, Char Mountains 225. So, only in national parks, these five of our national parks, you have 654 objects that are registered. I have information for Tara National Park that there are many objects that are not registered and that are not in this issue. You remember, Mr. Minister, together we talked about when we spoke at the time of last government, which destroyed objects, actually wanted to tear down objects on Uvec, 150 objects, on the Zavojsko lake removed 250 objects. Simply, those objects that can't really be legalized because they don't meet these laws for nature protection, and they can't be legalized because they threaten biodiversity, geonasity, etc. I ask that, in this way I have proposed in my amendment, they be treated, i.e. to respect the Nature Protection Act of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 36/09 and the Protection Regulation, which is also an official document and which I think absolutely no one objects to respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13517	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13518	I am not one of those who will complain and say - adopt my amendment, so I will vote in favour of the bill. I don't mind that this amendment hasn't been adopted. However, I do not understand the reasons why this amendment is not accepted, since it is stated because Article 4 of the Law refers to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction relating to the legalisation of the facility, and consequently, the persons to whom this law applies should have the same scope of rights as those subject to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction relating to the legalisation of the objects. Be careful, in one sentence you mention three laws, two of which you have derogated from the bill. I don't understand anything here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13519	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13520	We talked on Friday, it seems to me, when we talked about the law in principle, today more of my colleagues talked, not only from my parliamentary group but also from the Assembly, about how serious the problem of illegal construction or construction without a building permit is. This is the sixth law in 15 years that's been passed to solve the problem. In addition to all the announcements, in addition to all the promises and all the simplified procedures, many ministers came to parliament with proposals to solve this problem, the result was that after each law, the number of unlicensed objects was only every time, year after year, growing and higher. The additional thing, then, a few days ago, I said that we discussed this law six months ago, maybe you'd have some ideas on how to solve the problem in a different way. But in the meantime, there was a constitutional court decision. The Constitutional Court has put out of force all provisions of the applicable Law on Planning and Construction, delayed the application of the law by six months, but in the Constitutional Court's decision it is absolutely unequivocally said that the rule of law must be respected, that equality of all citizens must be respected, and that no legal solution can introduce different procedures or different fees for citizens who participate in this adoption and obtaining authorisation procedure. It is a major challenge for the new law on planning and construction. What is quite clear to me, is that our first task is to prevent new buildings without a building permit, to pass good procedures by law new on planning and building or only on construction, which is my view that this law should be divided into several different laws, by the matter it processes, and only then solve the problem that has arisen for at least 50 years in Serbia. This law is not a law on legalization. This law with the amendments is doing exactly the things he shouldn't do. The process of obtaining a building permit is one unique process that involves ownership of the land, ownership of the building, building, or use of the permit. To separate this process into four different processes is certainly not a good thing and will certainly not solve the problem. It is only with these adopted amendments that it is absolutely unequivocally clear that you can be the owner of a building that does not have a building permit on other people's land, you can own a building on your land, you can own a building on your land with a building permit without using permission and any possible combinations of these cases. I don't think there's anything going on with these months or two until the new law on planning and construction is passed and that a much better solution was that we first passed that law, and then with the solutions from that law went into individual cases. Like this, objects will happen, they won't have a building permit. The Law itself on Planning and Construction in Article 195 unequivocally said that even when a permit is granted under this simple procedure, the Republic of Serbia does not guarantee the stability and security of the facilities. So what kind of building permit is that, and what kind of paper is that that doesn't really guarantee anything? We can't solve the problem partially. I think it was incomparably better that we were in the interests of the citizens, in the interest of foreign investors, in the interest of domestic investors, to bring a regulation that allows building permits to be obtained in a simple way, that construction engineers and notaries, who will all participate in this process, have far greater responsibility, far greater rights, but also responsibility for all those criminal provisions, as there are everywhere in the world, that this process is speeded up and that far greater responsibility of the state authorities appears. From 2003 to 2009, the Law on Planning and Construction prescribed several crimes. It was a crime to build an object without permission, it was a crime to invest in building an object without permission, it was a crime to design an object without permission, and it was also a criminal offence to connect the object to the infrastructure. Since 2009, the new law has no longer existed, but has therefore entered the Criminal Code. These are crimes under Articles 219a and 219b. But all these facilities built since 2003, and there are certainly hundreds of thousands, without any problems connected to the current, to the water, to the sewerage, had telephone connections. No one could've done it alone, it had to do an authorized face from Elektro-distribution, from Telekom, from the water lines and sewers. Until we solve this problem, we won't solve a problem or an object without permission. The law has a serious legal gap because it does not solve cases after 2009. So in these three and a half years, there's probably a large number of buildings that have been built, which also don't have a building permit. Will these objects be destroyed? The Constitutional Court in its decision unequivocally says, since there are a large number of objects, it is absolutely irrational for these objects to be torn down, so probably not, but these objects are not mentioned anywhere. If we're going to put in 100,000 objects or 200,000 objects with this law, we're still going to have a problem with 1,100,000 objects, with which we don't know what to do. We need to approach the problem completely in order to have a regulated situation in front of us, both urban and construction and whatever the hell you want. This law creates an illusion that the problem is solved, the problem remains. We'll have to wait for some new law to solve the problem. Then the big question is why waste the energy of you, first of all, ministers, who have a lot of work to do with building objects, ministries, the National Assembly, if the solution to the problem is actually waiting for a new time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13521	National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13522	These provisions of Article 1 and the amendments adopted, i.e. the amendments submitted by MPs Rajcic and Antić, are somewhat specific to which types of objects this law will apply. However, it was likely that the basic objectives of the law would be met that those citizens who built buildings without permission, and for the need of their apartment and for the security of the roof over their heads, would be above all treated by law. However, since the adopted amendments have left provisions that property rights will be entered on both basic buildings and on buildings built, such as weekend houses, holiday houses, and even in those protected belts, the story falls into the water again. The fact that objects of 300 square meters will be registered for housing, let's in some way be able to swallow and accept that someone has built for both their family and their successors, but that the law will also apply to objects, i.e. crafts up to 100 squares, are really so very problematic. I'm very interested in where there's a craft shop, for example, a shoe shop that has 100 squares, or a 200 squares weekend house. There's absolutely no reason to have a 200 square-square weekend house, it certainly wasn't built by the poor, in this way indirectly legalized. The other problem of this law is the registration of property rights, i.e. the legalization of objects for those who built on other people's land. The basic condition and integrity of property rights is thus questioned. So to build something with or without permission, the basic conditions are that you have something to build on, that is, to be yours. If you're working on someone else's, and the law here gives you the benefit of entering an object that isn't yours, it's really something that we find extremely problematic, and we think that these provisions can lead to even bigger problems instead of solving them. The aim of the law was to enable those who built their housing facilities, first of all, to have, to tell the deed or the paper that this object was theirs and that it was legal. But I'm afraid it's going to get into a much bigger problem by getting a country that's someone else's, based on the entry of objects, and this way the buildings that were built as weekend houses of business spaces and those buildings that were upgraded past building permits are going to be classified as property, which I think is directly contrary to the Law on Planning and Construction and Effort to introduce some order in construction. Some amendments have improved these provisions of the law, but I am afraid that the problems will remain and that through some new law on legalisation, we will have to think about how these things that will not be solved by this law will improve and resolve in the new law on legalisation, that is, planning and building.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13523	Thank you. Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13524	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think we should be making some EPP here right now and telling stories. I'd like someone to show you where it says the facility will sign up if it's on someone else's land. Where did you read that? I'd like to ask you not to drag us out of the kitchen of a bana story right now. I'm listening to people here discussing and talking about how something needs to be solved, and recently they've been Deputy Minister of the Forest. Why didn't you save people? Which now you're complaining to me that you couldn't solve, etc. I repeat, we're talking legalization. This isn't legalization, I repeat it for the hundredth time. The entry into the immovableity cadasar and all undisputed objects that have resolved the status of the property will be entered and will be valid. You can't legalize something that's been trying a lot of laws. These objects could never, most of them could never be legalized. Why couldn't I? Because with fictitious documentation no one can legalize objects. Who's the one who's going to legalize the facility and give an orderly permit, made in the blue area? Who's the one who's allowed to give permission for an object done on the rink? What do you think now is that we need the entire Vinca village to tear down 2,000 houses, the intended bridge and the highway. Do you know that the solution to the tunnel is to pass under the settlement, because no one in this country can tear down 2,000 houses? So these facilities can never get a building permit, because they're on the highway track. There's got to be some solution to it. They exist. We have to sign them or tear them down. I was talking about a unique satellite of Europe. We have to register all existing objects. I ask you nicely, why citizens should be exposed to the cost of several thousand euros to make documentation. It's funny to me now that some people who understand it well are saying that it's possible to do it, and you know how much it costs to question a 100-square family house, completely so you can give it a regular building permit? Costs, 20,000 euros requires the Institute to conduct a study of foundations, walls, ceilings, roof structures, etc. Who in Serbia can pay today? It's another story. There's an analysis here. Take the Bureau of Statistics, there's a lot of objects that are made with 200, 300 squares. The man built an object basically a hundred squares, collected materials, had two children, walled and floored, walled and roofed, and nothing was finished, but the ground floor where they live. So now what do we have to take down two floors and leave him on the ground floor? Such facilities are more than 30% in Serbia, and 10% of them are not in general or outsourced. You now if you don't include in this process he can't get a loan, he can never finish it, because there's no more money. Sometimes rivers and cities stood well. Take Smederevo, take Kragujevac, Kruševac, people have taken loans, started megalomanic facilities. They finished the bathroom, two rooms, and that's where they stopped. Now, what we need to do is tear down a part of their facility so that we can write them down. So please understand that we have a major problem in the country. That we can no longer function with a million and three hundred thousand unrecorded objects. Seven hundred thousand are indisputable, because the paperwork is in order, which has been submitted. But people don't have the money to end it. This is helping to do it. Please don't tell me this is a law that's going to tax objects tomorrow. That's not true. Objects are taxed by the previous government. In the previous government, a property tax law has been passed and taxes are paid. Anyone who doesn't pay goes into a court dispute and proves he doesn't have an object and doesn't have to pay, he didn't have to, but most citizens pay and it builds and works, etc. I ask you to add only one thing, that the amendment of Mr Nikolic has been accepted, because it was subsequently delivered with some amendment as completely identical as the amendment of Dejan Rajčić, Aleksandre Antić, Olgice Batić and Mrs Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Theodore Vlahovic, and that amendment is in Article 10(3) to be deleted. So he was accepted later, because he's exactly the same as these accepted amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13525	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13526	I just said two things are problematic. I understand that those family facilities that were built without permission and even from those three floors, 300 square meters, are to be entered and no one is to comment on us from the DSS, or from others as far as I understand MP groups. What's the big deal about this weekend's house? What are these facilities doing in protected areas? There's a lot of them. You know what, I understand there are a lot of them, but if we want to achieve the objective of the law to provide people with a legal roof over their heads to write that it's their property, to have a place to live and not to shake tomorrow, whether someone's going to drive them out of there or to tear down their facility. It's okay, but I don't think the spirit of the law should go in the direction of 100 squares trades, business spaces, weekend houses, protected areas, etc. Where does it say that the buildings built on other people's land will be registered? Article 4 and even its amendments provide that the possibility must be issued, i.e. to obtain land for regular use and to be left for two years, that one who has taken up foreign land should agree with the owner of the land and, if not agreed, the tax administration, i.e. the competent local self-government by force of the law, shall assess and determine the land for regular use of the facility, i.e. the land under the facility. So, it's a violent seizure of land and legal translation to another owner, and I can't call it anything else. These are two things that are problematic and that can produce much more problems. Of course, it's in our interest, too, and probably to everyone sitting in this assembly hall that as many of these illegal objects are introduced into the legal system as possible, but I don't think these provisions are the happiest and they're not going to solve all our problems, especially those of built objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13527	Thank you. Borislav Kovacevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13528	Madam Vice President, let's make a deal, we're done officially now if that's what it was... (President: Just to tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured? ) Article 106(1) We've finished our amendments on Article 1, let's make a deal if we're going to keep doing this the way we did it in Article 1, then I'm going to have the right to tell you to get out of the O.R. As far as I know, we've finished the debate in principle. Madam Chairman, you insist, here's an hour to let most of the participants in the debate continue the debate in principle. Shall we agree once in the congregation to do what's on the agenda? Even here with all due respect, some have said, we discussed in principle, we will debate today and you will feel it. Please put it in order, we have shown in earlier discussions that there can be a debate in detail only on amendments, and do not continue the debate further in principle. It doesn't, of course, apply to the minister because he's been put into a situation with such a debate that he has to spend time on something again, something he doesn't need to spend his time on. Come on, let's get this straight, and we'll all stick to it, warn the man, and he'll get on track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13529	Thank you. I don't think there's any damage to article 106. Rules of Procedure, I think you are wrong that most discussions are being conducted in principle, so my opinion is that MPs have mostly talked about amendments, of course they have the right to pay wide attention, because this topic is really in the interest of the Serbian citizens, so I think that it is not injured, you, if you want to make a statement in the day of voting on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You want, in the voting day, we'll be pleading on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13530	I'll agree part of it with Minister Ilic when he says we're not going to go on the ground now and tear down the facilities. No, we won't, but your first sentence was, this isn't legalization, this is a record of property rights. Isn't enrollment in property rights legalized? You should have defined the subject matter of this law in a different way and talked about something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13531	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13532	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, bearing in mind that in these discussions, in addition to Article 1, which has been declared by the amendments, mentions Article 4 which has been accepted, I must draw attention to the legal institute of land for the regular use of the facility. It is not the point of criticism that the amendment that this member has corrected, has really improved it, has corrected Article 4, by finally avoiding this possibility of taking up property rights and I have to draw attention to what has already been said and in the principle debate. We, the Institute of land use rights for the regular use of the facility, do not have only in this law. In this law, we must have it in the part where it's land in the gauges of the facility, in the basic building. It can't be any other way than land for regular use of the facility. In addition, if we translate this into one common folk language, as far as we are going, it is that land for the regular use of the facility must represent a certain type of load or a restriction of the cadastrian plot. It is also regulated in the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations, regulated in the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, except that in the Law on Planning and Construction it is defined as a land that corresponds to the area of the building plot. What's that surface? It's a minimum area for forming a building plot. In the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, this is a little wider. Here it was necessary and the amendment of the SPS goes in that direction that it must be determined that this right as a burden must exist because the object was built on that part of the plot. Simply, the owner of the facility can't fly to him. It must have a certain right of access to the access route, it must use that object to replace the facade, change the ticks, etc. To avoid being overly simplified and trivial, the amendment that has been accepted was clarified and the definition of a member of the 1st land for regular use of the facility exists and does not work on the usurpation of property rights, we have avoided it and we have come to the situation that at least in that part the law has a certain quality, and we remain in the fact that once again by a single law, the Law on Planning and Construction of all these anomalies can be corrected, all the mistakes it points to, what you have called on ministers to do, to lead to what they need to lead to, to a final goal, and this is a law not ambiguous, clear and in the greatest interest of the citizens who benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13533	National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13534	My amendment is the consequence of amendments to Article 1 which I have already explained and I am fully pleased that Mr. Minister and I fully agree on the view of this position and the law in general, because it is quite clear that it is difficult and impossible to reconstruct the project documentation for most of the facilities. According to my data, these studies are slightly larger than 20,000, going up to 100,000 euros to arrange a full analysis of the stability of the facility. This law obviously doesn't provide for a building permit and most of these facilities won't get a permit. We agree that they can't be registered on other people's land, so it's actually going to be a record of those who have all the conditions and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13535	You want to do the same thing? People's MP Olga Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13536	It seems to me that prescribing the basis for enrolling property rights on illegally built buildings and applying these conditions from this particular bill creates only a conflict between those laws. These laws are the Law governing planning and construction, the Law on State Fair and Cataster, as well as the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations. After all, I will agree in part with what the ruling majority MPs are saying, as well as part of what the minister himself said, since he indirectly admitted that this was actually meant to go to the adoption or amendment of the Law on Legalisation or to the adoption of a completely new law on planning and construction, and not first to go to such a special bill on the registration of property rights to illegally built buildings. I think the order here is completely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13537	National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Boris Rankovic and Aleksandar Senic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13538	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the key members of this law and one of the key differences between us who wrote these amendments and Prime Minister Ilic, who suggested that everyone could enter the right of property, whether they paid compensation for the construction land or not. The last time we talked about this, there was a huge injustice, because most of our citizens paid compensation for the construction land when they were given a building permit or when they legalized their facilities in the legal process. In this amendment, we have proposed that up to 100 squares, therefore, those people who are socially endangered, those people who have no other place to live, those people who depend on enrolling their right to property and the ability to exercise their right to life, that they can freely enter property rights. But we also said that all those who have more than 100 square meters have to pay compensation for the construction of city building land. Why did we say that? Because the tycoons you're trying to do right now, and I believe you'll succeed, given that you haven't accepted this amendment, the tycoons that built on the Daedrin in the extra zone, which came out several floors more than they had a building permit, can now, in your opinion, enroll property rights without paying a fee to edit city building land. There's no small fee in the extra zone. The fee can be 200 euros and 300 euros per square. You are now allowing them not to pay that fee, or to put hundreds of thousands of euros in their pocket. You can come to the Sava Wreath, you can come to Dedinje, you can see what objects that have failed to legalize in this period, couldn't get a building permit in Belgrade, and now you're allowing them to pass any regulations, come and not pay compensation for the construction land and enroll property rights over their apartments. So these people didn't separate from their mouths to make a thousand squares on Dedinj, which is worth a million euros. It's not the ones you were talking about, so now you have to let them do it for free. No, I don't. You provide them with something else, which is that they additionally earn 300 000 euros, 400 000 euros, 500 000 euros, because they will sell those apartments or have already sold them at a market price of three thousand euros per square cent. Please think again. This amendment wasn't just meant to be written. So, up to 100 squares, to those people who don't have another apartment, whose first apartment, whose roof is above their heads, should be given free of charge. It's not the need to live, it's the luxury. You know that well. The Law on Planning and Construction provided for a provision of up to 100 squares free of charge, and beyond that, compensation must be paid, as all others have paid. In this way, you make discrimination, you make injustice, and you put money in your pocket to those who are the richest in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13539	MP Srdjan Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13540	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand people who only look at Santas and I understand that when they see Santas, they see two kinds of tycoons. One kind of tycoon they've already helped, so they've legalized their own and other tycoons that are their opponents, so they can see what they'll do with them. However, it is not Serbia's grandfather. Serbia is and Margita, Serbia is and Leskovac, Serbia is also another small village and what are we going to do with these people then? I got a call today from people from Caludier. It's not a village where tycoons live. Kaluderica is a village where ordinary and honest citizens live, where three or four generations live in the same residential facility. People say there's 20 of them in a residential building. The housing is over 100 square meters, but why would we damage them and discriminate and bring them into a subordinate position, for the sake of those on Dedinj where, say, 500 squares live one? So, if we really want a socially responsible state, if we want to help the most socially vulnerable, then we have to move our eyes a little bit, look into the interior, towards the rural part of Serbia, and then we come up with a very clear result -- that people say that it's a good thing that this majority supports the socially endangered, and that it's actually a game of words, you know, we wouldn't be at Dedinj, in fact, favouring the tycoon that they can still have. We need to look from another angle as we help the tycoons. We help the tycoons by not legalizing everything that those people who have craft facilities a few hundred squares, so when Serbia is multiplied, 150 municipalities per seven, eight settlements, how many are, then we destroy the competition. We have to allow these people, because of them, to legalize and thus encourage competition, through craft, through small, medium-sized enterprises, and it destroys tycoons. Let's look at it from that position and if we look at it on this side, I see the minister's proposal just as creating a competition that helps tycoons destroy and create competition that can really be fought on the market by those living in rural parts of Serbia, in socially endangered parts of Serbia. If we look at it from that point of view, then I fully understand Velimir Ilic's proposal, and in that sense I think it should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13541	Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13542	Mr. Honorable Minister Ilic rightly called on all MP groups to make their contribution to obtaining a law in the final version that would fully justify the purpose of its existence. Somehow, we have expressed confidence that, given the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, the Law on State Preference and the Cataster of immovableity, the Law on Planning and Construction, which are still in force, is simply impossible. We've looked at all the amendments. Even if all the amendments were adopted, we'd get one "frankenstein" from the law. Mr. Minister, we fully understand your good intentions. The problem you've faced is a problem that you haven't created. It's an inherited problem and it's been dragging around for decades. But lawyers aren't petty. They just want to, so I understood the discussions of all colleagues who, from a legal point of view, not with a demagogue aspect or a sociological aspect understand this issue, get one law that will be legally perfect and that will be in accordance with the existing law and with the Constitution, but it's simply impossible. I understand someone who's not a lawyer saying this isn't legalization. Minister, registering property rights in public books is legalization. There is no other term for that legal act. We, on the other hand, have the Law on Legalization. In the light of the refusal of this amendment, you say that under the Law on Legalisation, still in force, compensation for the construction land must be paid, and that fee is not paid under this law. I think this law will, when it comes to the door of the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, be declared unconstitutional. I understand the proposal of this amendment, but in a legal sense, it is even too much to state that this law should comply with the existing law. It's simply meant, but well, the extra head doesn't hurt. Secondly, I also understand the proposing's intention to meet people who are first owned by family households, which is a good socio-economic measure, a good populist measure and a measure that is quite right, given the problem you mentioned, which we are aware of, that it exists not on Dedinj, but on the territory of all Serbia. It's a similar situation to when the governor was respected and tried to explain to us, and failed, the difference between the appeal to the Constitutional Court and the constitutional appeal. Really, with so much legal experience, I couldn't possibly understand the legal difference between those two categories. The Governor has spent all day here, but she has given us no explanation, as your good intentions are not enough argument to accept your intention. I'm saying, I don't doubt at all the best possible intention of solving a huge problem, but in the debate in principle, you said that the lawyers were a little bit more petty. Believe me, we're not petty. If you do not dispute the constitutionality and legality of this law before the Constitutional Court, I will first apologize to you when you come to parliament and I will say that I have been wrong in a legal sense. That's why I think, given everything that you've accepted, everything that exists in the bill and what's visible is going to be the final version, that this is one francestin of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13543	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13544	I wanted to direct a replica to my colleague, Shina, who obviously didn't understand me very well, and now I understand that the SNS advocates that the city or municipality should not be paid by the one who built a 200 square-square apartment and the one who built 10 apartments of 200 squares and the one who built a 300 square-square house. Are you telling me that they should be privileged in our society? Therefore, those who have the first immovableity, who live in this immovableity, should not be privileged to be allowed to have a place to live, in an apartment of up to 100 square meters, but also in Dedinj and Kaluderica and everywhere, in all of Serbia, someone who built ten apartments to sell further, should not pay compensation to local self-government. Do you know what you're saying? Do you know that in this country, since the wall's all paid compensation and everyone's paid a fee to this day, and then the SNS came to power and no longer has to pay compensation? Do you really think that way you'll get points from citizens? People, please think about what you're saying and think about what you're doing. You allow those who have illegally built, without any paper, even on other people's land to enter property rights on an apartment of up to 200 square meters. It's an amendment adopted by colleagues of Antic. Apartment up to 200 square meters? Guys, it's a luxury. To enroll the right of property without paying compensation to the municipality or to the city? Wait, now what's the category of people who show up in our society who suddenly don't have to pay and everyone has to pay until today? Everyone in legalization had to pay, and now there are some who don't have to pay. What does that mean? All those who've paid so far, what are they? Second-class citizens? They looked stupid. So anyone in this country who pays something to the state turns out to be stupid, because they can always come to power and say, "You can do it for free." People, first of all, it's discrimination. Secondly, it's a huge injustice. Third, he can't pass the Constitutional Court. They can't pay in a regular procedure, and they don't pay under Velya's law. Those in legalization pay, and those in Vela's law don't pay. Guys, that's impossible. Please don't share people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13545	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13546	You know how, I see it's like tomorrow's election, so we're running some election campaign and we're telling a story. It is true that there are many objects that are illegal on Dedinj. Does anyone who has been running power in Belgrade for 15 years know there's no sewers in Dedinj? Do you know that, say, the whole Umka has no sewers? Gentlemen who have run this town for 15 years, do you know that you've charged for Stepu's 21m euros to house the settlement and you didn't invest one euro, you didn't come to the field, and the people there are trodden mud? You've charged everything. You've charged for everything. In Kaludjerica, you have charged for the legalization of many objects, in Ovca, in Borca. What did you do? Nothing. You just pinch the circle of twos a little bit, and you think that's it. Gentlemen, we have said that the actual costs that are invested in the facility will be paid in the future, not some of your tariffs in the zones, and you have no obligation at all, and in the beginning, you will charge it well, put it in the register and act crazy. What do you call it when you charge for something and you don't? We're chasing you every day to take care of that, to build a school, to build a kindergarten. You've charged it all. That's where 20,000 people live. Of all you've charged cash at the beginning. What did you do? Where's that? Where did you take that, gentlemen? So don't talk like that. You're talking to me about Santa? I don't know anyone on this side who lives on Santa's side, and I don't know any of your clerks living on Santa or the Shadow. I don't know why you like Santa so much when there's no sewers. You're all going to Santa's. As soon as you got a clerk or a Senyak or an Santa, and now you liked it a little bit around the temple of St. Sava. And that's where you like to hang out. Let's be correct and talk about the amendments, the subject that's on the agenda today. Let's not do that EPP, we're talking now, we're defending someone. Half your grandfather's been kidnapped. Why didn't you return in 15 years to your former owners? Whose house is that? Someone was kidnapped, a martyr who lives in 30 squares today, his grandfather, his great-grandfather, etc. I'd like to ask you to pay attention to the amendments, talk about what's today's topic, not to talk about EPP. That's what we've been listening to for days. That really doesn't make sense. It's not an election campaign, don't be wrong and let's tell empty stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13547	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, if I had come to Serbia from now I don't know which other countries, I would say - this young man speaks wonderfully. However, we do not suffer from amnesia. Serbian citizens are healthy people who know well how they've lived for the past 12 years, and I'm going to ask you a question. Mr. Minister, perhaps you can answer as well. Who is responsible for the fact that there are millions and 300,000 illegally built buildings in Serbia, if a colleague says that everyone who worked and worked in the previous period paid compensation for editing city building land? Wasn't it a campaign to build, so when the foundation is dug, that's what I told you in principle that a building to build takes months to pass. Which means that some of the local self-governments run by the DS were staring at each other's eye, everything depends on which pocket something went into. Who's responsible for that? Who is responsible because 12% to 15% of legalization has been carried out so far under your law? The Serbian Progressive Party and this Serbian Government or the DS-led government? Don't make us, don't insult us. This is how we target, recognize the problem. These objects are made, they won't collapse, something has to be done with them. We also need this for the sake of plan regulation and for these people to be able to dispose of these facilities. No one puts citizens in first and second-class citizens here. We want to regulate and put an end to it. That's the purpose of this law, and therefore don't make some populist things that live in 30 squares, who in 130 squares... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... We do not make a distinction between citizens and allow this area and all other areas to be regulated properly by law and in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13549	Replica, MP Srdjan Shain.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13550	I understand that you are leaving your perception, that all the MPs who are members of your parliamentary group must say what the President of the DS is saying, Mr Gilas. Unlike this perception, I am here as a coalition partner, I do not express the opinion of the man I highly respect, who is the president of the SNS, or the opinion of the SNS. I have expressed the position of the Roma Party, because I can use the mandate in this parliamentary group in accordance with my beliefs, and what we agree on, we agree because it is a programme story, not because I am presenting the SNS' position. Therefore, you have made a grave mistake, you are returning to the past, you think that what they said, for example, Dusko Jovanovic in the Vojvodina Assembly, must be the mandatory position and president of the party. Let's realize they're new to democratic times and that's not the case. My idea wasn't what you were saying, my idea was something else. To direct your views from the Heritage to rural parts of Serbia, not to write politics and laws to those who live on Dedinj, and today you know where they are, but to write the laws according to the needs of ordinary citizens, according to the needs of agricultural producers, where necessary craftsmen and Serbia must be a country of citizens living in it, not a country of political elites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13551	Replica, Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13552	Minister Ilic, I really think he is insulting the Parliament's dignity to this burazeric address in this room. We were there even when we spoke in principle. You held your hand in your pocket and talked about something that had nothing to do with the subject. You mention today things about the Law on Planning and Construction, and they're not the subject of the agenda at all. On the other hand, Stepa Stepanovic knows well that there is both water and electricity. You know very well that they have both water and electricity and you know very well that this fee is charged at the expense of local self-government and that no one can take that money and carry it and put it in their pockets. You don't charge it in cash, maybe you're used to being charged in cash. Maybe somewhere else, in Belgrade it wasn't. A colleague, Babic, asked the question when these legalized facilities were built. They were built before 2000 when Aleksandar Vukic was minister. So a million and 300 thousand objects were built mostly, 90% before 2000. We've been dealing with legalization all along since 2000. It was legalisation in law since 2003, and Minister Ilic was Minister and 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and I don't know what years. Don't ask us why this isn't over or why it wasn't done. From the time you were in power, before 2000, these facilities were built. Does Karic have more than 100 squares or less than 100 squares on Dedinj, I assume you can answer that since Karic is a member of the SNS parliamentary group? There are several houses, there are thousands of squares on Santa. Probably if there's something illegal that's going to legalize it now and sign up for it. (President: Time. ) I will use the right of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13553	You can call again after you've asked for the right to reply. You have the right to report back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13554	Only in one sentence. We suggest up to 100 squares to whom it's the first apartment that doesn't have to pay the fee. Everyone else like everyone else in this country has to pay a fee because they've paid everybody so much and they've paid everyone in legalization.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13555	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13556	It's true that you suggest up to 100 square meters, but you're DS as much as I remember. That's your suggestion. We appreciate your proposal, but most people do. Don't repeat it a thousand times now – up to 100 squares. We heard. People will vote. If you win, congratulations. It'll be a day to vote. There's one more thing to tell you, Mr. Konstantinovic, because I know you very well and I've known you for a long time. We've been everywhere, in America, in the State Department, right? We've also met with Albright, many officials. You didn't think that way. You know when I was mayor of this town, Chuck, remember? You were the government in Belgrade at the time. You know when you came to me and said, "All the billboards in the roadland are at my disposal, and these are your billboards today." Now, that's all cash, Mr. Konstantinovic. I don't know who they're being led to, but I know they're yours. You sold us all and charged us all in cash. So, don't you talk about that left hand, right pocket... (President: Please return to the topic. )... Get a Serbian citizen to say Ilic charged him something in cash. Let him come here and say it, and I'll tell you thousands if you need to.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13557	Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13558	In order for someone to change, he has to understand and accept and admit all his shortcomings. A little while ago, my colleague Konstantinovic was headed that way, that's good. He admitted that the government of the DS in the past 12 years has been unable to do certain things. I'm going to accept that all these millions and 300 objects are, and that's verifiable whether they were made before 2000 or after. Even if they were made before 2000, what did you do for 12 years? What were the inspection services doing? What were local self-government doing? What did the parliament of the Republic of Serbia do, that it could not have bothered people more, forced them to complete these facilities, legalize these facilities, introduce some normal flows? It's good. You realized you weren't doing well. You realized you weren't able to do that. It is fortunate that the elections were in May and the SNS accepted with its coalition partners the responsibility of leading this country and that is what is done, Mr Konstantinovic this very way. If you insist, we can also talk about how these funds have been spent. Deep down. As it was charged to arrange city building land, and then the funds were not used for it but used for the campaign, for various other things, perhaps for the billboards mentioned by Mr Ilic. But you've made a good confession that you're not capable. The Serbian Progressive Party has accepted its responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13559	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13560	Minister Ilic, when you have no arguments and do not know what to answer, then you make it up. It's a shame to lie. It's a shame to lie anywhere, and it's especially a shame to lie in this hall in front of the citizens in direct transmission. How dare you invent such a thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13561	Master Velimir Ilic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13562	You know how, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't like to talk about the past, but if someone insists I say something, I'll tell you, and you say it's not like that and look me in the eye. You're like one little mouse hiding in my friend's house... . (President: Please, Minister...) I'm sorry. You were here with Mr. Homen in hiding, and I was visiting you, bringing you to survive. Do you remember that? So we were with Milja, you two, at the State Department. Do you remember Dragan Milicz who you were with? Do you remember the Angelina that fed you, where we kept you in shock because you were scared and fed, drinking to survive as a fierce resistor? Is that what happened? Then you jumped on the political scene when you got married, played with the vice president of the government. Then you came up with a huge plan. Then you started – billboards, this, that, etc. Now you're telling me stories. Yesterday I listened and watched some shows that were broadcast and I remember what you were saying. Don't let me quote you here right now. So please, don't get on the subject. Let's go back to the law and these amendments. You're not as clean as you think, and don't open that topic, it's very heavy and awkward. I wouldn't want to usurp time to the MPs. I came here to talk about the law, about the amendments. If you have anything concrete, let me know. If you want controversy, there'll be opportunities, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13563	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13564	I have something concrete. From word to word, everything you said you lied, which tells you that you are a pathological liar. (President: Please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't know how you're not ashamed to make it up. Where did you get all this imagination about saying things like that for a congregation speaker?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13565	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13566	I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that is, Article 105, and Article 106, because unfortunately, whenever it comes to discussion in particular, it is usually what is happening now – a debate between the largest opposition party and the largest opposition party. There's always an authorised promoter, one of the ministers who can't wait to see it, so he walks into such a debate. The minister himself said he wanted to talk about the law, so let's finally go after that Article 2, and let's talk about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13567	I couldn't agree more. I'd be happy to get back to the discussion in detail. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13568	Members 106 and 107, minors of the same base. I think it is extremely inappropriate for a congregation home in a situation like this, when a lack of argument is transferred to a raised tone, to untrueness, and to direct address MPs in one inappropriate way. I think, Mr. President, that you should intervene here, no matter how often guests from the government are in a position of privilege here. These things are not only distracting the debate, but in a well-known manner, Minister Ilic is trying to get us all into the mud he is in, and we really don't want to participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13569	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13570	By amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm looking for headphones first. I've already skipped two amendments because of the marbles, and something for the specific language that our political opponents serve. As far as I understand the amendment, it refers to the fact that up to 100 squares of objects are not paid for land and over 100 to pay. The amendment doesn't say whether it's on Santa's or not. Here, I, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, guarantee that there are no peasants there, none of my peasants are on Dedinj. I guarantee it with my own head. But I believe these political peasants and bastards have as much as you want. I have no interest in defending those who are on Santa's, because there are my supporters and the population that I don't belong to. Those who once may have lived, had land and pastures there, have long been expelled from there. Someone else is building on their pastures. I understand the amendment that the promoters want to collect compensation for building land. Up to 100 squares doesn't have to, but over 100 squares should, provided it's his first real estate. If it's a woman's first real estate, it doesn't matter. So, they've already made it. There's a lot of things said here. I can't believe there was a building on Santa for a living Gilas without a building permit. I can't believe a political quality like that allowed something to be built on Santa without a building permit. I think he's been there over six years. Before him was also his party colleague. In 12 years, it was built without permission on Santa. I simply cannot believe that such a single government in Belgrade, such a supreme authority, allows something to be built on Dedinj without a building permit. Now something's moving to us. These tycoons, mentioned by the entire parliamentary group, have nothing to do with me. In 2000, there were changes, and I watched those tycoons they worked with. They're not with me. I watched you sell candy for three euros. I didn't sell it. You worked with the tycoons. You've seen how nice it is to be a tycoon, so some of your own have become tycoons. Karic was a billionaire, but a billion and something was taken from him by the state. But who became a billionaire afterwards? Your president. Well, we'll take that billion with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13571	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13572	I now advertise the violation of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. I've just been 106 and 107, and now I'm advertising a violation of article 108. I don't think this makes any sense. I think some people here are working hard enough, preparing for both the debate in principle and the debate on amendments, but they don't have to be the hostages of the biggest political opponents at this point. I guess we can finally get going and talk about some member of the bill. This always turns out, every congregation debate, especially in particular, always looks like a circus nobody needs in this country. You don't need it as a position either, and we don't need it as an opposition. Let's show at least a little bit of construction, a little bit of elemental respect to each other, a little dignity, and finally a little work, because this isn't work, this is not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13573	I don't know if you listened to what MP Marijan Risticevic said. He spoke of an amendment proposing that compensation be charged for legalising an object of 100 squares and more squares be charged or not charged. I've invited all the MPs, I always do, so I'm doing it now and I'm asking them to respect the dignity of this assembly, because they're part of this house themselves. Anyone who does not respect the dignity of the congregation does not respect himself first. I am fully aware and convinced that all people and the general public of Serbia will make a very good conclusion and assess it and when the moment comes, in a political way in the elections, punish this as one of the elements of the work in this country. I can influence it partially, but I can't do it completely. It depends largely on each of us. Whether I can convince anyone to discuss or debate in one way, I really can't. If I were to apply a strict and rigid Rules of Procedure and punish for every hard thing, then I would consider a debate in this House. Then this parliament would be completely sterile. That's not my goal either. So I'm using the appeal again. All right, I understand the heat of political struggle. At one point, it culminated. I hope now we can return to our regular work and discuss the amendments ahead of us. We still have 50, 60, maybe 70 amendments ahead of us, we have enough space to point to everything that you think is good or not good at this law. MP Zoran Ostojić. By amendment? No, I don't. Like a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13574	I listened very carefully, but I do advertise the Rules of Procedure. I've silenced Minister Ilic. That's where you violated Article 107, because he first started talking outside of the amendment. I'm sorry, but what Minister Ilic was saying was a distraction from the amendment and an attempt to dissuade this debate. And I felt it. All right, the minister is your authority. He's got that way. He doesn't want it to be exactly and clearly talked about the amendments, so people don't understand that this isn't legalization and that they'll be fooled. All right, but don't justify Ambassador Risticevic. He did mention it in the first sentence, and then he kept talking about tycoons. I don't know why you all got excited because Ambassador Konstantinovic used that word. He used that word, that this goes into account, in favour of the tycoon. You all have your tycoons, okay they have theirs. What's the matter? Minister Ilic, you allowed this to come to this place and then you proceeded, letting Mr Risticevic talk about Gilas, the tycoons, the Daedinj, etc. If we're going to talk about tycoons, if we're going to talk about who did what, who was hiding where on the Jelica Mountain or whose jars in the courtyards were found with gold, how families were tried, etc. We can. But you know what, that means we won't talk about the law, and that means the law will be passed. They're just gonna say one more thing. It doesn't matter, Mr. Ilic, which most will vote. It doesn't matter. This law will fall in the Constitutional Court faster than you will adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13575	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13576	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, I would support the amendment to Article 2 submitted by my colleagues Konstantinović, Rankovic and Senic, for the simple reason that in politics is a basic tool, a basic tool for work, a basic capital that we all carry and enter into it, a word. The minister mentioned the EPP, although it may not be appropriate in a congregation debate, each here wants to explain and explain its criticism or support for a certain legislative proposal. The fact is that the law was announced to help people who solved their suffering, who separated from their mouths, avoided, or could not go on vacation, took from their children, to build a roof over their heads. And I don't see why this amendment, which allows people to be freed from compensation, if it's the first immobility in their lives up to 100 square meters, and allow it. It is important to accept and meet those poorest citizens who are allegedly promised the law, because this government is constantly between the declared intentions and the achieved objectives. Because the same citizens who live in these houses up to 100 square meters, and because of which this amendment should be adopted, the consumer basket has grown 20,000 dinars in seven months. There were 43,000 dinars and that figure came in 12 years. In seven months, there were 63,000 dinars. It is important to come out of this amendment to meet the declared goal of helping the poorest citizens in this country, because the previous law of the minister has pledged to cut off two billion euros in investment. The result is that one tycoon, whom the governor's justice has won Luka Belgrade ten times as cheap as it needs to be. Only. It is therefore important to adopt this amendment. Showing the manner in which the government keeps its promises to the poorest citizens in this country, and because the only thing that is being realized in this country at the moment is the DS policy on Eurointegration and resolving Kosovo's issue, which for this government represented treason in the pre-election campaign. It's not enough, the minister said to look into your eyes, and look you in the eye, it's not enough to put a flower on a board marking the place where Zoran Djindjic was killed. Make a difference by adopting values. Learn to distinguish between stealing and stealing, because those two terms don't exist, there's only one. You can continue to execute the H.I.S., it's over... (President: you are fully aware that this has nothing to do with the amendment. ) Dear President, if at one coffee I invite you to, you will ever find anything to do with this amendment in the speech of some MPs before me, I will pay for coffee for a month. But I'll be done. I think it's important to adopt the amendment. I believe that after many failures, when it comes to the lives of the most vulnerable in Serbia that this government has made, it is important that at least this gesture shows that they care. The election will not be won by a hack, but by the consumer basket, which will be at least 10,000 dinars in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13577	National MPs Radojko Obradovic and Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the amendment to Article 3. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13578	I support what my colleagues have suggested, erasing a member like this, primarily for the following reasons. The provisions of this Article 3 which we are now discussing are in complete contrast with the subject matter of the law referred to in Article 1, also, of that same bill, because it stipulates that the authority which is responsible for enrolling the rights of its own unambiguous solution will enter the right of property on the facility and building land, if the owner of an illegally built facility is registered as the holder of the right to use on a catastrian plot on which an illegal facility is built and if the conditions laid down by this law are met, thus allowing the registration of property rights on construction land. Although the bill defines the registration of property rights only on illegally built buildings and not on illegally built land. You should either formulate the bill differently, or change the name of the text of the law yourself. What's worse is that this particular Article 3 does not foresee conversion at all, in fact, does not foresee paying the land conversion fee, so those owners of illegally built buildings will become owners of the building land without paying compensation. I already said that once, when we discussed it in principle, this way only promotes the private interests of the owners of illegally built objects, precisely in the public interest, which creates a number of assumptions, precisely for the emergence of what this bill will allow, which is only corruption and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13579	National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment, MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic were jointly tabled by the Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13580	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr. Minister, The Rules of Procedure give you the opportunity to withdraw this law before the debate on the law is over, and you really should take advantage of that possibility. The discussion of the principle and the debate in particular shows how much this law has huge shortcomings, shortcomings and cannot amend this law to be meaningful and to give any positive result. I really don't see what you're going to achieve positively with this law, even with the adoption of certain amendments, and that you're going to do very much damage, that's absolutely certain. This Article 3 provides for conversion even though the conversion as an institute is foreseen by another law which accurately and clearly prescribes the procedure of that conversion without compensation. You're literally entering the realm of each other's laws and setting up a whole new procedure, so the laws don't write. And if in such a divergent way we interpret all existing regulations in that case we enter into one general legal uncertainty. You said here that you actually have three important goals, which is, under the 1st, to finally introduce order into a million and 300,000 illegal objects. You were talking about a unique disaster in Europe, I guess Serbia is also kind of courting its catastra and bringing some standards to a catastre in Serbia, so that this catastre in Serbia could also become part of a single disaster in Europe. I guess that was the point. Third, to do something to this poor woman who built those millions and 300,000 illegally built objects. So, basically these are the three goals you're based on, and I just now explained to you through this amendment to Article 3. You don't take care of any other laws we already have. You do not worry about the solutions you propose to this law, which will directly oppose existing solutions legally and which will thus cause such confusion that this one will be inadmissible. So how do you think you legalize illegal objects in such a way that is directly opposed to one law-abiding methodology? I really don't see it, and you haven't given me an explanation, and you haven't supported anything that you've said so far that would change my mind. With this state of affairs in the Republic Geodetic Institute, I simply don't see how Serbia will become part of this European legislation and part of the European Catastrophe. As far as the poverty is concerned, I think you should finally explain that the poor will get nothing, that it will remain as is the current situation, as far as the real estate catastra is concerned, there will be some right to note, with the burden of unpaid construction and use permits, and you yourself have said that these permits are around 20,000 euros, so they will remain listed as some sort of burden on these immovableities and what is then achieved with that legalisation. I really don't see you achieving that goal here, doing something for the poor. So that's one demagogue story about all three declared goals. And during the debate on this law, it only deepens the idea that the law is one disaster. This law directly threatens the provisions of the Law on Fundamental Property and Legal Relations, the Law on Transport of immovableity, the Law on Planning and Construction, and let us return to conversion. You were very easily able to change a member of the Law on Planning and Construction that regulates the issue of conversion without compensation. With these changes, you could have avoided this kind of legal non-sension only by predicting that the conversion without compensation would be done under official duty, such as once nationalisation with a single seal of a state body in a cataster of immovableity without anyone's request without any address to the competent authority. You would have ended the matter of conversion. Why did you have to enter into a domain of conversion that is problematic already in the Law on Planning and Construction and only further created confusion on real rights and denationalization? Unfortunately, there is no political will here to regulate the state, and the regulation of the state also includes making one legal certainty.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13581	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13582	As I have experienced, this amendment tries to restore the title of the law and the purpose of the law to itself. Namely, since it is special conditions for property rights on buildings built without a building permit. So the law doesn't treat property on land. That's the problem some other laws treat. There will be a general confusion here in the application of this law, because the authority that solves the entry of property rights on land will not know what law to apply, whether the Law on Planning and Construction or this law regarding city building land and the registration of property rights on construction land. Is it necessary to pay compensation for the conversion of building land or will there be registration without compensation as proposed by this law? We'll have a situation where when the courts decide on this, they won't know what law to apply, whether one or the other. If they apply either one or the other, they'll do the right thing, and at the same time they'll be wrong. The courts in any situation will make a mistake because the law puts them in that position. On the third hand, the law provides that the authority responsible for the entry of property rights on immovable property should not be resubmitted the subject and the registration documentation. Imagine an officer who received an object for legalization and then you tell him at the same time – you can work under the Law on Legalization but you can also by this special law on the registration of property rights. The official will have no idea which law should be applied because they are so mutually opposed that their legal bringing into harmony is simply impossible. That is why I believe that this discussion of our parliamentary group should also be taken into account in the best possible intention, because indeed in a legally normative sense, in a practical sense, we cannot understand it because it will not be understood by people, officials who write down property rights or courts to find the right solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13583	MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13584	Thank you. Dear fellow Chikiriz, you're partly right. You're saying that this member should be changed because the law does not treat the title of property over the ground but only on buildings. There's one other thing our amendment wanted to avoid. Look, as an anti-communist, you should understand that. Imagine I own the right to use over the land, and that country is Borkov. One solution gets me right over the country, and then he can sue me, and these other people, everyone who paid for building permits and owned legal buildings, also under the Construction Law, have the right to convert the right to use into property rights of that land. They can't get it one way, they'll have to have two. So everyone who has legal facilities has to seek conversion without compensation for the right to use. Those who have an illegal facility should get one solution. You'll admit it's a crazy solution. Isn't it logical to enroll him for that 100 euros over the facility, and then according to the law that regulates the conversion without compensation, as well as those others who have a legal object unlike him, a paid building permit to then convert without compensation to that land. I really don't understand why you put property in here, or land, because it's a facility. I have the right to use, so do I. Here I have a legal facility and I have the right to use it, and I'm going to have to convert it without compensation to use city building land as property property, and here you want one solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13585	A new Article 3a of the amendment was added to Article 3 and added to it by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the gentleman is on his way, he asked me to defend his amendments. I missed the last one because of the marbles in the O.R. I'm not kidding about the earphone thing at all. A little jam is enough not to hear or chair, and the other side of the hall is heard only at breaks, and if someone gets up to talk, then we hear it much weaker than when he sits. So, in order to better monitor the session, I'm really not kidding, I need headphones to hear someone talk, if that's possible and technically feasible. As far as the previous amendment is concerned, it was prescribed in Article 2 that the documents were required to be entered on buildings and land. I think the amendment is not accepted, it's quite quality. Was he applicable in this form of law, I'm not sure. I believe the government had a reason why she refused. He proposed to Article 3 that if the owner of an unlawfully built facility is registered as the holder of the right to use on land of a cadastrian plot on which an illegal building is built, the authority responsible for entering the property rights with the evidence referred to in Article 2 of this Act shall, by one solution, enroll the property on buildings and building land, if the conditions laid down in this law have been met. In the case where the owner of an illegally constructed facility has been registered as the holder of property rights on land, cadastrian parcels, on which the facility was built, the authority responsible for the entry of the property rights with the evidence referred to in Article 2 of this Treaty shall provide a solution to the entry of property rights in favour of that person and in accordance with this law. So he predicted it, given that no amendment to Article 2 was accepted. I understand that, since the Government has not adopted the amendment to Article 2, which he has proposed to register land and property with, the Government did not accept amendment 3. The amendment says that the application of the law extends to the case when the former land user used his legal right and translated the right to use into property rights. The application is applied to those plots on which the land is owned by a number of persons, and these persons are the owners of a building built on the plot. There's a lot that's good in this amendment. I believe that some of the solutions will sometimes be used in some future changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13587	The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Radojko Obradović, Jovan Palalic, with the correction and together Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13588	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, in the principle debate, it was said that this was actually the most important and most sensitive member in the whole law. Moreover, the whole debate was about Article 4 and the consequences that Article 4. could cause. What I'm trying to say is that it's absolutely undeniable and I believe there's a will here in everyone's mind, wishes, intent, for the whole business to be introduced into one legal order of all millions and 300,000 objects. It's in the interests of citizens and the interests of the state. This topic is not controversial and I believe that the intentions of everyone here in the National Assembly, legislators, but also representatives of the government and the opposition are exactly the same. The thing that's going on here is how to ensure permanent legal certainty for all these citizens if they get into this whole business. I will speak here from that very aspect, from the legal point of view, pointing to the Constitutional Court's decision that can create major problems when this law is implemented, and precisely from the point of view of legal certainty. That decision is not innocent of the application of this law at all, especially in relation to Article 4. That's why I'm going to do some things, which concern this Article 4, which relate to the establishment of property rights on land that is not owned by a person who owns the property and, of course, the possibility of enrolling property rights, as foreseen here, on the object of a person who illegally built the facility. I can say that this amendment is a better solution than the basic part of the text, but it does not solve this problem of legal certainty either. Certainly, he will address the problem in a conversation with colleagues who have submitted the amendments. On the route the owner of the facility – the owner of the land will be able to achieve a better price, perhaps this period of two years will lead to this relationship relaxing between the one who established it raising an illegal object on the land of the one who is now seeking to solve the problem. I fear that this law, when it comes to the Constitutional Court, will have the same outcome as the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction and those provisions relating to legalisation. I would take this opportunity to take advantage of the very parts of the Constitutional Court's decision concerning the establishment of property rights over land. The Constitutional Court's decision literally states this - the court finds that the disputed provision introduces additional benefits for lawless builders. So here we're talking about those who have illegally erected an object on other people's land, by directly establishing a basis to benefit them, and to the burden of third parties, co-owners or sub-users of land, obtaining a lack of basis for having rights on land. So, the Constitutional Court directly states that this is unconstitutional and says – the court estimates that the Constitution guarantees the right to enjoy property peacefully and other property rights acquired under the law, which is, in this case, the right to adopt or co-exist, cannot in the sense of the provisions of Article 58. The constitution to be taken away by the fact of this legal assumption. Article 58. The Constitution allows for the withdrawal of property rights only in the public interest, which is not such a situation in this case, but is referred to as the interest of a person who has illegally raised an object, with compensation and does not allow such a basis for the acquisition of rights on land, nor is such a norm of law, if it is excluded from showing legal interest in further legalisation. So the Constitutional Court has decidedly stated that it is not possible under Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to establish the right of property on land on which an illegal facility has been erected. Our question and our theme is how will all those citizens who are truly rightfully and watching and expecting their right to be resolved today in the National Assembly, and that is what we all want, how will they be provided with legal certainty if someone goes before the Constitutional Court tomorrow for the assessment of constitutionality? They, of course, will, under this law and on the basis of the amendments adopted, be entered in the right of ownership, as stated in the position of the 1st amendment, and after two years, either by agreement between the owner of the land or the person who owns the facility, whether on the basis of a decision of the tax authority, that right will be entered. But what will be the consequence if this identical provision is read, which was in the same situation before that? Will they be guaranteed long-term legal certainty, or will someone say to them tomorrow – no, no, all that you have now written must be annulled because the Constitutional Court has made such a decision? Our dilemma is only here in that sense that we can permanently resolve the legal security of citizens, knowing this decision of the Constitutional Court? You know we've criticised the Constitutional Court a lot. Our party has a very big grudge, but we have to respect their decisions. We are criticising them now because they do not have the courage to make decisions on the disputed regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But whatever decision they make, including this decision, all the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia must respect. So the whole discussion today is a desire to establish the full legal certainty of those citizens who now rightly expect their legalisation problem to be resolved. We support every effort, but we want it to be permanently solved. By reading this decision of the Constitutional Court, I fear we will be witnesses that the Constitutional Court will make another such decision that will challenge these provisions. Of course, there is also the part that colleagues here have talked about, and as regards the equality of citizens and the court literally says – the court considers that the condition of legal equality requires and allows only that form of transfer of the right to objects acquired by illegal construction in the regime of legally recognised relations, which would be based on the subsequent implementation of all obligations relating to the construction of objects that burden each investor with legal construction. So they're very precise about this Constitutional Court decision. They are what they are, and now it is up to all of us to tell the citizens what is realistically obtained in their legal certainty by this law, and what can they expect if the proceedings are initiated before the Constitutional Court and what complications can happen if the Constitutional Court makes such a decision. It's very important that we keep this in mind when we decide this. So the question of gaining rights on land that is not owned by a person who has illegally raised an object is solved by Article 58. The constitution, which defines the right to property - is guaranteed the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. Article 2 – the right of property can be taken away or restricted only in the public interest. It would be some new expropriation law or something, where the state would declare that in the public interest it was taken from property rights, say, all that land, but it could be some other law. With this law, I'm afraid it will be temporarily resolved, but in the long run someone can ask the question - was this in accordance with the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-13-0.u13589	Thank you. We interrupt work and resume tomorrow morning at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
