ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27237	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to ask you to consider the situation a little bit in today's debate. This is one contract concluded with the People's Republic of China, which is extremely favourable for our country to build a highway, the Lig-Obrenovac section. We have entered the most favourable loan currently in the world with the Chinese, which is intended for Southeast Europe. We're the first country to get that loan from the Chinese leadership, the president of China, and our president's recent visit to the Chinese president. The credit is very favourable with 2% interest, with a grace period of five years, to end this investment from the League towards Obrenovac. I hope you'll support this assignment, because I repeat the loan is extremely favourable with a long grace period. Construction takes 36 months. Chinese companies have already come to Serbia, are preparing for these works and after this ratification in parliament, the works should begin. You saw in the draft budget that you got that our stake in this investment was planned by budget. Of course, the budget comes to you in parliament, and here's this loan contract will come to ratification and I hope we end it very successfully. You know that the Ljig-Preljina stock is currently being done and that the site has been developed for 50 kilometers, that the work is in progress and that the works are going much faster than the time is planned. The highway, which will end in 38 months' work, goes well ahead of schedule and will end significantly earlier than planned. We must now continue the second part in order to have entry into Belgrade and to be able to make an entire investment, because we are free to do it to the League, as we continue to have no communication with Belgrade. So this is one serious investment. There's been a problem so far. You know, it's a long time ago, that the Ibar Highway can't stand traffic anymore, that we have big problems, extremely high mortality on that highway. We have 27 thousand cars at Lazarets, over 17,000 in Preljina, and it's technically impossible, especially on weekends and holidays that traffic takes place and therefore there are very frequent problems. Therefore, please support this. We have another part that is extremely important and significant, which is double taxation with the state of Morocco. To avoid double taxes, to pay taxes both there and here, because no investment can endure, no contract can be concluded and we have to make a decision not to have that double taxation. I hope the whole of Serbia expects Corridor 11 to be done on time. A part of it started to work and very soon we will head towards Montenegro, to Bolari and we will go with Montenegro to Bar and open Serbia and Southeast Europe towards maritime roads. You know that Corridor 11 does not end in Belgrade, but continues traffic across the Chinese bridge, as we popularly call it, which is now working from Zemun to Borca and continues towards Temisvar, towards Ukraine, towards Russia, etc. It is an international corridor that will be very important and important for traffic in Southeast Europe, and thus also in Serbia. He's supposed to pull traffic to the seaways, to the port of Bar, and that's crucial. You know, according to the Strategy for the Development of Transport of the Republic of Serbia, we are focusing on the Bar both rail and airways, of course by the highway being built. Serbia has projects that will later develop to merge Corridor 10 and 11 with the Moravia Corridor and thus network Serbia into a network of highways that will significantly bring investors into Serbia and speed up traffic. Corridor 10 is doing the same thing means these two arms towards Macedonia, according to Dimitrovgrad, and it will all be done hopefully during this period which is also planned for all these investments to be completed around 38 months, that it will all be complete and completed. Therefore, if I did not owe the story, I would like you to support this proposal, to support the government of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday we gave a building permit for "South Stream", that it was an investment of a billion and 900 million with Corridor 11, Corridor 10, along the bridge ending in the Danube and other large infrastructure facilities that are moving in Serbia. Serbia will hire tolls and builders and I am glad to tell you now that as minister this year I signed three billion contracts and gave for three billion building permits where everything is covered financially and these works are moving. We're counting on the railways. It is nearly 850 million more, that the Moravski Corridor and some other investments will go, and that it will be somewhere at the height of five billion euros in investments in Serbia, which must employ roadways and builders, which will be a momentum for the start of Serbia's economy and for real budget filling through a variety of commitments that must be met according to the budget. Only in this way can we cause new employment and launch many processes planned in the Serbian economy. At Corridor 11, more than 2,000 workers work from Ljig to Preljina. About 72% are workers from Serbia from our largest firms carrying the job "Energoproject" and "Planum". Through this second investment, we will employ over 2,000 new workers. We'll secure new jobs. You know there's a lot of tunnels and bridges and construction works. That'll be followed by gas stations. It will be accompanied by hotels, motels, restaurants, various restaurants, salons. This will trigger the development of Western Serbia and the development of Central Serbia and bring new investment into those areas. Today, if you don't have a freeway, you're not suitable for investors who are coming. The opening of "shipmen" airport for civilian traffic is ending. By building a cargocenter, building highways, building a network of pipelines, and these three secondary arms, Serbia will enter major investments and a network of highways and pipelines and a new airport will be intertwined, which we will get next to both national and Belgrade and will be placed in countries very suitable for investment and for further work. Dear Members of the Parliament, I do not owe you one, I ask you to support this proposal. It's all up to you now. After ratification, the work can begin very quickly. I expect two, three thousand new workers to be employed next month. In addition to the two concessions that are under way, the tenders are under way in 40 days, all of them will be complete, moving on two more shares, and on Corridor 11, we will have over a billion and 200 million investments. I repeat, this loan is the most favourable in Europe. There's nowhere more favourable. I want this opportunity to thank the Embassy of China for helping on this project. I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of China, especially the president of China who took us in the lead with the President of the Republic of Serbia and asked that the funds be determined as soon as possible to lead this investment. And there are people who worked with me on these projects. There is also the “Kostolac” Termopower Plant. There are still some investments that have been received from these favourable loans and we have to do these jobs, because right now it's the cheapest money in the world, the cheapest one is gone, and we need to use it and do these work together very quickly. I would like the People's MP, Professor. I should like to thank Škundriæ for working very hard with me on this project and many MPs who came to the delegation to visit China and the former speaker of parliament who also participated in getting these funds and to include us in these subsidized loans which China has singled out and now speed up this process and that the works begin as soon as possible. Thank you very much, and I expect full support on this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27238	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27239	Dear Ministers, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a joint single search on the Bill of Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for the privileged buyer for the E763 Construction Project, as we call it from a mile away, Corridor 11, and I must say that Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic has done so, we have the right to call it the Obrenovac-Ljig Share, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese "Eski" Bank and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day supports the above proposed draft laws, certainly, and regarding the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement should first say that the realisation of important infrastructure projects is an important prerequisite for balanced regional development and for the withdrawal of new investments. That when I say it primarily, I think, the first one comes from the interior of Kragujevac, that this kind of regional development is very important. Regarding this legal solution, it should be said that Serbia-China's strategic partnership was established in 2009 and has contributed to improving the economic co-operation of the two countries, especially in the area of infrastructure projects. This makes it possible to enter the domestic market one of the largest economies in the world. Expanding economic co-operation is a joint task for the two countries to create conditions for major projects, especially in the area of transport infrastructure and energy. A joint project, I will deliberately remind you of this, building the Friendship Bridges contributes to improving economic co-operation. It is certainly China's first major project in the Balkans and I will say something about it at the beginning, that the bridge crosses the Danube River and thus contributes to a better traffic connection between Belgrade and Vojvodina. In addition to contributing to improving regional ties, it also allows for the intersection of Corridor 10 with Corridor 4 which connects Western Europe through Romania with the Black Sea. The bridge certainly has great importance for the capital. The total value of the investment at that time was 170 million. That's what I'm saying on purpose. About 80% of the funds were provided with favourable loans from China's Expo-impo bank and the loan was 3.2% at that time, if I'm not mistaken. This loan that we're now getting, which we're going to vote for, is 2.5%, and hopefully what you said to the Minister, is that it's going to be 2% in some period. So we're going in the right direction. I'm sure it's the most favourable loan there is in the world right now, which some country has won. In the construction of the bridge and in the good direction we are going, the participation of domestic enterprises was over 45%. At this point, I'm going to talk about it a little bit later, and the participation of our companies in all of this is going to be 70%. Chinese companies have certainly proven well at the realization of other projects in Serbia. The Chinese have good experts, apply state-of-the-art technologies, respect deadlines, which is certainly another prerequisite for Chinese firms to build a section of the highway on Corridor 11 or E 763, which will certainly, again, improve traffic infrastructure. The government of the Republic of Serbia, with representatives of Chinese firms, signed pre-contracts last December to build highways in Serbia. The company that will operate this section of road E 763 or corridor 11 is China Shandong International, and related to Corridor 11, from Obrenovac to Ub and from Lajkovec to Ljiga, and the CRBC highways in central Serbia and Vojvodina. The value of the investment for this loan we're talking about right now is $333,000,000, or 301,000,000 we're going to get credit and 10% will be funded by the state. The contract was made up, signed in Beijing on 26 August 2013. A little bit later I'm going to talk about whether these loans are a little better, I'm going to contribute to why we should vote for this and why these loans are favourable. I'm just saying that the length of the route is two 50-mile-long highways should be completed, if I'm not mistaken, in 38 months, right? The share of Chinese companies, I will now be concrete, in this project is 51% and domestic enterprises 49%. As the Chinese will engage domestic labour, so the participation of our forms will be 70%, that's just what I mentioned. Otherwise, speaking of a company to build, China Shandong International is a Chinese company, in favour of everything I'm saying, which built the longest bridge in the world across the sea. The bridge is 42 kilometers long, the bridge has 5,000 pillars, the value of $1.5 million investment. Regarding these other highways, the Chinese company CRBC will build two highways. The first sea corridor is 110km long, which will connect Pojate and Preljina. It is about a share that is to connect Corridor 10 to the future Corridor 11, i.e. the Belgrade highway -- the South Adriatic, i.e. with the port of Bar. Also, the modern highway will establish a better traffic connection between Chačka, Kraljev and Kruševec. That's certainly what I was talking about regional development. The area covers half a million inhabitants and is one of the most significant agricultural industrial regions. The second highway will connect Novi Sad via Irig with Rum, and it is planned to build a tunnel through the Frust Mountain. About 400,000 people live in the area and there are about 25,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. We certainly need to touch the subject a little bit and be honest, so let's just ask ourselves if these loans are favourable. I'm gonna say what I just said right now, anyway, they're good. This loan provides for Serbia to receive $301.000,000 to finance 90% of the total project value of $333,747,540. The maturity period is 20 years, including the period from the beginning, of five years, while the repayment period is the main 15 years. Fixed interest, once again in favour of all of this, and I think we should all support it without thinking, is 2.5% and it's certainly the most favourable loan right now. The cost of processing loans will be 0.25%, and when it comes to "Eski Bank", of which we currently receive credit and something to say, that it is one of three institutional banking organisations, authorized to implement state policy in industry, foreign trade, diplomacy, economy, finance and provide financial support and encourage exports of products and services from the second largest national economy in the world. In the world's largest Western economies, they estimate that the volume of its loans exceeds all the foreign loans common by the Member States of Group 7 – the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Great Britain, Canada and Italy. Based on the assessment of London's Financial Times, Eskimo Bank and China Development Bank received at least $110,000 in 2009 and 2010, to governments, developing companies, more than the World Bank's total loan in the same period. Also, you talked about it earlier, it should be noted that China has presented a plan for the investment cycle, which means investing $10,000 through loans in 16 Southeast European countries. From the total amount of China, a third of the loans will be granted under favourable conditions, which means a longer repayment period and lower interest rates than the market rate. By the way, what kind of force is this? It should be said that in China there are 11 largest bridges in the world, they built a railway line of 1,956 kilometers long, which is at 5,000 meters high, which is the highest in the world. Of course, if it were a country with huge development potential, it would confirm that China is the fastest growing economy in the world. In the last 10 years, China has achieved an average economic growth of 10.7%, well above the world average of 3.9. It's the second economy of the world, I'm talking about all of this, the largest industrial producer of countries with the largest foreign reserve of $3.2 billion. For example, in 2011, China invested over $74 billion abroad, and in 2012, the capitalisation of MEF with $43 billion. China, with 1.35 billion inhabitants, is making a gross social product of 7.6 billion dollars, representing 10% of the world's GDP. When we said all this, is it important for the Chinese to invest in Serbia? In the first place, it should be said that economic interest is much more complicated and complex, especially in market economy conditions. When economic cooperation is co-operated, it should be taken into account mutual interests, both sides. Good political relations are encouraging, they are encouraging, but for concrete economic co-operation, much more is needed. Of course, companies should use good political relations as a condition, as a good environment for investment. When it comes to China, we must always bear in mind the fact that it is a major SB force, which has never voted in favour of a resolution on sanctions against Serbia. For China, Serbia is someone who can also be a springboard in the EU. According to economic experts, it is worth investing in Serbia for several reasons. I'm going to give some sideshows, so, for comparisons, investing in US vault records brings a 1.6% interest, while for interest in Serbia's infrastructure, it's between 2.5% and 3.2%, as it was for the first loan we got. On the other hand, such favourable, bilateral and commercial loans Serbia cannot get safely from any country in the world. I would say, when it comes to economic co-operation between Serbia and China, the volume of trade in goods was only $4.3 billion in 2001, it reached $52.09 billion in 2011. This means that the exchange between the two countries has increased, with an average growth rate of 27.6%. The potential improvement, both in goods exchanges and economic co-operation in other segments, is particularly in the field of chemical, machinery, certainly automotive industry, as well as in energy and telecommunications. At the very end, certainly regarding this legal solution, I will once again say that in the day to vote, the JS parliamentary group will support this bill. Now only briefly on the bill to confirm the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes. In the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support this bill, as it provides a legal precondition for more efficient privatisation, the competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco's enterprises, i.e. the Kingdom of Morocco and the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly a significant contribution to improving bilateral economic and certainly financial co-operation. Also, confirming this bill is a significant prerequisite for future investments by Moroccan investors in Serbia's economy, i.e. creating conditions for their participation in the privatisation process, or for using appropriate financial instruments to promote higher forms of bilateral and certainly economic co-operation. The contract was signed on 6 June 2013 in Belgrade, but I always like to say what co-operation there is between us and Morocco. As for the volume of trade between Serbia and Morocco, the largest volume of trade was in 2008, when the total volume of trade was $25m. Unfortunately, Serbia exported only $4.3m, and imports to Morocco were $20.6m. In 2012, the value of exports was only $1.7m and the value of imports of $8.7m. In the first six months of 2013, an exchange of $5.5m was made, of which exports were 1.2m and imports were $4.3m. Surely there is a great space for further cooperation as far as this country is concerned. In addition, it should be said that, as far as old Yugoslavia is concerned, the volume of trade in goods was between $60m and $80m. That was back in the '80s. Morocco is a very important country in the region. At the very end, concerning both legislative solutions, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in Voting Day will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27240	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27241	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, today we have before us a proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the Construction of the E 763, more specifically for the Obrenovac-Ljig section. The E763 highway, or, popularly called the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway, is a link between Serbia and Montenegro, and in a broader context it will connect Romania, Serbia, Montenegro and Italy. Corridor 11 extends from Temisovar, via Vrsac, Belgrade, Cačka, Požega and Podgorica, all the way to Luke Bar, and the sea route will be connected to Barry in Italy. This corridor has great regional and international importance and, by all parameters, deserves to be found in a network of pan-European priority traffic corridors. The importance of this corridor was also defined by the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia from 1996 and 2010. The construction of the highway itself is carried out in accordance with the Strategy for the Development of Railway, Road, Water, Air and Intermodal Transport in the Republic of Serbia since 2008, which is another evidence in favour of the claim that the Government of the Republic of Serbia respects all strategic documents adopted by state authorities in the previous period and that it is trying to maintain continuity where it is in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the construction of the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway is that for sure. It is known that the works on the shares of the Ljig-Preljina highway, which is financed from the so-called so-called "Ljig-Plaise". Azerbaijani credit, in full swing and that this section of the highway is the most convincing construction site in Serbia, and not just at the moment. It's a construction site where the works are not late for any moment. It's a construction site where a domestic operation is engaged in the physical realization of a job with a minimum of 49% compared to the total contracted value of works. When I mention the engagement of domestic enterprises, I must point out that our participation in this contract is also specified in the same percentage, but the total engagement of our workforce is expected to be around 70%. With all the above mentioned in mind, it is vital that the works on the Obrenovac-Ljig section start as soon as possible, and the basic prerequisite for this is that the National Assembly ratifys an extremely favourable loan agreement with the Chinese "Export-Import Bank" so that this loan becomes operational early next year. In this way, we will become very likely the first country to use some of the total projected $10 billion and the special credit line that the Government of the People's Republic of China has devoted to investment in infrastructure and other projects in Southeast Europe. This is among other things the result of current activities at the level of the two governments in the area of implementation of the interstate agreement in economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure and the fact that three credit arrangements are under way, including the financing of the Zemun-Borch Bridge, which is vital to our capital. The Belgrade-South Adriatic highway construction project, which connects Corridor 10 and Luka Bar in the perspective as the most important goods-transport centre in this part of the region, has rightly earned the attention of the Chinese side. The construction of this highway will create a more quality link between the north and the south, fostering the overall social and economic development of the area through which the road is passing. Here I will only list municipalities and cities whose areas are to pass the highway: Belgrade, Obrenovac, Lazarevic, Valjevo, Ljig, Gornji Milanovac, Čačak, Užice, Požega, Arile, Ivanjica, etc. There will be a connection between the Danube ports and the Adriatic Sea. Hungary and Romania will connect, and the shortest route to southern Italy and Albania. Through Montenegro, the route goes further through Beran, Andrijevica, Matesheva and Podgorica, concluded with Luka Bar. The highway is affecting a wide gravity area with about 4.7 million inhabitants. At the same time, other operators from Central, North-Eastern and Eastern Europe will attract, areas traditionally seeking access to the warm seas. The overall route of the highway from Belgrade to Bar is approximately 420km. The highway is designed for a speed of 120km per hour, and in the mountainous area about 100km. As for the concrete shares, whose construction will be financed from this loan, it is the shares: Obrenovac-Ub, 26, 23km long. The contract was signed in May this year with representatives of the Chinese company "Shandong". Otherwise, it should be noted that this company is a leader in the construction and management of transport and infrastructure across the People's Republic of China, and this better recommendation is not needed. Only on this section are the construction of 14 bridge structures, as well as Ub loops. It also provides for the removal of 11 local roads, the construction of 16 pipe and boxed gaps, as well as the construction of eight support walls that will be built in about 4000 metres of cubic concrete. In particular, it is planned to move the regulation of 17 existing river streams on a large part of this route. In addition to all the above, this route provides for the existence of noise protection walls as one resting place. Likovac-Lig stock of 24km has also been signed with representatives of the pre-contracted company "Shandong". Construction of the Brancic tunnel is also projected, about 990m long. It's just a bunch of gatherings of all of this technical data and characteristics and the most unscrupulous saying that it's very difficult and complex, I'd say a real non-Imarian venture, which hopefully we'll leave in an amannet of future generations. The value of the total investment is $333m, of which the Chinese side finances 90%, or $301m through a loan that is preferential, meaning that the Chinese state covers so-called. interest losses by subsidising. That's why the loan is so favourable, I'd say it's almost unrealized. Because in today's time, where do the global financial and economic crisis find a fixed interest rate of 2.5% on an annual basis and a grace period of five years, with a 20-year maturity? I hope that the citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission are clear why the New Serbia parliamentary group will be pleased and happy to vote in favour of the bill, which will finally achieve the dream of hundreds of thousands and millions of citizens, above all in western Serbia, who have the right to the highway, who have the right to stand a chance, because each highway is a vessel for the development of the area. I wouldn't look back at the previous years where some of them tried to tear down construction, to prevent the construction of this highway. I also want to thank all those in the previous government who worked on this highway and about Minister Ilic and not to speak. I think three years from now, the contract will build a highway from Belgrade to Cačka. I personally ask you, Minister, on behalf of tens of thousands of citizens of the so-called The Corridor from Preljina to Pojata, that in some way you push it in government, because there is something that cares, that the works, or designs, are at the level, if not at the level of the League's share on Preljena, then that the works are intensified and that Serbia really, as you say, is being networked through both highways and gas roads. I repeat, in the day for the vote of New Serbia MPs, with joy and great satisfaction, they will vote in favour of this bill, and we ask the most politely, all the other parliamentary groups and MPs in the National Assembly, because this is certainly a bill that we should all vote for, all of us who participate in the work of the Assembly here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27242	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27243	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the construction of road infrastructure for Serbia is of immeasurable importance and due to the lack of highways in the previous period, all the important directions from Central and Western Europe are simply bypassing us and thus threatening us with the threat of abject economy. We know that in the last ten years it's been built about 40 kilometers of highway, and when the minister of traffic says a few days ago that we're approaching this European average, that it's going to be built 50 to 55 kilometers of highway a year, it really sounds like science fiction to me. Certainly, it is commendable that the state has finally turned to Western Serbia. Finally, we have concrete activities at the close, to say this infrastructure project from Belgrade bar to Požega. So we have those four parts of this highway. Now we know that based on the agreement of one with Azerbaijan, and the rest of this agreement, this second time based on credit and agreement with China in Annex 2 to this Agreement, we spoke a few days ago. It includes this section of Obrenovac, the E763 Lig Road also times E761 Ruma-Shabac, as well as the second phase of reconstruction of the Kostolac B thermal power plant. It is very important, therefore, that Serbia enters into the construction of this infrastructure project, and I say in this way closed this one part of the highway, at least to Požega. Of course, here today we are talking about credit and funding, and as all Serbian citizens need to know the way it is financed and the way their resources are actually spent, their money, we need to know how it works. Well, as Serbia, of course, is a country that has its own laws and which the first state must respect, all the state authorities, of course, and everyone else. I would ask the question – whether public procurement for the selection of contractors of these works has been carried out in some way, since we have a commercial contract signed by the Serbian Corridors, the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction and the company "Shandnong High Speed Group". How this particular company I know is a state-owned Chinese company was chosen. Also, since the very proposal for a loan law states that Serbia has carried out all the necessary procedures to implement the agreed commitments, so all permits and consents, etc. So, Serbia has done everything that needs to be done in the country receiving this loan, or loan. I wonder if you asked for the consent of the Public Procurement Authority, since it is necessary to avoid public procurement procedures. Also, whether we have chosen a loan bank in Eksim through public procurement, since it is one of the three banks that is operating in the People's Republic of China, or authorized to conduct certain state-owned operations in various areas, including infrastructure areas. I think it is very important that we know this as well as that we know the answer to the question – how did the state of Serbia regulate and plan to include Serbia's construction operation within the specific infrastructure project, but also the other infrastructure projects that we are working with other countries through credit, where they set certain conditions? As you know in Article 2(2) of this proposal, the law states that – goods, technology and services supplied from credit funds will be purchased mainly from China in accordance with the commercial contract and the annex of the 2nd agreement that I spoke about a few days ago, it says that VAT will not be paid on these goods and services. So I'm wondering if we're going to buy and import all that equipment, machines, whatever it takes, materials from China, or if we're going to import it here in Serbia and take and use the services of the roads of Ivanica Užice Unity or some other enterprises, for example from construction companies from Novi Pazar, Nova Varoshi, Preboj, etc.? I think if we close the doors to the construction industry and in state affairs, the state infrastructure business will in any case make our country go back faster than it does at this point. I was talking about it a few days ago, that our government might try to put a better position in negotiating for these loans, so that Serbia would have, of course, too, which is certainly important to build this infrastructure facility, especially if I'm talking about a highway or any other infrastructure facility, that it must once again be confirmed to place a position so that a little more or more resources are being poured into the country or help, for example. the construction industry or other kind of economy that it can do and that our economy can go forward, and certainly that Serbia is making something more. I know that this government is going to sort of cut the budget by building this highway to use the concession, sign a concession agreement for part of the Surcin-Obrenovac highway and part of Preljina to Požega. If I understood correctly the previous days, something I read was delivered, that is, asked for offers from several Chinese companies, so I'm interested in whether it's true? Did they ask for offers from these companies? Why just Chinese? Did we have the possibility of maybe asking some of the other companies maybe getting some better conditions? Of course, the state is not in debt, and the concession is a much better model and a really good model. I don't think that's entirely justified at this point because two sections of road in the length of 103 kilometers, one with a Chinese loan right now, and one with the government of Azerbaijan we're working on. These two remaining pieces, initial and final to Požega part of the highway we work through the concession. I don't think that's justified enough because it's not worth it. Only the whole way if we were to do a concessiono would be worth it for a concessionary, and the state would again if it gave this 103km toll to charge even a concesary toll. Then we'd be in a situation where we couldn't pay off these loans that we'd be paying off in the next 20 years. Certainly, the state of Serbia could make quite a profit or a concessionaire pay as much as it would satisfy that Serbia could repay these loans. So we need to deal with this issue without saying that the chronology of promises when the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway is going to be built is really long. I wish now that we're taking this loan, I say, and when we have a financial structure defined somewhere for the realisation of this project, we could round up a period when this highway is really going to end. I think it is very important, above all for the citizens of western Serbia, and then certainly for all the citizens of our country. I think it is very important to remind our citizens that, and you certainly remember when the final contract was signed for building this Belgrade-Pozega highway and when the company was chosen, in fact two companies to work this highway. I believe that after 2008, if this contract hadn't been cancelled, that we would have that highway now and that I would be going home every day on the highway, not like this, and that everything would be much safer. Because, as you mentioned earlier, over 18,000 people in the last few years have been injured at the Ibaric Master's Office. I really believe that this highway would be finished, but it remains a step of taste in the mouth and unfortunately we haven't finished it anyway, and so now we have to get a lot more and much faster. I also know that the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction has taken the view that the road E763 within which this section of Obrenovac-Lig is headed through Obrenovac-Surcin. So, take the left bank of Sava. I would like to ask a question, based on certain indicators that I received from the Serbian Road Society – did experts do a technical, economic analysis together with bone benefit analysis? Because here I have, and I believe that you are certainly familiar with the Serbian Road Society's letter, which says, for example, what is the advantage of that variant that goes to Obrenovac-Osrežnica, therefore, to the right bank of Sava. I'd like to read a few of those details. The first and basic is that the lower costs would be 26%, so that the lower costs of construction of the highway alone would be about 29m euros, and I say to the experts from the Road Society, they did a technical and economic analysis with bone benefit analysis, I read it to you on that basis. Also, it would allow a shorter path than 9.5 km by over 60% of the vehicle. It would also achieve lower highway maintenance costs in the 30-year period for more than 10m euros. In the event of toll collection, the return period of invested capital is shorter by eight to ten years. As for indirect effects, for example, a further skating process would be stopped, allowing security and rehabilitation of over 500 endangered objects, as well as getting about 200 ha of stable ground for further construction use, on this right bank of Sava. Conditions are being created for definitely bringing into the quality exploitation status of the stock of the M19 Umka-Obrenovac road. It removes the danger of a slide breaking the Sava River and causing a flood of huge proportions, so that the town of Obrenovac is likely to be threatened. It doesn't destroy itself for all time over 120 ha of agricultural land. Also, I know that only the ministry has already responded to this memo and that it has taken a certain position, that based on the World Bank software it is determined that entry into Belgrade, that it is not going to this side as I have said, through the Tribute, but that it is going to Surcin, but I think it would be much better if that entry was much closer to Belgrade than this way. Certainly when we are at this point, for the next infrastructure projects we should certainly consider these possibilities of further concessions, i.e. public-private partnerships. I want to know what your position, the Ministry of Construction, is, I thought the Ministry of Finance, since I expected Mr. Krstic here today, but certainly the Ministry of Construction, to be working through public, private partnerships infrastructure projects. I think it's good models, but first of all, before construction, you have to do a quality economic and financial analysis, to do an analysis of the economic efficiency of the project itself, to get value data. It is certainly very important to share the risk between the two sides, when one project is done through a public private partnership model. It must certainly be taken into account for the social effects, to carry out a budget assessment of that capital project or any other matter, to carry out a proper analysis of all the elements we have. Without that, we cannot enter the procedure of any concession, any public private partnership. I'd like you to explain to me how this concession will be done for this first and this last part of the highway to Požega. So we don't know under what conditions that concession was taken. In addition to the fact that this highway means exclusively for Western Serbia, therefore infrastructureally, it means primarily for the development of different economic branches. You know that in that area there's Zlatar, and Zlatibor, Preboj, the Precipice live primarily in this moment of tourism, living off agriculture. Other industries are slightly less represented. I really think that at this point infrastructure first, and then promotion and marketing are important for the development of tourism. Without this highway and without the airport, we in the western part of Serbia can do nothing. Also two related things, besides, for example. The highway contributes certainly to the development of tourism, and thus improving investment in tourism, the new development of the construction industry, will hardly be able to achieve this now that we are increasing VAT on hotel accommodation services from 8% to 20%, and these are huge taxes that do not exist anywhere in the area, and we will simply be able to move all these capital investments into tourism, into neighbouring countries, so I connect it, of course, with the construction operation, with the construction industry and the use of our construction companies and their investments, as well as with infrastructure, because if we do not connect these two things, tourism and this infrastructure, we will simply have no one to make a highway or anything else. It is important to know that tourism has grown without any particular effort, pain and effort, it has grown, growth has increased by 12% in the past year, while other industries are failing. It must also be taken care of. He came from seventh place in the world in third place for the participation of GDP, and we so easily give up that tourism, by raising taxes, and above all, I say, lack of infrastructure. Certainly with the development of tourism, we could improve various other industries, including trade, transport, traffic, hospitality, and certainly not talk about the impact on the development of the construction industry. I think everything we do must be done in a certain direction, direction, and we need to know where we're going and cover more economic branches, but for everything it is, infrastructure. What I would like to point out is that without the start of the domestic construction industry, we certainly have no salvation, and I think we have to pay attention to that, and I also noticed in the budget that capital expenditure for investments is higher than in 2013 from 33 to 52 billion dinars, but I also noticed that in 2013 only 17 percent of these investments, investment funds, were used in the first half of the year. It's probably happening as long as it's seen and waiting to see if all the funds that exist in the salary and pension budget, and other donations and current spending, will be used and will be sufficient, and only then are these investment funds generally used. I think it's important to say that this year's budget has been defined by this very 10 percent, which is necessary for the state to invest, but I would also like to ask you a question, since I read somewhere that this 10 percent, or 3 billion dinars in the budget that are defined by your ministry, are going to be used to pay legal financial and technical, seems like a consultant for the realization of this loan, so I'm wondering whether it's true or will be used for some other things. I wonder when the construction of this section of the highway Obrenovac – Ljig will begin, because I read somewhere that you said it would be in late December, in early December, which would be extremely good, but of course I wonder if we can do it without the advance payment, so that the funds are planned for 2014, whether we can start to work or still have to wait for the start of 2014 when we pay the funds, that that is when it starts to work. I think that citizens of Serbia should know that the state of Serbia owes more and more each year, so in 2013, we put about 90 billion dinars in the budget, and in this year, 114 billion dinars and should be known, that is, for interest. As far as the 2013 debt itself was concerned, there were 630 billion, and now 662 billion for 2014 as planned. I know there's a lot of credits that aren't used, and we've already started paying for the penalty. There's some railroad loans for the clinical center, and I'm wondering why we don't use those loans. I believe that the answer will be because we don't have a project, but you certainly need to know that projects can be ordered, you need to think ahead, you need to make plans and I think that these projects should be done as soon as possible and we need to solve property-legal relations, we need to issue permits and that way with these projects to be prepared tomorrow when we have some kind of agreement, that we can react very quickly. Also, I would just like to point out that the immeasurable importance of the E 763 road for all Serbia, especially for Western Serbia, and that perhaps once again I should mention that I should also point out my opinion and my commitment to the DSS group that this highway from Požega should go through Zlatibor towards Novi Varosha, Priboj and Prepolje, because it is extremely important. First, it's economically justified to go to that end. Citizens of this region, New Varoshi, Preboa and Prepolje will simply come to life. If that's not the case, it'll be a total waste for all of these municipalities. Also, if it goes to this variant via the Cave, it will likely disrupt the coal mine “Stavalj” which will be a big problem, because a lot of citizens work right in that area, in that mine, and also maintaining the road over the cave in winter will not be very high-quality because of very low temperatures. Also, the route through Zlatibor is very easy and fast to create parts of the highway that would go towards Sjenica and Ivanjica, because it would be much faster in that case, without talking when it starts from Požega towards Užica and Zlatibor, it goes towards Republika Srpska and this planned highway that goes through Kreman to Visegrad, which I think is an extremely important and much closer version of the merger with Republika Srpska, which is also one of the priorities of our country. Certainly, the mere survival of the highway towards western Serbia, it is the only survival, nothing else for all citizens of western Serbia, and I hope that for this government, as it was for the previous one, the highway "Serbia in Cačka" will not end but a little further west.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27244	Minister Ilic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27245	The MP has asked a number of questions that are very important, and I would take the opportunity to answer some of them, to explain some things, but one of the key questions is how the artist was chosen. We said that we applied for a Chinese loan that is currently the most favourable in the world and that in an interstate agreement it was agreed that Chinese companies report to that tender that was called. We've collected offers. Four companies reported and a convincingly best offer was made by the company selected. I can say that between the first and fourth was the price difference of around 100m euros. So, convincingly the cheapest one was this bidder that was chosen. The second story is how to go in a concession. We've called a tender. But under the concession law, the government makes a decision on the concession, the concession enters parliament, is approved, and then a concession act is made that the government has to adopt again. According to our laws, the concession act cannot make either a domestic company or one who has won a concession, but must be a neutral firm in an international tender that is chosen to make concessions. It is an independent body that appears and the job has been given to a foreign company that has made a concession act adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia as a proposal and it has passed. Now, where did the 90 million in the budget come from? It's for the concession. Concesion contracts, which are made and concluded, can't build a domestic company. No bank will accept it if we do it ourselves, but it has to work for a company that's completely independent, usually it's a World Bank or someone else, sign up for an international tender and get that job. It costs about that much. It's for the concession, that part of the funds, not the credit line. Do you understand? It's according to the concession law. What's in the concession? The state can give guarantees, if traffic cuts drastically, or if there are any abnormal situations, natural disasters, don't give God, war conditions, bombings, like we had, someone has to take responsibility, because then concession contracts can't be respected. We give a guarantee built part of the highway, since we don't have the means. However, a concession company is formed by the state, which issues the concession, and by a concession firm. This entity shall, every month, collect toll, the number of vehicles and everything else; it shall settle the obligations of the credit line spent on concession, interest; payments shall be made to maintain the highway during that period and the rest of the difference shall be placed where the undertaking has agreed and where the position of the State is. He can return to the state, he can service the credit lines, and he can accept the construction of a new highway from that profit that's coming true. For example, in a study done, an average of traffic, expected, is taken according to current traffic on the Ibar Master's Office. So when the bridge was built, MP Mrkonjic knows it well, the "Gazela" project was that it would have a daily traffic of 20,000 cars, and so the concept was made and the bridge was done. Now that traffic is 160,000 cars a day. So here, too, traffic can be enormously increased, the entire Southeast Europe pulls back, but the concession company regulates it. The bigger traffic, the smaller the number of years, the lower the toll or invest in some new projects that will work. The joint concession firm also depends on the government's position that will then be in Serbia. It's about concessions. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia always decides through the concession company how it will place funds and monitor the parameters as they behave in this regard. Four companies appeared at the concession and is now in the selection phase of the most favourable and, of course, selecting the one who will make concessions contracts. A legal adviser is elected who makes a proposal for a contract for the government and for a concessionary who must agree. It's usually the World Bank, I repeat. The contract is done, proposed and selected by a legal adviser, an economic adviser and a technical adviser who decides on the concession itself. The route to Požega is defined and it is projected. There were two studies. One is through Zlatibor, and one is through the Cave and Ivanjica. Both studies have been given to the Commission which makes a decision which is more appropriate to the variant. The variant over Duga Poljana and Ivanjica is cheaper, 600 million and 40km shorter. This second variant is more expensive because it has to be tunnelized through the national park, protected zones, Zlatar, Zlatibor, etc. And that's why it's more expensive. It is now in the government, of course, to decide which version of Serbia wants. As far as the highway to Republika Srpska is concerned, it is defined. The first stage, i.e. the turn for Visegrad, is done by Zlatibor, and that goes 100% along this highway. So, Užice, the turn for Visegrad on Zlatibor, the first stage ends after Požega. So that's where 100% of the highway comes in. He later continued in the second phase towards Visegrad, Republika Srpska. Will there be side-tips, such as this side-tip for Zlatibor and down for Prepolje and Nova Varoš, from the alien variant, or will it be vice versa? That will be decided because this phase has not been designed. General projects and one and other variants have been arranged. However, you were now talking about the left and right coast of Sava. Is the highway going to the right bank? While I was a minister in the past term, we adopted the variant of the right bank of Sava. We designed it, adopted it and in parliament went through all the procedures, and the city of Belgrade adopted it as a final variant. However, the previous government and ministers found that this was not a good variant, as the deep-slide slope is the largest rink, currently, in Europe, there is no bigger one and it is risky for the highway to pass through the big rink. Since it is an international corridor, it was an emergency not to drag the international corridor into Belgrade via the Fair and this variant, which has now been done by the city of Belgrade, the bridge on Ada, but to tour the international corridor completely Belgrade and to go to the Surcin variant. The variant was adopted in a spatial plan, changes were made, procedures for parliament and the city of Belgrade passed and moved to the left bank of Sava, as more stable, more significant. By bringing traffic to the current Chinese bridge, which is being done, it was believed to be a better variant, faster and that it was more important because of international traffic to get out of the city, not to enter the city's core and to come very quickly to the Dobanovočka loop, to separate traffic to the Batajnic loop and to go to Banat over the Chinese bridge and to the Temisvar, which may be justified. Now the variant has been accepted, while internally removing traffic from Obrenovac and from these two strips made partially towards Obrenovac can be entered into Belgrade and on the defence side, which is heading towards Banov Brdo, this part of the old Belgrade, etc. That's defined. Belgrade must also solve Serbia's deep ice rink, and because of Umka and for what you said, the whole of Umka is slipping into the Sava. Sava is 150 metres wide before Umka, after Umka 450 meters, and on Umca only 140 meters. Every year a meter slides and a metre of doasphalts. When you go down to the edge of Sava and look at it, over six meters is currently asphalt thick. The rink's working intensively. There's a possibility that because of the great rain, it's slipping and that it's blocking Sava, which would be disastrous for the country. I recently warned the government to enter the skating rescue project at any cost and to extend Sava to that part, mostly towards the Srem site and to simply manage, because because of the glider that appeared, there Sava dug in now at 20 meters, on average the depths are out of it up to eight meters. So, it's not good and the intensive slide is working. You have to get into that ice rink, no matter what the highway is, it's gone. Now there's an accident that on the right bank was done all this stuff that was done on Adi, made loops, done all that, and it cost a lot. Now it's all done with Baric again. That's not what I was involved in. It's a spatial plan changed, the city of Belgrade changed, adopted, and it's definitely a point. So all this stuff that's done on Ada parallel, just without that saw, is done at Baric, the same loop that's done on this side, is done on the other side of Sava completely, identically and very expensively. That's why this stock is the most expensive part of the Sava Bridge and the Surcinian loop that develops traffic towards Dobanovci, Batajnica and the Chinese Bridge. That's an explanation for this. You've talked about other things, about tourism, it'll increase tourism. As far as the cab is concerned, it hasn't been defined yet, there's funding, you have to see with them what we're losing. One thing is very important. It is an expensive project, it is a government task, but the study has shown that this is profitable to pay for itself, because it's a big traffic trip. Serbia should step out of political investment and enter profitable investments. Any investment that finances itself and makes a profit is justified, and any investment that has to be paid later or from the budget to be added and maintained is not profitable and should be avoided. We are now in crisis and we should support only profitable investments and investments employed by Serbian citizens, which is also evident in this case through a study done. Of course, the finance minister was not in favour of borrowing another loan for the Moravia Corridor, but approved that concessiono could be built as much as we wanted. Is that just financing yourself? But we can't credit anymore, because we got a World Bank warning that we can borrow so much and so much money and we're right on that quota in this budget that's scheduled for next year. So, we didn't cross a single dinar beyond what was agreed upon. That's why these investments have been stopped so far. However, we are doing the possibility of a concession, and very soon we will come to these analyses of how the concession is done, because the position of this government is not to cross the line of duty that has been defined. We've come up with that number that's scheduled and where we can put ourselves in charge so we don't get in trouble. We're right now under that limit that's allowed and we can't move on, no matter what credit is favourable, but we can't move on. We'll continue it some other way. I hope you'll be informed of this very soon. Of course, there's a story about why loans are there. I can't issue a permit if no one asked. I can't issue a permit unless you've created a project. Many ask me – why don't you do the project Požega-Boljari, so that in time, because there are interests to be done too? Do you know how much the project Požega-Boljari cost when we collected the offers? The project alone costs 40m euros, interrogations, rigs, everything to do, airplanes and everything else. We've completed project documentation for the Moravia Corridor these days, but these are huge figures. If the budget does not provide for funding for projects, we cannot find anyone today to do projects for free, but everyone is asking for money to be paid, in tenders that are being disbursed, we have to predict the funds. However, I can't explain it here in parliament right now, but some MPs know it, we all followed it, I can't understand that some previous periods have been, that someone took a loan without permission, without a project documentation and without anything. I don't get it. But unfortunately, that's how it happened. In some previous period, some people from the authority worked hard at some banks, we got a credit line, and we didn't have a study, we didn't have a project documentation, we didn't have anything. Now we're serving the loan and we're waiting for the paperwork to be made. But that was at some point I can't explain how it's possible to get into a bank, get a loan without any paper, on an honorable word, pull a credit line and then say – we don't have the money to design. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and I were ministers in the government, but if you don't give us the money for the projects, we can't project. No one's going to project us for nothing. Everyone says: First you pay, then we do. There's no review committees, there's nothing if there's no money. So, how much money, how many projects. I hope it'll be a better situation and it'll get better. I repeat, I am pleased, in this year which has not yet been completed, I personally signed over three billion euros in projects currently being implemented and which are 100% covered in various ways and investments will all start to work. Of course, part of the projects that can be done quickly are expected. But I appeal to all those who are waiting for these projects to come forward, to speed up the project documentation process, because if you're not looking, no one will bring you the project unless you're looking for it. Believe me, there are credit lines that I have not yet received a request to issue a permit or to do a project. I can't work for you if you're not looking. You're looking, so we'll get involved in the business. That's it. I think I've answered all the key questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27246	The word has the People's MP Bojana Bozanic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27247	I thank the Minister. He gave answers to most of the questions. It is indisputable that this highway is extremely significant. It'll be a blood vessel for western Serbia. I just want to remind you once again that you are not leaving those people out there in Novi Varosha, Priboj, Prepolje, in that part of Serbia, out of the way. It will indeed mean the total eviction of those parts. The population's dropping anyway. We were talking about it yesterday. Please reconsider, if it costs that much to go over the Cave, it's probably a project via Zlatibor, on the New Varosh, hopefully cheaper, so you can also see it. As for the projects, of course, I didn't think that you should do all that, but I'm saying about these infrastructure projects, big, capital, the whole government and the ministry have to agree and work on the project documentation as soon as possible and then solving property-legal relations afterwards and, of course, issuing permits. What you said about the left and right bank of Sava, so I think the point is just to get rid of it that way by getting rid of it on the highway. It seems to me that, here you are, as you said, you've actually advocated that course. I think the first route is that on the right bank of the Danube, that this route that also went first on this highway across Zlatibor, so that one compact continent was the path that the profession defined, and now this path along the left bank of Sava and the path on the Cave is the path defined by politics. You may not be able to influence that much, but in any case it's politics and I think it's very bad and it should be done in a slightly different way anyway. Once again, I urge that we all make sure that the Serbian construction operation is included in these large infrastructure projects for which the money is taken from the credit lines. Let me ask a specific question - are we going all the way to give toll to a concessionary who will be awarded part of Preljina-Požega and Surčin-Obrenovac? So, are we going to let them charge the toll all the way around, or are we just going to put them in those two parts?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27248	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27249	The proposal for a concession act done by an international firm that did so has been proposed to be given on the whole to pay off the highway faster and to have the rest so that it can be introduced into new financing. If we give one other part, the smaller part, then it lasts longer, the larger number of years, and then the state has to guarantee by budget if it's on the edge. If it's more, then it'll stay and can concession the company to take over the credit lines that are if the traffic makes it possible. So it depends on how much the highway will pull the traffic, how much the government will bring toll and, of course, it can have the rest to take over the obligation and service the loan, which would be perfectly normal. You know that credit lines for highways in Europe are made out of excise fuel. But with us, it's a big problem. Our gas excises go to state officials' salaries, pensions, and everything else, and we don't have that option. Here, the Germans, for example, and the Italians, all stand out over 56% of the excise on fuel to build highways. The more you make roads, the more you drive and the more fuel you waste. But we can't do that. Our economy budget, which doesn't work enough, doesn't make it possible and we don't have those fuel excise revenues, which should be intended exclusively for the construction of new roads and road infrastructures. Since the state cannot budget any guarantees from the budget for such expensive infrastructure facilities, we have to invest something. That's why it's proposed that part of the highway be built to patch up and make some difference, of course, and the rest that can be directed budgetally. That, I repeat, is done by an international institution usually. I hope this time the job gets the World Bank and they make a concrete proposal. Banks always take a reserve, so that by concession the company can have a remainder that can be placed where the state decides, or where the government has an interest. But you know that banks always like to have a double reserve, rather than get stuck, so they can't service credit and get into a situation where we can't settle credit obligations. Therefore, it depends on the concession contract being made. I repeat, many thought and the correct attitude is that concessions are being built by large infrastructure facilities because there are no malversions. The concession company tomorrow decides with the help of the government on every penny that is charged and places it where it considers best. So we'll see. As far as these two variants are concerned, we'll invite all the mayors. It won't be a political decision, it'll be an expert decision. We also invited the Academy of Sciences and the institutes to analyse these two variants. We made a team. The government has appointed one of the biggest experts to choose a variant. Now you asked if the Government asked the left and right of the coast for the opinion of certain institutions. It is true, an institution was appointed in a tender that was called and a new-Sad college was chosen to make the most favourable offer and it proved that this variant of the left bank is sustainable for now, with the right hand side of the smaller capacity, and that the international corridor is officially going to the left bank. They supported this with a number of arguments, evidence, etc., that by not directly entering Belgrade, it passes to Banat across the Chinese bridge, to go directly to the Batajnica loop, Dobanovica loop and to Zagreb, without any contact with the City of Belgrade, that traffic is not being dragged into the city's core, but to visit Belgrade. Of course, there will be entrances elsewhere. There, there are additional questions. President: thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27250	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we have before us a bill on the confirmation of the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the E763 Motorway Construction Project, i.e. for one part of the future Horgos-Požeg highway, i.e. part of the Obrenovac-Ljig highway. The subject of this international contract is a loan which our country will receive as a borrower from the Chinese Export-Import Bank of 301,000,000 dollars, which will be spent on financing the construction of the mentioned section of the highway. This is not the first case that Chinese capital in this size enters our economy, given that credit lines from this country are already being financed by the construction of the Zemun-Borch Bridge, and that the Chinese state has already helped us both in the recent period and in the 1990s. Since China's economy is in major economic expansion, which has been unprecedented over the past 30 years, then it is no wonder that their determination to break through to a greater extent in markets and in economies that are more geographically distant from their immediate environment. Given the friendly, political and business ties between the two countries, it is quite logical that Serbia is the first and the right place for such investments, which we hope will be for some other capital infrastructure projects in the future. On the other hand, our economy will certainly welcome this inflow of fresh capital in the construction of infrastructure facilities, so before it comes on relatively favourable terms. The basis for this loan agreement is a contract with the Chinese corporation to build this section of the highway. On the highway itself, the matter of justification and the way and dynamics of its construction in the previous decade, a lot of polemics have been conducted in which I would not linger, as it is clear to every reasonable man that the construction of this highway is a first-class, state and national task. We are aware that it would be best if there were opportunities for such projects to be financed directly by the state or domestic economy, but we all know in what state they are currently in, and the working time and loans for the economic renaissance have long passed, so unfortunately, this foreign borrowing option is being imposed as the only real one. The terms under which the loan is granted are favourable. The interest on this loan is 2.5% a year, which is an interest rate lower than some of the loans we previously raised and where it ranged between 3% and 4% on an annual basis. The loan will be paid over a period of 15 years, which will start to run after a five-year grace period. The period of maturity of certain wars will be half-year, and our side will eventually be able to use the benefits of the provisions to pay off the debt at a more favourable rate than 1%. Perhaps someone will find out who will object to why the contract includes clauses that commit to the supply of goods and services from China, but we must be aware that on the one hand there must be some compensation in the contract for the already mentioned favourable conditions of credit payments, and on the other hand, the Chinese business group that has been entrusted with construction in the world known for its successful construction ventures that, for example, has built a maritime bridge that has about as long as this share of the future highway and we hope that such efficiency will show with us. The second proposal to confirm the international agreement that lies ahead is to avoid double taxation in relation to income taxes with the Kingdom of Morocco. In one of the previous sessions, we have already ratified a number of agreements on economic co-operation with this country and in principle I believe that such agreements are always welcome because they create opportunities to improve mutual co-operation to mutual satisfaction. Dear People's MPs, it is clear that these two laws are another useful contribution to our economy and economy, and therefore the PUPS parliamentary group, or the United Pensioners of Serbia, will support this legislative proposal in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27251	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27252	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first agree with this, at least once a sentence, fellow Milosevic, of course it is not strange that there is a clause in the contract that obliges us to obtain goods from the Chinese side, and of course it is a compensation for some of the other benefits that we have received in other elements of the contract. It's a good thing you said that because at the very beginning of this debate there were amazing formulas that this was the most favourable loan almost in the history of mankind, that it was a miracle how Serbia looked at God and how we managed to get this loan the best of all time. It's a very worrying practice in this House. When you, Mr. Ilic, speak of how much we are at the limit of duty, that you have very serious restrictions not only from international institutions, but also from the Minister of Finance himself in this government, so restrictions on new responsibilities, we have come to this limit of duty, precisely by almost every loan that this country has taken over the past 10 years, represented here as the most useful, best of all time, the most efficient, how Serbia will after that come to light. I don't argue that this loan is good and favourable in many of its aspects. On the other hand, I think that when a parliamentary debate is being held to confirm that a loan is being taken, the essence of this debate should be the analysis of the financial and economic effects and the conditions of the loan. We somehow slip into whether it's important to build a path, whether it's important to build a infrastructure and then get away from what's really the essence of these things. Today we need to discuss whether this loan is effective enough, whether for the price we pay, or which we will pay over the next 20 years, we are getting some effective good, or some benefit for the citizens of Serbia, the benefit for certain parts of Serbia, the financial benefit of exploiting that road, effective maintenance. So, the solution to all those problems that we have today in the travel economy and in all segments of public good governance, so to speak. You, Mr. Ilic, pointed out correctly at the outset, that programme that has the Chinese government, which is not for any altruistic but for commercial-economic and political reasons, decided to place about $10 billion in this part of Europe, and you said that the funds that are being placed, that they are being placed under very favourable conditions. I have a very specific question for you. By decision of the Chinese State, this loan fund was not only created for lending or investing in road infrastructure, but also for other types of infrastructure, such as energy infrastructure. Since this loan is so favourable, and we have submitted an initiative to the Chinese side to finance this investment with this loan, so part of the highway, were there any talks, was there an initiative from either the Serbian or Chinese sides to, say, take the funds from this programme or use it to finance the construction of the South Stream project through Serbia? Or did we have to take that loan from the Russian side we're already in the business with? Since we are hearing these days that this loan, which is likely to be with an interest rate of between 4.25 and 4.5% for the construction of South Stream, which we will pay who knows how much from the fees we would normally have on the transit of gas and who knows how to pay, could we instead take such a favourable loan from China for that investment, or the obligation of Serbia? That's a very important question. If such initiatives were on our side and Chinese, what was the epilogue? Did the Russian partner, for example, have any objections to that, did he insist that we be in charge of them, etc? It seems to me that it would be better to finance this project at an interest rate of 2.5% or a similar interest rate than at an interest rate of 4.5% with a very problematic relationship to take credit from whoever your partner is in this business and not only is he a partner but he is the majority owner of everything in this business. In the end, you will be the gas supplier who was going to go through that pipeline and lead this country into a very serious problem. It's very important, Mr. Ilic, that when we talk about both loans and investments there's some kind of diversification, that we don't keep all the eggs in the same basket, as you usually say. This is always very important for the country, in energy infrastructure, large credit operations especially. I'm sure you understand that. As for some of the elements of this contract itself, it is already said that the borrower, the Republic of Serbia, will use the total loan funds exclusively to pay about 90% of the value of the commercial contract and that the goods of technology and services supplied from these funds will be purchased mainly from China. It should then be fair to the citizens and say that this means that practically for all goods and services all contracts with the Chinese side or Chinese companies will be concluded which, of course, given the specificities of this job, will then be concluded and taken by some types of subcontractor or domestic worker, domestic labour force. That's what happens in other similar jobs we have here. So the effects of this loan of this job should be observed that way. So a significant part of the loan will practically return to the borrower on this line. It's not something China exclusively does, it's what all other creditors do, especially when it's credited to a bilateral interstate agreement. There's an even worse situation in this project that I just mentioned, let's say around South Stream where the other side is given an even whole series of guarantees that aren't here. An additional question that needs to be opened and I really think it's a key rapper when we analyze whether any credit is good is going to be effectively used? That's much more important than the rate of interest, than the grace period. We don't have the money, so every six months or a year, the grace period that we can get is significant. You don't have to be overjoyed for those grace periods either. The commitments you mention in the budget for this year, for next year, also spoke of by my colleague Bozanic, are also due to some loans announced as ultra-friendly with a very long grace period. Those two, three, five years have gone by, and now we're getting into a situation where we have to get those loans back. That's how we'll get there in five years and in this situation. You know what the basic criterion is, if we can make a few years of economic growth that will allow us to service this interest we took, it's good. If we fail, our debts will increase. I don't need to know what kind of financial expert to understand that elemental rule. Our experiences so far are not good, Mr. Ilic. Every time you come to parliament, you talk about how inefficient construction is, how much trouble we have with preparation both physically and legally and in any other, infrastructure sense. In the first half hour or hour of this debate, you spoke to some colleagues and colleagues about several problems you have, from the track, through some field problems, relief, long-term non-maintainment, etc. And you'll have that in every segment of every investment that's done with us. The only thing that matters is that there's order. The only thing that matters is that there's order. I don't think it's serious that we're talking about 300 million dollars of credit that we're taking, and that everyone else is more serious than us, Mr. Ilic, that the Chinese side is being protected, that these additions, or contributions to this contract, are being made this seriously, and that we ourselves don't have an elemental answer to what we want, where will these roads end, what are they serving, what is the state's policy in terms of tourism policy, or the development of tourism, tax policy, etc? The Chinese thing has nothing to do with anyone giving us credit or real investment. Those with such serious contracts protect. Either they keep a guarantee to themselves that they will be subject to those conditions that were in force at the time of the conclusion of the contract, or they will be provided through contracts with generous compensations on the other side. The question for us is, what are we doing in this? Perhaps today is a chance to answer the question of how Mr. Ilic happened and has it ever happened in another situation in this country for anything else, to give someone a location permit in one day, and a building permit the next day? I won't ask you here under the oath of the minister to confirm that these two acts have been fulfilled by all the laws and other acts required terms, but I think it's clear to everyone that there's a lot of doubt that they're not. I don't know about any other business in Serbia where such a dynamic of issuing the necessary documents, where it coincides with the terrible pressure that this country is exposed to. Terrible pressure at all levels. What I am grateful for, if so, is that the Government of the People's Republic of China is, in that sense, a more decent lender, or a more decent investor, so it will never allow itself the kind of brutal and illicit pressure that some other, friends or alleged friends of this country, among other things, who have received within two days a local and construction permit for the South Stream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27253	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27254	Here, I'd be happy to answer some of the questions you asked. I reiterated that the position of this government is a profitable investment, an investment that makes profit, which will sustain itself, and no investment will pass that cannot repay itself, and that it has been a practice for the last 20, 30 years, we would not have come into the situation in which we are today. Investments have been made that have nothing to do with them. Some are not even released, and hundreds of millions have been spent and we are now serving loans, etc. But these were political investments, so now I don't list the interests of certain political groups that have received certain loans, certain investments to get some electoral body in some environment, so we're going to make something out there that's never going to work. If I were to tell you now as a resolute minister to go to Bor and see the biggest investment that was in Serbia at the time, to see it fail, it's falling apart on buildings that are millions of values, ended 90% and abandoned. Let me not tell you now about spas, hotels, motels, investments, cableways, etc., standing in the weeds. And it was some kind of policy. I wasn't involved in it, but we're all paying for it now. Someone wanted to build a factory here and here, so let's go down. Last time I asked you in parliament -- is it okay to close down a white-tech factory in Cačka, which was a symbol of this country, which is a brand, and make a new one elsewhere and pay at the workplace of 10,000 euros? It's not. Is that right? But it all went through here in parliament in some way. That's not what I was involved in. Now, these investments are profitable. That's what the studies show. So, the highway, there are ministers here who know it well, formerly, who have traffic over 10,000 cars a day is profitable. Everything below 10,000 is unprofitable. There's a rule somewhere where they won't be won, where they'll have to add funds budgetally, but this is an investment that covers it. Is the Chinese equipment coming in? Of course he'll come in. We released her from customs and VAT. The equipment to be used in the construction of the highway and the company that's driving her to work, when she's done, goes out with her or has to stay to pay for her obligations if she wants to keep her in this country. As long as the job goes on, the equipment can be there. Get the job done and she's coming out. Of course we've been looking at this Chinese equipment that's much cheaper than any other equipment in Europe that's produced. Take one of the tunnel drill machines. It's 40 percent cheaper than buying it in Germany or Italy or any other country. We don't make them. You were talking about South Stream. The pipe laying equipment, if you've read and followed how it's done, suddenly 600 meters of pipe must go down into a trench that's 4 meters deep and 6 meters wide. It's such a technology that you suddenly have to lift and drop 600 meters. We don't have the equipment to lower any feet. We have to import from whoever has the equipment or get the job of the one who's technically equipped for such a job. We don't have any welds in the state that can digest the pipes of those profiles and have an atom for that welding because we've never done it. But you forgot one thing, that from the transit of South Tak, central master's water, we'll get about 200 million euros a year somewhere. We'll make some money. Imagine that from the main water of a single channel to Macedonia, one will go to Corridor 11 towards Montenegro, Western Serbia and can cross to Italy, and one will go to Republika Srpska and Croatia. We will be networked with three additional mini corridors that will go through Serbia on our most likely road corridors, which is logical, because it can be simultaneously built Corridor 11 towards Montenegro and installing pipelines because it is 30% more profitable than otherwise. Is the Chinese loan favourable? It can be used for gas. It's up to us. We got a quota of orientation credit from that subsidized Chinese government loan to Southeast Europe. Our negotiations with them were to show up with projects and we showed up with three projects back then. That's what we're ratifying now, Lig-Branovac. We showed up with a project of the Moravia Corridor and Ruma – Novi Sad. We applied for the funds. We didn't show up at the time because it wasn't ready with the South Stream, because there was no paperwork prepared to show up as interested in credit funds. We came up with three projects, and these three projects went into the review of the bank's board of directors. This first project that was ready with complete documentation and the rest went first. The rest remains in the negotiations. It tells if a location permit has been issued in one day, and the other one has been built. We can't issue two permits at the same time. That makes sense. It has to go locationally, so the number of locations is introduced into construction, the date of issue, etc. And he can't do the same day. But we knew it was a state-owned very important project and we'd been preparing the paperwork for months. We prepared everything, and we could have betrayed it when we broke out as fast as we could. It's a huge project. It worked 15 hours a day to finish. It wasn't anyone's pressure. No one pressured us. But if someone brings you an investment of a billion and 900 million euros, of course, that the state is interested in that investment, if we want to do it, to technically do it. It would be a shame to say – here, we haven't finished the documentation, we don't have, and it was fixed around the start date. Why? To track this pipeline that goes through Bulgaria, it must continue. We can't make a cut now and they can't wait two, three years. They'll go the other way and connect the other way. So if we're in the game, we have to track the dynamics of the whole pipeline that's going and we have to follow that highway pipeline within certain deadlines, to connect and connect. You asked -- why the Russian loan? It's not a Russian loan. Mr. Bajatovic explained yesterday, it is a loan involving the same French and German, Italians, English and all others from Western Europe who are interested. It's one team that was made, one credit line, to do one job, to get a pipeline to Western Europe on the other hand and to make that highway. You saw that part of the funds was given by Russia, and now it doesn't matter which bank was chosen. But the important thing is that shareholders are in the whole business, so more countries, not just Russia. It was also explained yesterday at a press conference, Mr. Bajatovic said they have the right percentages, as much as anyone participates, that it was an international institution designed to do a major project that is of interest not only to Serbia and Russia, but to the whole of Southeast and Western Europe. It expands the network and we get three gas plants in Serbia's territory. One of them works at Nis, one at Zemun, one of the most likely at Wrabi's. Therefore, it is very important for Serbia. We're going to hire a thousand and a few people who are going to be in a permanent working relationship, work on these projects, we're going to be energy producers, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27255	Thank you. The word has Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27256	It's always interesting for me to listen to these detailed analyses of Mr. Bajtovic, only, of course, he's an expert on large systems, but believe me, Mr. Ilic, there were other schools in this country, so people can still see where the elemental holes are in such explanations. It's not about who owns it, it's about how we got to it, that's how we get the money from that lender. That's my question. Have we tried somewhere else to find a financier under more favourable conditions? That's my question. I don't know why you're adding the same sentences at the end – but you know, we're getting three gas plants. And you and I both know that we're not getting anything, that someone's making investments from which they're going to make money, that's great, and that's perfectly legitimate, just to stop saying that we're getting something from someone. We're not getting anything. It's business relations. I agree with you that we should continue where the Bulgarians started or stopped, so I ask why all the elements of this job are not as Bulgarian as they are. But it's not right that I'm trying to discuss it with you. You didn't do it. I understand that you told me in Parliament that absolutely all the conditions that were necessary to issue these permits you're talking about were met. I'm glad it's the Ministry and everyone in charge worked so fast. I expect that this will work against all others who need that kind of permission, especially in large projects, Mr. Ilic. My question is, how did we come to borrow a loan from that financier? Today we're talking about a 2.5% loan, and this one's going to be almost double the interest. That's the key question. It's true that we're going to make a living on our taxes. Then why don't we take a second seat... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Well, from this money that we make from the fee that we pay back, or from some other money, we're tied up like this. You know why I ask, Mr. Ilic? That's the kind of job we've done with the mine. We'll never get out of the obligation to make the mining rent three, not seven percent, because that's what a minority-owned company decides about. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27257	Thank you. National MP Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27258	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency and the chairmanship, respected ministers and colleagues, will support both these documents, precisely because they represent the continuity of a serious project that has been under way for the fifth, sixth years. It is good that one government continues at least part of the work done by the previous government and it is good that such projects, such as large infrastructure projects, work on a continuous basis. So, both of these projects are serious projects and you've explained it well, I wouldn't talk about it. But to support you in another thing that's very important, I think a few colleagues have talked about it, and now my colleague Đuric is out. No government loans without privileged loans. That's what Mr. Ilic was saying. There are the lowest interest rates, but the condition is that the businesses of the countries that give these loans work, and that's nothing new. We had such a contract in 1992 for a master's line with the French, so the sanctions came and I didn't talk any further about it, that's what happened. Credits from two European banks, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank are a second issue. These are loans that are given and there are clear propositions and based on these propositions we can, based on the tenders of all the countries that want to participate, to choose, or to choose the performers. When it comes to state contracts, it's what's now about the Chinese treaty or what's happened with Azerbaijan, then we have to accept that those people are doing too. Of course, the matter of the assessment is the country and the government of the Republic of Serbia to which the project should be entered. I fully agree with Mr. Ilic and the Government, we have to go to such infrastructure projects and these kind of arrangements, so we can hire our own operation. I remind you, Corridor 10, we started and provided funds before we had solved some other things that Velya was also talking about, but we consciously entered into it, so that today we would come every month to open up one share. Now he had continuity and we know what we're doing. Where are our performers? That's another thing I also wanted to try to explain. When we entered Corridor 10, 2008, I believed that our businesses, because of them we did all that, knew and could work. Unfortunately, that wasn't true. We've already trained these companies today so they can compete. It was a good decision that the government, instead of "the Alps", which it won in the international tender of the Beška Bridge, would include our "Contogradation" which the job knows how to do. I would also suggest to the government that these other two shares or two projects that the Alpina was working on, one part around Dimitrovgrad, and the other is the Mijatovac Bridge down on the Corridor 10 railway master's station, that these two projects, also by emergency government decisions, be shared with our performers. Now it's an opportunity for our companies to work too. That's why it's good, of course, if the border Mr. Ilic spoke of, or perhaps more should be spoken of by the Prime Minister and Mr. Krstic, to our duty where we are not over-indebted, where these red lines are not, I am, unfortunately, not an expert on it. Therefore, support for such projects will always be given and we propose that these two laws be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27259	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Borislav Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27260	And before the deadline. I must say, honourable MPs, Madam Chairman, Minister Ilic, this is a good job for Serbia. China is the strategic partner of the Republic of Serbia and a friendly country if you will. Our co-operation in the economic and political sphere is increasingly important and has been developing for years. She's not the product of only one work, even these governments. I must say, by quoting from the material that we received, because of the public of Serbia, what it says here - 20 August 2009 the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Republic of Serbia signed an Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement in the area of infrastructure. On 26 April, before the 2012 elections, the government of China announced the creation of a $10 billion credit line to support joint projects, etc. On 13 May 2013, the Serbian government concluded a commercial contract for the construction of the E763 Obrenovac-Ljig highway, in the text of the commercial contract. This is because of the public and the citizens of Serbia, that they know what we're talking about and who took over from what point of time, without questioning the importance and usefulness of this job for the Republic of Serbia. I must say, in that sense, DS fully supports the realization of this project. But there's one thing that spoils a girl's happiness, which is with the DS that somehow we have to do for the public and for the future of this country to point out some of the negative things about the arrangement itself, not the essence of the arrangement, not the path that we support, whose construction we stand for, but how and how we have come to what we are now standing before the National Assembly. Namely, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, in local self-government if the responsible person makes an investment contract, and there is no budget-defined funds, these people go to jail. That's what happened in Leskovac with Mr. Kocic from DS. That's what happened to Mr. Krishan in Kovacica the other day. So they're going to jail. Our ministers in the government are not going to jail, they say – this is the business of the century. Why do I say that? The moment you come to this assembly, you know you're bringing us paper, and the moment you go into the whole business, you don't have budget-secured funds, which, among other things, violates the Budget Act. You're saying here that interest is 2%. I agree with you that it's low interest and that's good. However, for the sake of truth, some colleagues have already spoken, interest is 2.5%, plus 0.25% for management, plus 0.25% for possible undrawn funds. It's for the truth. So it's not exactly what you said in the fullest sense. Will you, Minister Ilicic, withdraw these funds in 30 days from the point of conclusion? I'm asking you about interest. So that's the first thing we need to hear from you clearly and unequivocally, that it will be feasible and that everything will be fine. In May 2013, you announced the start of construction for June 2013, and in June you moved that start of work to August, then to September. Two weeks ago, you said the works couldn't start this year because, I quote you -- in Serbia's budget, no funds were planned for an advance by a Chinese performer worth 10% of $334m, the value of the contract. It seems to me that in some sense in the budget terms you forgot about this project. I think you've confirmed that you've violated the Budget Law, as well as some other laws. Under this contract, the total value of works for the entire share under the current main project is 231,370,000 euros, i.e. Three hundred and a few million dollars. The contract with the Chinese contractor was signed on 13 May 2013, worth $333,747,000. On August 25th, therefore, this was in May, and in August, the government of the Republic of Serbia authorised Minister Ilic to sign a loan agreement. Throughout the material delivered to MPs, respected colleagues, the legislator of this law calls for a commercial contract between the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, your ministry, the "Corridor of Serbia" and the Chinese company "Cina Shandong International Economic" etc. In the explanation, the proponent calls for successful co-operation on the project between the construction of the Zemun-Borch bridge. So the questions are next. Why is the contract value greater than the value of the work on the main project for $33,545,000? On the basis of what document did you, Minister Ilic, sign a commercial contract with the Chinese company on May 13th? By which procedure was the contractor selected? That seems like a normal, logical and legitimate question. How was the construction contract signed without a previously signed financing contract? Since the promoter is calling for a commercial contract with the performer, how can MPs vote for this law when they do not know the terms of the commercial contract? What is the representation of domestic contractors, domestic materials and services? I think there's a colleague here a little while ago who's got all the doubts. The legislator, as it stands in the material, is the Ministry of Finance and Business, which does not exist, since these are now separate ministries. And you let it go like that. On several occasions, the task force for the construction of the Zemun-Borca Bridge informed the competent minister of the problems on the project, as well as of very poor communication with the Chinese performer. You know what this is about. Also, Minister Krstic has been notified by the Chinese Export-Import Bank that he is not ready for annexes of the financing contract for the Zemun-Borca bridge, without the consent of a Chinese contractor, although these are two completely separate contracts. So we're not against building this time. We find it useful for the Republic of Serbia. We started this project during the previous government. It seems to us that you don't know how to do this in the fullest sense and you don't know how to do it by law. Where did you see the arbitration in one contract between the two parties determining that it was the headquarters of arbitration in Beijing? Just tell us, we don't have anything against the Chinese side, but wasn't it more logical for arbitration to be conducted, say, in any country that's third in this agreement? Imagine, in this document, arbitration is being conducted in Beijing. Why not Belgrade? I really don't get it, and believe me, I've never seen this before. I may be a layman, I admit in one piece, but I didn't really see this anywhere. So these are legitimate questions. You entered one business without authority at that time. You entered this whole story, and you didn't make a clear structure. I've asked you very specific questions for these millions that are too high. You immediately said interest less than it is, which is the problem. I think, Minister, in this truly positive job for the Republic of Serbia needlessly, I don't know why, for reasons of intricacies, unpreparedness or something else, we have a situation like this that is very difficult to explain, which concerns the important elements of the implementation of this job. I really ask you to show for once that you sometimes know how to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27261	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27262	Sir, I may have made a lapus, it's 2.5%, it's really a lapus, but I apologize, you had it in the material, and I really don't know how it happened, but it doesn't matter. It's not a big mistake, you had it in the material. Then I fixed it, and everything's fine. What's the problem with the contract being signed commercially, etc? It is true that we maintain the continuity of the government in which you participated, your party. It is true, Mr. Borko Stefanovic, that we did this with the same technology as you did for Azerbaijan, so the contract failed, that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic knows, so we activated it with a lot of effort. And you made a deal without ratification. It's exactly the same technology, but that's what the bank asked for. You understand, you can't sign a commercial contract. Of course, it can simply not be accepted and annulled, etc., if it does not respond and if it does not go through a certain procedure until the end. But you understand, you made a contract, your party, which I later accepted and threw into life by the same technology. If I broke the law, you broke it too. Do you understand? It's government technology and government administrations. I'm not a lawyer, I don't do that. The contract is made by others and agreed on how. Of course, we have certain institutions that follow it. The same technology was for Azerbaijani credit. If I broke the law, you broke the law then. It's exactly the same technology in the whole system, which started in one chain, and you can't come now... Of course, in the end, it is always on every contract that has been done so far to ratify parliament. So it's parliament that says whether or not it can. If parliament says – it cannot, then – stop, stop, stop, and there is no further. That's the finale. After that, the work begins. Therefore, the same technology is respected and do not just criticize and speak various lies. If I started with what you signed, I listened to it yesterday in the government, people got baptized for what you signed on to Kosovo. I don't want to go into any details right now. But if I asked you if you'd broken the Constitution and the law and everything that exists, you'd open the polemics. I don't want to derail. There's a serious law here in front of the MPs. Not immediately on the knife, assault and criticism. We're in this story to support all of your projections the previous government has been doing. As for NIS and everything else, it's all together, I was in that government when we made that decision. Your party president, then president of Serbia, was with me together in Moscow with the president and prime minister of Russia. I signed the agreement for NIS, in the presence of President Tadic. So, don't put it all on the knife now. Some continuity of government must be maintained. What Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic says, it's a real story. He can't make a highway to one government, he needs maybe two, three governments. But, Mr. Stefanovic, the Azerbaijani loan that was concluded, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic knows everything about not talking any further, but what happened in the finish line? Everything's going well. The works go 150% above the dynamics that were achieved in that contract. As for the price difference, the project was made in 1996 or 1997. The price of steel on the world market has jumped 35% in the last two years, I know that by NIS when we were making an offer. It had to be installed. Now, on the pipes that are installed in the South Stream, that's the difference that's included in the difference between the price of steel on the world market. Of course, it had to be built in. You can't say that the price of steel has gone up and these are going to work for nothing because we didn't predict in the project, etc. I wouldn't want us to talk about these little things right now, but there's only one thing I want to say. We continue our continuity and I'm glad you started this project and that you were in favour of this project. I accepted your idea of the left bank of Sava, so I wouldn't go back three years so I could rewrite all the documents and go to the right bank of Sava. I also accepted the city of Belgrade, which changed the decision, although I was the minister of the second version and we brought all the papers for the second variant, but then we accepted your solution because experts said it was justified, that it would freeze for three years, etc. Three years means a lot to Serbia, and I think that's okay. It's no problem. Something you do, something we do, sometimes you, sometimes we all have to work for Serbia. Technology is the same, and we sign the contracts one way, as we've been doing for years, and I'll be glad this ends in time. Here, I invite you to come and let us open it together. Because that's Serbia's interest. I'd love for you to come on 24th and we'd all like to let go of that South Stream and start our work together. Not now, you or we. And you were into it, and I was, and we were all. Your president was with me in Moscow, standing behind my back when I was signing. That's good. Why are you criticizing now and saying it's wrong? It can't be wrong. It's good that the next president accepts it. Maybe the third one will open, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27263	He has the word Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27264	Thank you, Minister, for your response. Although, I have to admit, you haven't answered any of the essential questions. I must say, you've been talking about something that's not a topic at all. It doesn't offend me that you mention agreements because if you succeed in your archaeology to find a document that I signed, feel free to frame it. And the one I'm not, you're free to frame. Compared to this, yours is pure gold. Otherwise, no one's criticizing you or, as you say, attacking the knife. We immediately said, if you listened carefully, that this agreement is important for Serbia, that it is part of the continuity, it is absolutely undeniable that it is beneficial for the Republic of Serbia and that we have good relations with China, although your government has not appointed an ambassador for 11 months. Now he's setting up some young estranged advisors, but we don't have an ambassador to China for 11 months. You know how much it would make your job easier, among other things, and in this business. I must say that you are, and I thank you for admitting that this deal with Azerbaijan is good and that you support it and that it has been confirmed by experts, as you said, and that there is nothing to add. But I'm telling you about the contract with the performer, Minister. That's another thing. It's not the same thing. I'm asking you about the next one. When you say the price of steel has increased by 33%, there's a price difference. And when you say that same steel was collected for the bridge on Ada, it's a thief. How do you explain that to yourself? Can you explain that to yourself, not to me? So, how is it possible when on the same bridge steel on Adi collects it's a thief and yellow are thieves, and when you pick up for this, then it's people's business for decades. Please don't. We've known each other for a long time. By the way, I think other than the laps you've admitted, I think you've really been through your exposure and confirmation that there's a difference in credit for the performer and with the state of Azerbaijan confirmed everything we're saying. You've come out of the legal framework and the government's authority. You can't do that past ratification. You can't make a business arrangement without asking anyone alive and the government in advance empowers you. What tender? What deal? By what parts?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27265	Two minutes and thirty seconds used by Mr. Stefanovic. The word is Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27266	I don't want to take up much time, but since Minister Ilic mentioned me at least three times, I have to say, without wanting to be some credential here, and Azerbaijani loans and this Chinese is extraordinary loans and we need to use that. And the previous government has made a great effort to open Corridor 11, right through the Azerbaijani loan. I can't see, and I don't want to talk about the details that I know as well as the two of my predecessors who have spoken and broken down, that there's even room for any discussion on what this is or what it is. It doesn't matter. Business is going well. Credit's good. Our companies are involved, and that's important. Now from that experience, we can go with the Chinese, we can speed up project realization, and that's very important, and we have experience. Therefore, both loans are great and support for the people who brought these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27267	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27268	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today the citizens of Serbia are paying attention to this debate, expecting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to ratify this agreement in the voting day, and this Chinese loan is approved, so that there is no delay in work, so that the highway through the Shumadi is built within the planned deadline of 36 months as you, Mr. Ilic, in December of last year and promised. Also, I would like to express my satisfaction that Mr. Minister with the team of your experts from the Ministry for a very short time you have managed to do whatever it takes to get this extremely favourable loan from the Chinese Export – Import Bank. I would also like to express my view and the opinion that a very important infrastructure project such as the concession for the construction of the Horgos-Požega highway is also the last project to be ratified in this House, which has not been realised. It is invaluable to the citizens of Serbia for this reason. I am also pleased that within a relatively short time, you have managed to do whatever is necessary, of course by respecting everything that Minister Mrkonjic has done before, that the construction of this highway is going on at this pace, as it is now going on, expressing confidence that it will also be in the coming period. It's completely understandable that the Chinese state, Chinese companies, Chinese banks are interested in building this highway. The Chinese, through the construction of this highway, see the integration of the north and south, and because of Luke Bar, and it is also very important that large number of ports, i.e. the integration of Danube ports with the Adriatic Sea, will also take place and what will connect countries in the environment. It is very important that the state of Serbia through the construction of this highway, and as you yourself said at the Ships Airport, the Kargo Centre, and the pipeline will be intertwined with all infrastructure projects and thus through the construction of these infrastructure projects will become a very attractive place for future investment. Also, I want to say that the citizens of 14 Serbian cities, directly and all citizens of Serbia, but first of all 14 cities passing through this highway, the construction of this Corridor 11 is important not only for the economic recovery of the country, but it is also very important for the survival of all citizens in this area. How serious this project is and how challenging the citizens' attention can be seen by the fact that we have had the opportunity to support the precisely efforts you make, the whole government at all, that there is no delay in building this highway during this period of several months earlier. I believe that the unaccessible terrain is the fact that a lot of bridges will be built through this stock, and that there will be many shifts of regional roads, in no way slow this building down. On the contrary, through this loan, as you yourself said, more than two thousand people will be employed and Serbia will be a major construction site in this way at the beginning of next year. As regards the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax, it is very important that this contract is primarily due to the economic co-operation of both countries, and because the provision of Article 25 of this Treaty prescribes equal treatment for the citizens of both Contracting Parties. I think this contract will contribute even better to the economic co-operation of the two countries, and as my colleague Miroslav Markicevic, in the day for the vote, the NS parliamentary group will support both of these contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27269	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27270	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I would like to point out that we need to take down this familiarity about the particularly privileged position of the borrower in any loan contract concluded by the state of Serbia. When we look at this particular contract, we understand that the loaning party is primarily protected, so it is the lender, and Serbia is the borrower. The overall content of this contract is in fact aimed at ensuring the obligations of the Serbian state in terms of paying interest, costs, commissions, penals, so fines. So all that actually does is make a commitment to the borrower, and it's hard for us to find some clearer obligation and some clearer case that is overlooked by this contract to possibly fail to meet the contract by the lender. So, even when we talk about the position of the privileged buyer and specifically on this contract, it would be good to say that we're taking the loan. That this country is further in debt and burden and that this country has a really tense limit as far as the percentage of public debt is concerned. That's why we don't have to talk fairy tales about the world of finance and how much our friends love us, respect us, and here we are, giving us certain privileged loans. These loans are always commercial and are always in fact concluded to protect the interests of lenders first and foremost. That's generally the case. With all these loans that you now call profitable investments, because whether these investments eventually result in profits or not, Serbia is in debt. When you conclude this type of contract, it would be good to take care of the relationship of the borrower when it comes to the sovereignty of a country like Serbia, the sovereignty of the application of its laws, the arbitration of which is established in China, the laws applicable to this contract and similar contracts, and the laws which are the laws of the borrower. It's about Serbia taking one loan, and you say at some advantageous interest rate, and you advertise it as a huge proof of a kindness, a friendly relationship between the lender, and your resourcefulness of the conclusion of the contract. Only the interest rate is actually when you look slightly lower than the usual commercial interest, and all the other elements of the contract and how they represent a serious commercial interest of the lender. If we start at that rate, Đuric spoke about it, why in this case did you not consider the possibility that for this large investment construction of the South Stream by taking credit from this type of lender as in this case the Chinese partner. In that case, you might have a significantly lower interest and you would certainly have a second position as far as energy dependence is concerned, as it is definitely clear that by an oil-gas agreement Serbia has accepted this energy dependence from a state-owned company. This can't change any of the stories about how much this "South Stream" means to us, how much of it we're going to have a benefit, and it's about the following years, given your ability to negotiate, negotiate and specify the terms of the conclusion of a contract, or the implementation of that contract, Serbia won't see a dinar of that fee that you so much call on as, well, that's our privilege of having a "South Stream". In doing so, don't say anything about predicting the beginning of the work on November 24th, and you can't predict a tender for the contractor until December of this year. You forget, and what you predicted by the oil-gas agreement, that the beginning of the work was supposed to start back in 2012. So, the deadlines for the beginning of the work are expanded, you forget that Serbia does not have its own resources, that the funds it would invest in that construction must be borrowed and then borrowed at such high interest rates. It is interesting for all of these, as you say, profitable investments, that when you conclude contracts you also predict that both technology, services and everything else that involves the realization of a particular project is taken from that lender. So, it is the lender who will eventually hire a subcontractor in Serbia, probably at a much lower price than the one that would be particularly profitable for our companies dealing with these jobs, whether they are carrying out works, selling some technology, services, etc. You'll hardly be able to find any profit, as far as the realisation of that contract is concerned. I'm allowing there to be a certain benefit of what started with the construction of highways. However, given the way highways are built, even roads in Serbia, that it takes 20 years to build a few kilometers, this is where the question is actually being raised – is it really going to achieve that goal that you set for yourself when you took this loan from one side of the bank? Basically, we always go back to that basic system problem in Serbia, to take loans, not to ask the price for these loans, to enter into some major projects, I would allow myself to say, often megalomanic projects, and at some point forget about the project, while the credit remains on the burden of the taxpayers of this country. When we establish a clear principle of responsibility for those who negotiate such transactions, the one who provides for the objectives and reasons for the conclusion of these loans in the contract, when we include all our relevant institutions in the realisation and control of such investments, in which case we will be able to expect the concluded credit agreements not only to be a burden, but also to be a normal business relationship that is so common in the world. Look only at the content of this contract as many pens, costs and penalties as you have planned in case you don't do this, that you don't withdraw your loans, that you don't meet the conditions for withdrawing the loan and everything else regarding this project and the necessary documentation and pre-treatment. What confidence does this contractual partner have when it comes to Serbia? Obviously, they understand that there are many things that begin here and do not end, that many investments are done for someone's political promotion, and that in essence, it is rare to do a good job. I'd like this job about building a piece of the highway to end up with a Happy End, but considering how it's done here, how it's still done, and not seeing any clear shift in relation to this government towards this kind of investment, we can hardly expect that Happy End. So, Mr. Minister, you've talked a lot here, trying to be positive, being full of optimism, but it would be good to sort of bring things down to one rational measure, to be realistic and rational, and to say that this is a new financial commitment and that the question is how we're going to succeed, if we continue this way and at this rate to be in charge, to finish these beautiful projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27271	The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27272	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fundamental obligation of the state as an investor is to provide quality projects, to resolve property-legislative relations and to provide money, or funds for construction. Those before this government ran the state with international banks negotiated loans without doing quality projects and providing money for expropriation. That's what the minister was talking about earlier. Folkly speaking, it's like when you pick up a loan to build a house, you deal with the masters, and you don't have a salary or a good project. As far as projects are concerned, it is important for citizens to know that there were even shares that were contracted without projects or with projects made from the office. It is natural that after this approach as a result we have a problem with deadlines, problems with several million damage claims, cases such as "the Alps" and mistrust of the local public and creditors. Given that we have heard a lot about the loan contract itself in previous statements, I would not be particularly detained, and if the minister does not mind me, I would refer to the credit user, i.e. the company "Corridori Serbia". What was the new leadership, headed by Mr. Djurovic, found in October last year when they took over this institution? First of all, broken deadlines on almost all of Corridor 10 shares and the situation that most of the job performers in Serbia do not experience as their priority, the problem of expropriation on all shares, the bad projects that result in halting and delaying works, the 194 compensation requirement that no one has previously been engaged in, unfavourable contracts, poor good and quality communication with the World Bank, the EBRD and supervisions, the problem with the "Alpine", a low level of money withdrawn from the loan of around 170.5m euros and poor co-operation with the restoring ministry. Everyone is best told the works and results and in this context I will point to the following facts. In 2013, 44.1 km of road, 33.2 km of highway and 10.9 km of regional road, were completed and released in traffic so far. A share of Donji Neradovac-Serbian house of eight kilometers opened yesterday. The maximum engagement by the end of the year is expected to pave the way for another 14.5km, of which is eightkm of highway. At this point, it's working on 223 construction sites on Corridor 10 and 11, which is incomparably more than 67, as it was in the same period last year. The construction of seven new shares in Corridor 10 has started with a total of 49.7km in length of 290.5m euros. So far, the Corridors have withdrawn 181.7m euros in loans and by the end of the year, the figure will be higher than in 2009, up until October 2012, where only 70.5m euros have been raised or withdrawn. So in a year, 111.2m euros were withdrawn more loans than in the previous three years. A special accent in 2013 or until the end of this year and in 2014 shall be placed on buildings, i.e. tunnels and bridges that are on the shares. All the tunnels on Corridor 10 that are now in operation, and by the end of November, the left tunnel pipe of the Progon tunnel, 1007 meters long, will be breached. In December, the work begins in the tunnel of Manajle through the Gredile ravine. In Corridor 11, the minister also mentioned earlier, works go about 7% ahead of schedules. The reconstruction of the Lipak and Zeleznik tunnels, which were built four years ago and robbed and destroyed two years ago, will be completed by the end of November. In the "Serbian Corridors", damage claims, as I said earlier, have not been addressed by a single person. Today, more experts and consultants from the Faculty of Civil Engineering have been hired and the process of analysis has been initiated from a professional point of view of the downing of 194 damage claims inherited from previous leadership, with the aim of protecting the state. Compensation claims shall be dealt with as a matter of priority. The level of communication with expert supervision has been raised to a higher level and surveillance finally performs its function properly. The previous management of Corridors has completely neglected the work and communication with supervision, which the minister can testify to. Contracts with the Alpine have been broken down, bank guarantees have been charged. A damage claim has been filed against the "Alpine" and before the competent court in Vienna. A tender will be launched for two out of four shares financed from IBRD funds by Monday. After obtaining the consent of the World Bank, a tender will soon be launched for the remaining two shares. Although this is not a contractual obligation, in the period from New Year's to the end of the contract, Serbia's Corridors managed to reduce the Alpina debt to domestic producers from 700m to 420m dinars by maximum engagement. A reform of the internal organisation and the systematicisation of jobs has been carried out in the context of the "Serbian Corridor" in line with real needs. Khedrovski has been strengthened and replaced by a part of the construction sector. A work group has been formed for the follow-up and control of the project documentation. An expropriation analysis has been carried out on all the shares. Hodograms of payments have been introduced, resulting in the fact that "Serbia Corridors" are not late for payment to any performer. A function of human resources management and employee evaluation, which is a newspaper, has been introduced. As regards human resources policy, in "Serbian Corridors", when Dmitar Djurovic led, 76 employees worked, and on today 106 people were employed and only from facts, as I mentioned earlier, there were 67 construction sites, now over 220 construction sites. I also said this because of the citizens of Serbia, that they know how "Corridori" today, of course, with the presence of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism and the Ministry of Transport, are working. Seven new contracts at Corridor 10 worth 290m euros are necessary for a greater number of people. In addition, in May 2013, a contract was signed on the construction of the Obrenovac-Ub section, which is the subject of today's adoption, i.e. Lajkovac-Ljig, of a total share of 50 kilometers, with a value of $337 million, is purely recapitulation. The main objective of "Serbia Corridor" by the end of the year, related to planned mileage, is met. The strategic goal is to establish a system organisation that will allow for an increasing number of built-up kilometers each year and to realise the European average of highway construction of 52km annually. A year after the new leadership arrived, an internal organisation reform was completed, as I mentioned. Addressing the biggest problems that make it difficult to build highways through Serbia and the inherited catastrophic situation in terms of unsolved expropriation, poor projects and contracts and exposed damage claims towards complexity require maximum engagement of all relevant ministries. In view of what has been done so far, during the construction season of 2013, the reform of the internal organisation "Corridora" and the experience gained, it can be reasonably expected that 2014 will also be the year of the maximum affirmation of highway construction in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27273	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27274	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we can continue our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Ilic, today we are talking about an extremely important issue, because building the highway is a topic which, I would say, is vital to citizens and businesses living and operating in this part of Serbia, and of course I am thinking about all citizens of Serbia. The highway from Belgrade to Preljina, I think, is the most important development project for this part of our country. And you know for yourself how we've sent investors to Cachak and defined ourselves as some other environments, such as Indjia, or Paz, or Sremska Mitrovica, just because we're not connected to the Preston, the highway. Unfortunately, despite all the conditions that our local self-government has provided for the successful functioning of businesses, some have also left our city and transferred their business to other centres in Serbia. The saddest thing is that, that a concept was implemented that started when we were in government together, when Mr. Kostunica was prime minister and you were minister of infrastructure, with concessions, I am sure that at least this part of the highway so far would be finished and I think that the policy of the previous government, which has decided to break that concession, is in some way a crime against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in this part. I am sorry that Mr. Krstic, the finance minister, is not here today, because we certainly have some questions for him, which would clarify certain concerns for us, but based on his position that he has put forward, that Serbia's development will not be financed from the budget for the next few years, that means we will continue to be unwittingly in debt. This was the case in previous years, although often citizens' money was not used on planned development projects and you know well, while you were an MP in this parliament, and also as a member of the government, that very often the Republic of Serbia's budget was rebalanced before the end of the year so that those funds that were intended for investment were not used, went primarily into consumption, even if elections were announced, as was the last time before parliamentary elections, then it was really spent on some quite unnecessary things. Mr Minister, the 2014 draft budget, and we need to touch it, and in this debate, no development projects are foreseen, no new investments are foreseen. Mr Krstic's concept has been reduced to an increase in taxes, to a reduction in subsidies and costs, to the imminent layoff of workers and to the new borrowing of the state. That it's original, it's not. If it's already been seen, it is, and it will give results, you'll let me doubt it. Serbia asked China's Eksim Bank for loans. Now, there are different data, but somewhere, let's say, about 850 million euros. When we consider this section of the highway from Obrenovac to Ljig, but also some other projects, above all, I mean the Moravia Corridor, and you just brought out information about what happens to these funds, and I'm satisfied if they're going to build it, because that triangle between the Pojat, Batocina and Preljina is essential to all the citizens who live there. Half a million inhabitants of Pomorava are life-related to this Moravia Corridor. We know there's been a change in the terms of the contract, that the Chinese have increased the price by $150 million. That's what we've been doing with Mrs Kalanovic, but I sincerely hope you'll make it possible for both the concession and Cačak and Western Serbia to connect with this part of Kruševaca at Kragujevac. The Chinese are lending part of Corridor 11 from Obrenovac to Ub, and from Lykovec to Ljig, worth 301 million dollars. This is the contract we are discussing here today, with the participation of the 10% Serbian state, of course. The Chinese are crediting, the Chinese are working, or should be working, on three highways, on a bridge across the Danube and on the modernisation of TE “Kostolac”. That's good. These are investments of over two billion euros, but what's not good for us? That the Chinese are bringing their companies, their engineers, their designers and their workers to these sites. I'm sure you know the information that Chinese workers working on a bridge across the Danube have their own restaurant. They don't even buy food here. I'm sure it's not good that when a foreign state lends credit, it conditiones us that we can't use our domestic operation in full, and we all know how important the construction operation is for the development of this country and what percentage the decline of the construction industry in Serbia has been lately. The section of the highway from Obrenovac to Ljiga, i.e. one part from Ljiga to Preljina, is extremely well built. It is planned for a length of 103km and is financed partly from the budget, part from the Chinese loan and part from the Azerbaijani loan. There is still a certain concern with me about concessions that will be given to maintain and collect tolls. If I count well for the 48.6km, worth 450m euros, on the basis of concessions will be collected annually, according to current toll prices, around 35m euros. So in 13 years, it's going to cover this amount of value of this investment, but I'm not clear that someone invests in a third of the time, and that they charge all 103 kilometers based on that concession. The problem is that the state will have to service the loan. The concessionaire will take his funds. Whether to invest in new highways or other projects, it remains only to be seen, but because of that, I think this loan, even though it is favourable... For all of us, we have listened to the previous four, five years of loans that this assembly has ratified that they are the best in the world, that they are justified and that they will bring development. Obviously, that didn't show up in practice. Who will take the picture at the opening of this highway in 2016, if God gives and if weather conditions and performers are active on it? I don't think it matters to you or to us right now. Many of the paintings were tours around Belgrade, which was opened several times before the elections and in various election campaigns, and unfortunately that part of the road has not yet been completed. What's important is how we're going to repay this one, and so are many other loans. We'll have this one back by 2033. That he's the only one, so let's understand. Minister Antic said here a few days ago that Serbia will approach European standards in 2014 and build up to 55km of highways annually. I'm a man who's really looking at things, and I'm justifiably doubting that's how it's going to happen in practice, since from 2001 to 2012, we finished some 40 kilometers of highway in full profile, 260 kilometers of highway half-profile. That's why a billion and 300m euros were spent. If we create a comparative, let's say, with Croatia, in which over 580 kilometers of highway was built for three billion dollars, then that mathematics is not clear. In this way, I call upon you to really control this situation, to really monitor and to go away for those purposes that have led to credits being raised. I have another misunderstanding, and I believe you know that. Your colleague, life minister for nothing, Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin promised to invest 300 million dollars in the development and reconstruction of roads in the Rasko area in 2013. We spoke just before my colleague Bojana Bozanić and I about where the highway will go. We're rightfully afraid it's a political project. I am rightly doubtful, and I would not like to be right that a country that lends credit determines where roads will be built in the Republic of Serbia. We absolutely support the attitude and that part of the project and the study that was made to take the highway from Preljina and Cačka across Užica and towards Montenegro. I'm asking this because I want to know if there's money or if there's no money, if there's going to be something going on or not working in the future? You know how this usually happens in this congregation, some means are approved. The best example for this is the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", you know what was happening, and they were returned to maintaining regional roads in the length of six thousand kilometers, but in this budget there were double-decreased funds for the job compared to the estimated funds needed for this year. These roads, meanwhile, were unfortunately damaged and failed, because certain local self-governments did not simply have the opportunity to deal with this business and to do it in a quality way and what is frightening is that in the first nine months of this year, the state spent in some way 17.3 billion dinars, because it had to pay off loans from public enterprises that it could not serve, including "The Ways of Serbia" and "The Railways" and "JAT and "Galenika" and "Srbijagas". You said that the highway, the construction of the highway, the Serbian economy, the Serbian building, of course it will, will run tourism, hotel services, but again Minister Krstic, I have the impression that it will not be able to respond to the debate on the budget, that Serbian tourism will develop if the VAT increases by 12% and if the growth that tourism achieved in the previous year from 12% will be seen to fall from 5% to 10% in 2014 precisely because of this, of course, with the risk that 4,000 people will lose their jobs. I'm sure you represent the concept that you represent, I say, and in that period from 2004 to 2008 about the construction of these roads and the way they're going to be built, but I'm afraid the finance minister thinks he's a minister in America, and that the budget deficit, that's the money that needs to be buried, can't be implemented as Americans do by printing dollars without cover, we can't do that because it leads us to a secure bankruptcy. Finally, after this debate today, I will sit in my car as well as my colleagues, who I see in this Ibarska highway, 137 kilometers to Cačka in two and a half hours, but indeed with great desire and hope that this time will be twice as short in 2016, that we will finally be able to secure, safer and faster to connect with Belgrade, but certainly also with the Adriatic and other parts of Serbia with the Republic of Serbia and with Rasinski and Pomorava County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27276	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27277	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the E763 highway construction project on the part of Obrenovac to Ljiga between the government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Economy as a borrower and Chinese Exporter Bank of the Borrower, was signed in Beijing on 26 August 2013, during an official visit to the Republic of Serbia's National Republic of China, led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic. I consider it extremely favourable for the Republic of Serbia, because the People's Republic of China covers the so-called so-called. the losses on interest by subsidising which makes the loan very favourable. The credit payment period is 20 years with a start of five years and a repayment period of 15 years and a fixed interest rate of 2.5% on an annual basis, as well as the possibility of early repayment of a loan of 1% annually. For a share of the E763 highway from Obrenovac to Ljig, a $301m debt is foreseen, making up about 90% of the project's share. Of the $333.7 million planned, as long as it takes to build this section of Corridor 11. China's Export Bank undertakes to pay 15% of the credit for the start of works on the E763 Obrenovac-Ljig highway, while the Republic of Serbia has 10% of its participation in the project, already in the 2014 budget proposal, at the request of the construction ministry. In accordance with the commercial contract, goods, technologies and services supplied from credit funds will be purchased exclusively from the People's Republic of China. The Chinese “Shandon High Speed Group” will build parts of Corridor 11 from Obrenovac to Ljiga in the length of about 50 km. The participation of Chinese companies in the implementation of projects in Serbia is 51% and Serbian companies 49%. The Republic of Serbia is becoming the first country to use the project's planned $10 billion that China has purposed to invest and realise projects in Southeast Europe. I must point out that the section of the E763 Obrenovac-Lig highway plays a role in connecting Corridors 10 and 11 with the Adriatic Sea, or Bar Airport, as a goods transport centre where road, rail and maritime traffic are combined. I believe that the realisation of this favourable loan for project implementation in Serbia is the result of good co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China in order to improve economic co-operation and the implementation of interstate agreements on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure. As the loan agreement for the realisation of the E763 highway project on the part of Obrenovac to Ljiga contributes to the economic and economic development of regional areas, by joining Vojvodina, Belgrade, central and western Serbia is also in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement by the Chinese bank's "Export Import", as well as the confirmation of an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27278	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27279	The respected presidency, Mr. Minister, today's main topic, although the debate is united, is to take credit for highway work towards western Serbia, i.e. towards Preljina, continues to towards Montenegro worth 300m euros. The DSS parliamentary group as my colleagues have announced, as has been the case until now, when infrastructure projects were being carried out, has been commendingly looking at projects like this and we will support this type of investment that is happening in Serbia. Of course, we also have a number of things that we want to ask you and get answers to some of the concerns that are being carried out in public and give some suggestions on how and how to improve our infrastructure, because infrastructure is something that is most important in one country. The degree of development is measured mainly through the quality of life, but also through the development of infrastructure and the availability of certain parts of the country, or certain objects through infrastructure. You mentioned that this part of Preljina will be financed from the Chinese loan, that it is a favourable loan, that the state of Serbia has received practically the most favourable interest for the realization of this loan. What we don't like, I suppose, is that this credit as well as most of the credit we've taken so far to develop our infrastructure is conditioned either by international tenders or by those who give these loans, that their companies perform the works. This is directly contrary to what you said at the beginning of today's exposure, that through these investments domestic economy will be launched. However, to be honest, it will be partly supported by these investments, one part of our domestic economy will be employed, but far from what would be logical and normal. My colleague mentioned earlier that in the past ten years, Croatia has owed about three billion euros and has re-traced the entire Croatian roads. Over 500km of highways have been built and most of these highways have been run by domestic companies, which unfortunately is not the case in Serbia. Complete Corridor 10 towards the south, i.e. towards the Macedonian border and towards the east, foreign companies work towards Bulgaria's border. Almost all the loans we have raised so far in a very small part, one part of the shares are performers of a domestic company such as Ratko Mitrovica, Planuma and some other consortiums, and mostly foreign companies "Terne", "Actora", "Alpine", "Superre", etc., do not list what they are already called. Strabagerd also worked part of the job. Mostly from a billion and a half euros taken to develop domestic infrastructure for the completion of Corridor 10, other highways are contractors of a foreign company. We were directly conditioned to have to be international tenders that were very highly restricted and where domestic companies had been eliminated with the conditions of the tender, where unfortunately, besides getting a job, they couldn't drag sand from Austria or Greece, grinding stones and driving on our roads, taking our domestic companies as subcontractors and making contracts with them at miserable prices, and then when they couldn't meet the terms of the contract, such as "Alpine" went bankrupt, went bankrupt, and withdrew from the market, or broke a contract with "Puts of Serbia", and our domestic subcontractors would practically bankrupt. In doing so, the state of Serbia has allowed this "Alpine" to register a limited-responsibility society in Serbia, that such a firm should get a job out of the credit we pay, to take subcontractors, to make a complete story without giving them guarantees and that the state of Serbia does not want to protect those subcontractors that are domestic companies and that will make them bankrupt. When the Alpina entered the business, a 10m-euro guarantee was given. The Alpine now owes more than threem euros to those small subcontractors to the east towards Bulgaria. It's about a dozen companies that worked as subcontractors. No single euro has paid them, and the "Serbian Ways" and the state of Serbia do not want the part that has laid down the "Alpine" as a guarantee to the subcontractors who have done the job. He's chasing them to pay VAT for the situation being put out towards "the Alps". Is that normal? I believe you'll agree that it's really wrong and that through this job that was meant to contribute not only to building our infrastructure but also to hiring our companies and raising the general standards of citizens, we're actually going to bring down a few companies and that dozens of workers lose their jobs. Through an entirely irrational approach to this kind of organization of business, we will literally do damage to ourselves. The deadlines are way too long ago. That stock was supposed to be over or it should be over. The rate of construction ranges from amazing 14% to 60 at best. The deadlines are up or running out in a few months. Our companies were subcontractors and they did the whole job. The entire Kajmak has downloaded the "Alpine" or any foreign performer who won the international tender, and the state is chasing our subcontractors to pay VAT and is not protecting them in any way that they can collect these claims from the main performer. This is an absolutely incredible situation, and I ask you, and I believe that you have certain solutions to protect domestic companies because it would be crazy for the state of Serbia to be in charge and to pay huge loans and interest, to pay the Alpina who came here to take off the kamak and to have our companies go bankrupt. There's a very important question here that we don't understand. You mentioned him about concessions. The second part of this highway to the southern Adriatic should be made from concession sources, where the concessionary will be either the mentioned Chinese firm or someone who answers, where the government has called concessions, but your explanation that after the completion of the complete stock, since the concession works on some 50km of highways, and the total share is about 150 km, one third we will build with concessions, and two thirds of the states of Serbia will build through the loan, and then we will give the concessionaire control until he pays off his funds. Where is the state of Serbia? What's the logic of us investing two-thirds of the money to build two-thirds of the highway and then giving the concessionaire to pay off his assets first, and when we get to the turn? Who's going to pay interest for that period until the concessionaire pulls out his assets? I don't think that makes any sense. If the 50km-long concession is a concessionary, then make an offer for 20 or 25 years, as far as it is concerned, to extract its assets, not to extract funds from the part where Serbia invested its funds. If that's what you're gonna do, I'll call in to be a concessionist. I'd love to invest and finish that part of the highway so I can pay off from what the state has invested. That doesn't make any sense. The third thing I wanted to mention and ask you, I don't know what your authority is about the company "Serb Corridors". I spoke the other day when the Law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads was on the agenda. For the past year, around 45 employees have been employed in the company, saying that the projects are standing, that the small degree of performance of works is on certain highways and that new people should be employed in order to decommission the job, but the interesting thing is that out of these 90 people are barely nine engineers, and the rest are managers, economists or already professions. The percentage of executions is as follows: to start from what is most interesting, and this is the highway E 75 project "South", mainly received "Terna" or "Aktor", Greek companies, or "Alpina" with which the contract was terminated, Vladic's Han-Donji Neradovac's deadline is 25.7.2014; for eight more months, 16% of the works have been completed; the next share of Donji Neredovac-Prevalac has remained for eight months, 17.8%; the next share has eight months, 18%; the next share of the Donji Neredovac-Serbian House, the deadline has long expired and 70% of the works has been completed. "Actor" works on the "East" section towards Proseko and Bancereev; 18 months have been performed and another five months are up until the end of the deadline and 22%. The percentages of 14, 28, 30 to the maximum 89 where the deadline has long expired are factual data that indicate that projects are very slow and that it is likely that the problem in the organisation is both the investor and the performer, but since we are the country in charge of it, we have the right to ask those who perform the work and to introduce them to work on time and to perform them under certain conditions. I must point out that you have reacted justly insinuating the organisation of the business in the Corridors, which is why, due to the delays in work and such human resources, we have so far paid four million euros this year due to undrawn credit funds. Please consider the situation in the Corridors with your coalition partners, to see who is doing it, how projects run, at the speed they are taking place, so that the citizens of Serbia do not pay for, say, undrawn funds or those illicit actions that are done in the Corridors, such as conditioning the performers to take companies that are close to the leadership to obtain certain materials and perform certain fine works, conditioning that – we will not sign the situation if you do not pay these subcontractors. Regardless of all the negatives, this loan taken to complete the highway towards Western Serbia is necessary and I believe that the speed of the realization of this loan and the performance of the work will be far better and more successful than on these other shares that I have already mentioned would be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27280	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27281	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Then when in this House, lies are spoken, then dignity is violated. Mr. Chairman, I respect that you cannot have knowledge of every segment of our society, and you cannot have complete documentation to interrupt someone when they represent some data that is not valid for October 2013, perhaps for October 2012. But in October 2013, and this time I'm going to tell you, and the public in Serbia, that next time you can interrupt the speaker at a time when he's got some things that aren't true, which is that until now, 44.1 km of time in Serbia, I'm talking about this year, 33.2 km of highway and 10.9 km of regional roads, and that's 14. 11, not what ended, I suppose, 70%, but the share of Donji Neradovac-Serbian house, which is 8 km long, has been opened. And that at this point, due to weather conditions and anything, the season is over and it's not working anymore, we're back at 44.1 km, and the European average is 52 km of highways that one country can make. I am sure that we will join this European average in the next month and a half, if the weather conditions permit such a thing. On the other hand, it's hard to say here – we have knowledge that someone is conditional on something. If there is any knowledge that something is being done against the law, I ask you, Mr. Chairman, that every MP, as I call on anyone who has knowledge that there is something going on somewhere against the law, here is the prosecution, here is the police, there are the courts, so let them deal with it rather than stand here halfway, and especially with some things that are not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27282	Time, Mr. Granny. Once again, I call upon all Members of Parliament not to use the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure. Whether Mr. Lapcevic was telling the truth or not, I didn't say once or twice that I wasn't going to get into it. At the very least, there is a minister who can argue, in his debate on the law, to either deny or confirm it. That's why I'm asking you one more time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Lapcevic was saying, as true or not, I'm not going in. After all, let's start by saying he's in opposition, and maybe he has a right to say things a little differently or to see them differently. There's a word Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27283	I wanted to talk about what we just heard. These are data that were in the past year and therefore there has been a change of management in the Corridors, because it was a small fulfillment of the implementation of the projects. Now it has grown drastically. We started with the Azerbaijani loan much later, almost half a year late. Now we've arrived at that dynamic and transferred it by 7%. We made up for lost and still transferred 7%, as if we started on time, so it turns out that 150% was done in effective working time. I wanted to say that the conditions have improved significantly, and this is the result of how many miles it's built and how much it's going to build. That's why it is the interest of the banks to finance projects if it's done quickly and if it's built quickly. I expect that the highway to Corridor 11 will be completed significantly earlier than is provided for in the documentation and contract itself. Secondly, there is talk of Serbian companies, travellers, construction companies. Unfortunately, we have today's work, it's not the government's fault, we've found such a situation, the situation is slightly improved through these investments, today we have two companies in Serbia capable of credit, which can provide bank guarantees and get one big job, for example on Corridor 11, at Corridor 10. The others can't, they got into trouble during some previous period. When I was a minister in the last government, no toll company was in bankruptcy, not nearly bankrupt, and none was blocked. Now we have nothing to do with it. We give our passengers a chance, but they can't get out because they have nothing to do with it. That's why we want through a partnership with foreign companies to re-elevate them, get references and start working. Some are already extremely high, stronger, and moving forward. As for the concession, I didn't do the budget. It was an independent house, chosen by an international tender. Why? That's the concession law. And concession contracts will work most likely by the World Bank, it will be an international tender. What's the price of these 50 kilometers to be built? These are the most expensive objects. More expensive is the bridge on Savi and Surcinska loop than, for example, 50 km of highway. That's how the paperwork works. And passing through the most difficult section – Ovčarsko-Cablarska gorge, where you have 3,700 meters of tunnel and 3,500 meters of bridges that go and connect from hill to hill. They're the most expensive objects and nobody's gonna take them. Those two small shares are more expensive than these 100 miles. The performer's more expensive. Do you understand? I'd like it to be cheaper, but, it's called out, people have answered, bids and banks are recalculating, and we can't make someone work below price, that's impossible. What these banks gave without these subsidized loans and without conditions to enter their workers, they did, but only because our companies didn't have the opportunity to compete and get these jobs. You're from Nis. You had one of the strongest travel companies in Serbia, after the "Belgrade" PPP, we had "Putve Nis". Right? It's not our fault she's in bankruptcy. She went bankrupt. The PPP "Belgrade" went bankrupt. It's not during this government. We've hired all the way from these companies to work today, whether they're Azerbaijani, whether they're at the Energy Project, but 2,000 people are working today from those companies that have failed. On this loan, another 3,000 people will be employed. We cannot find a carpenter and army man in Serbia today. They're gone. Here, we don't have a welder. So, all the people who do this job, all the engineers, the truck drivers, they're all employees and everybody does. Go to the construction site, thousands of vehicles are working, as are the machines. You say we're importing machines. That's true, but it's not my fault that we in the state don't have any machines that can drill for example. 900-metre tunnel. We have to buy from someone. Of course, if the Chinese are twice as cheap as the Germans, then we'll take it to the Chinese where it's twice as cheap. Our operation is out of date with technology. We had sanctions, we had a war, we had company bankruptcy, etc. And it's exceeded, we can't achieve the effects that need to be achieved in construction, and so our companies through these businesses will be technically equipped with both mechanisms and references, that they will be able to compete in the future to operate on their own. If we're working hundreds of bridges, suddenly eight big tunnels, then we have a chance to recover these companies. All the tunnels work for our companies. All the big bridges work for our domestic companies. Therefore, many materials are being spent and see how much purchasing power has grown in municipalities where the highway has passed and where the works are now being done. It fills the budget, through the profit tax. Of course, there you eat, drink, use certain sleeping facilities, food and drink, service stations, buy fuel, oily etc. They're big items in road construction. No one brought oil from another country, but bought it here. There'll be bitumen here. There'll be lots of things to buy. Those are the largest items. The quarrys are all working at full capacity. They're opening up a new one. So this is a big incentive for development. It's not our fault that many companies went bankrupt, that they got into trouble. Now that the story begins, sometimes as a minister I warned - Miskovic, tap, pull the manual, don't touch the travel economy. Everyone attacked me for it. I was absolutely right and I knew exactly when he bought all these companies that would be what it was. So I repeat, we're fighting to put it back on its feet now, so that we can go through foreign investments, through foreign companies that simply dump those companies on our feet. I did not bring the Bridge into these problems. She was once a giant, but today she wasn't. He's on his knees today. She needs strength to rise again. I'm glad we raised the maximum now "Energoproject" through these investments. It's the Serbian giant again. I hope there will be a "Planum" too, that there will be many, that they will rise up and begin to be what they used to be. But we have to go through business, we can't give them out of the budget. How do we get them back? Here, now you have companies that owe 20 to 30m euros are in the blockade. Political investment destroyed Serbia. I won't tell you again now. There were words here that as steel grew, it was also on the bridge on Ada. Yeah, but it's not 300%, it's 35%. I'm not going to explain to you now who the subcontractors have been on many projects and destroyed large companies, our giant, political subcontractors. I am not going to explain now that several ministers of previous mandates had private firms working on these projects and burying our companies that were elite in Serbia. So it's all one policy that's been in one time and we need to get over it as soon as possible. It's important for us to hire these people to work today. To stand on your feet and work. That's hard. In order to get on your feet, we need to be in charge. But we need to get some good credit from our friends and get on our feet. Those who want to give us, to invest in Serbia, come. They want to invest and look for projects to help us. It's good to say now – we can do it ourselves. We can't. You saw we couldn't do it alone. So someone's got to help us. That's why we were helped by friends from countries who highly value and respect us, with favourable loans to return to the market. Do you believe me, I brought three contracts from Iraq, blank, no tender? He brought them and gave them to our companies. Prices are excellent both in low construction and in construction, housing. Do you think anyone answered? Nobody. You know what they told me? "Minister, we have nothing to go to Iraq with, let alone work. “ It shows the condition. So they need the strength to be strong, to stop. Here, for example. in Nis, I personally tried to get you funds for housing for socially endangered residents. You don't have a single firm in Nis for a year to make apartments. You've been fighting the tender for a year, and you can't solve it. Your money's been on since December last year. Do you understand? You haven't finished the tender yet. Why? There isn't. You know who competed with you? Belgrade firms and various companies on the side, and none from Nis, which will get a job. What's the problem? What don't you have a company for? Where are your companies? They've been destroyed through various jobs that haven't been paid, through various funds. You've seen how much they owe certain banks to performers. Just take the Vojvodine Development Bank as much as it owes millions – 150m euros. How do we get them back in the game when they can't pay for fuel? They still buy barrels of oil, let alone do the work, repair the machine, etc. So, please don't put any heavy points into it. We are in trouble, but we are slowly getting on our feet with a good organization, and I hope that we will overcome these crises that have affected us, through investment, through jobs, through employment, and here's a chance to start it. So please support the loan. This is a direct debate about the loan, a ratification of the loan agreement. Let's not open the topic of concessions now. We'll talk about it another time, when we bring the facts here, when we give you the material. When he does the world's most likely proposal for a contract, maybe that's not the case, maybe it's completely different. We haven't even made that contract yet, we haven't taken the parameters. So when that comes to hand, we'll talk about South Stream some other time, when it comes. We'll talk about everything, and now let's concentrate and finish this business of ratification of this contract that is necessary for Serbia at this point. Don't let us invest and make half the highway, go out into the fields and stop there. It's the worst situation for us to stay and stand for years and heal it into nettles. It's about making a realisation, putting it into operation, and getting the money back through the toll collection.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27284	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27285	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for such a detailed answer. Yes, you were precise, the works I didn't mention to be late, and you mentioned they were all ahead of schedule, these are works towards Preljina, or the South Corridor. I was talking about papers that are terribly late in the east of Corridor 10 and in the south. I responsibly claim that on certain shares they range from 15% to 30%, and you know it very well. As for the concession, I accept, we'll talk when the time comes. According to my data, the concession should be worth about 250m euros, and the rest of the country should invest about 500, so it's about moving around, although it's not exactly the same mileage, but it doesn't matter. The topic of employment of domestic economy and inability to take over our domestic companies, and why did they come into this situation? They came into this situation precisely because unfortunately, there are very few private investments in this country. Mostly the investments made in this country stem from the state, from state loans, from state-owned enterprises. Such tenders have been for the last ten years that domestic companies couldn't even contact them, but they were good to be subcontractors to these same foreign companies that got the job. You know yourself, dozens of cases and "Alpine" and "The Strabag" that all the long jobs were the dirty ones that would say, did those domestic companies that couldn't get a job because of the terms of the tender, and then of course when these foreigners picked up the smoke and didn't pay off as the Alpine case was done to the domestic producers they went bankrupt and today they can't report to be performers, so I can't because the state has gone through with them indirectly. You, I recall, both in the past term and at the beginning of this term, said you should be made a consortium of domestic companies Ivan Milutinović, Ratko Mitrovic, etc. It's kind of your role, to gather them together and try that contract from Iraq or some part of the highway to create a consortium and help them, even if the state gives them a guarantee that they get a job and get on their feet. They won't get on their feet if they're the bidders of a foreign company, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27286	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27287	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, of the importance of building roads, bridges and at all the importance of building, I don't suppose anyone in particular needs to talk about. About building this highway from Belgrade to Preljin and Cačko, we have heard many different opinions today and it has been processed with various aspects of credit, financial, projected how this should already look in various ways, and I would look at the security aspect of what is called human life on the road and which has been seriously endangered for many years at the Ibaric Masteral. If you live in Belgrade, you still don't have a particular traffic problem other than Belgrade traffic jam, but if you need to start from Belgrade on the southwest or central Serbia road and you need to get on the Ibar highway, then you already have a headache. We have a little highway to Nis, a little further south and east of Nis and something through Vojvodina. Indeed, a very large part of Serbia is not covered by roads and you often hear from our guests from abroad who drive thousands of miles to Belgrade on highways, and then about 150 to Cačka, the Ibar Highway, who say we are much more tired of driving these 100 or 150 kilometers than driving through Europe 2,000 to 2,500 km. The same situation if you get on a plane to the airport then even some people drop out of the next Ibar Highway to get to Chačka, Požega, Užica, Kings anyway. There was recently a curiosity when our guest from Germany wanted to return from Belgrade from Surcinski airport when he came to the highway and saw where he was supposed to go, and then he jumped into the help of a small plane that carried a man to a small sports airport in Preljina, and thus took the journey of our potential partner from the west. Another piece of evidence of what the road means, what the quality of the road means. The frequency of 17,000 vehicles in Preljina or 27,000 in Lazarevec really speaks a lot about how much trouble driving the Ibar highway is. Since I have traveled from the region of Preljina, from Cačka, and I have traveled this entire parliamentary mandate and have crossed over 60,000 kilometers, it has really become clear to me exactly what the effort is for me and for other colleagues and for all the citizens who travel on that highway. The Traffic Safety Act has tried with some very rigorous legal provisions to discipline drivers on the road, that every few miles of Ibar highway you have work or speed limit to 50, 60, 70 kilometers per hour, which slows down the road terribly. You're being punished for being too speedy to see me very strictly for the conditions of our standard. You have a pursuit of drivers who don't tie up the so-called. Belts and also high penalties for that, although I'm not sure the belt can do any kind of life-saving service. But what can definitely help and what only helps, it's a good road, a good highway that's the basic element of traffic security. The second element, a good car, means the driver does something that guarantees security on the way. If not working this time, a network of highways would not be built that would connect all of Serbia to one network, so that it could communicate and develop this country. He really thinks we'd stay on tails and Europe and the world like we're most of our territory of the one that's related to building this time abandoned and neglected. We have a huge number of people moving from these parts, so we have a practically cave high-rise and a Golia that is empty every day and people are coming and changing their 100-year habitats for the one where they have their way, where they have communication. Something that's really important, I think we could list a few hours of reason for the Ibar highway to finally be declared a historic road that will remain one memory to all those who spent days and years on it, and that the Obrenovac-Ljig highway is financed in one way or another. Of course, this is something that has already reached the realization, as we have heard from both the minister and many MPs so far. The credit arrangement is favourable, and it really needs to be used so that it doesn't stay to hang that part of the highway that is already being built from Preljina to Ljiga and which is making very good progress. As for the aspect of security, I really don't think it's possible to object to this subject of something called the highway and that aspect of taking care of its people and its offspring. What many have mentioned here so far, the construction aspect, I think it's something that's inherited from the past. Just before, the minister said that many of our companies had been shut down because they could not operate under the conditions under which they were being operated. It seems to me, if I have a good memory, that someone in both previous governments and this parliament has passed some law that restricts and restricts some of our domestic construction firms so that they can appear on some big projects if they have a certain figure in their previous balance of success that, now don't hold my word, one million or five million euros, it doesn't matter. I think it was also an administrative obstacle for these companies to appear on some big or smaller projects so they could maintain their operations and work. I really think there are a lot of aspects that can be supported by the construction of this section from Obrenovac to Ljiga, through Preljina and Požega to the southern Adriatic. From my personal point of view, I think it will be revolutionary for that part of Serbia, which is called central and western, to connect with the capital and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27288	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27289	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the respected ministers, the facts that my colleagues spoke of before me, that you warned long ago that if Serbia did what it did in the past that it would be left without a construction operation, it gives us additional arguments to insist on your work, as well as me as the president of the Roma Party and as a member of the SNS Parliament Club. I would not talk about the importance of this job that you are doing for Serbia's even and regional development and how important it is that complete Serbia actually begins to live, not just to live large cities and to be asked tomorrow by people in other parts of Serbia such as Šumadija. What's this about, who's taking care of us. I'd like to suggest an idea that we've discussed, and I'm talking more here for MPs and for the public to see in what way and how we can through this project and through these activities to build a socially responsible state. It is about the organisation for European security and co-operation for the next year being prepared through two projects of about a million and a half euros that should boost the process of hiring the most socially vulnerable groups, most of which refers to the Roma as the most socially endangered category. We have two options, that we leave these funds to finance certain actions that are not the strategic interest of Serbia, therefore, which are not infrastructure building, which are not investing in agriculture, or we have the possibility that the activities of certain ministries in this particular case, the activities of the ministry that you are conducting, create such conditions that part of that million euros that should be, among other things, to form trade cooperatives, to create conditions or to provide certain machines or something else, I don't know at this moment what we're simply looking for to help, as we have transferred to your associates, that we are just defining such activities to use that money to get these people right in the direction you're talking about, which is that we have deficits in the carpenters, in the armers, and in some other types of crafts, is that if we're in a clear way that we're going to be able to do this kind of justice, if we're going to be able to do this kind of work with certain types of work. Then we deal with people who have already got things to do in these tenders, so according to the Public Procurement Act, in accordance with international tenders, then we can also prepare this cooperative with international means to do very specific jobs on that path. If we talk about around 2,000 people who are going to be employed, if we can get 50 or hundreds through this, exactly the most socially endangered categories, and if we do it in dozens of different projects next year, then we will also achieve a significant result both on the way to the EU and on the path to creating a social justice society, because in one clear way we will also make two components to Mom. One component where the state will show that it is responsible but also another component where the most socially endangered, where both Romi and I as representatives of one part of that community will show that we are working in Serbia's interest, that we care about building Serbia and that the only thing we do is work that is in Serbia's interest. Otherwise, if we do not, instead of people who will be carpenters, who will be armymen, who will be part of a new construction operation, we will have some service activities that are not recognized as essential in Serbia's development strategy. It'll be a mistake and a double mistake. The first mistake is that we're going to spend that money on some lame stuff in Serbia, and on the other hand it's going to be a mistake for these people to stay as someone who's going to be a permanent ballast to Serbia and tomorrow, instead of being someone who's a budget filler, we're going to make them someone who's a budget user. In that direction, I'd like to give you another idea that we've discussed with your people at the Ministry. The funds have also been provided for a co-worker in your ministry under the OSCE, who would be working to realise this. Therefore, the full payment of this person as an assistant would be paid by the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, or through a project funded by the Swedish Embassy, and there would be an opportunity for you as a minister to really set up this whole activity in the best possible way. In that sense, once again, I welcome our work as a whole. I want to say to the public that in this direction we have had several conversations, but simply because of the public we have to repeat all this is part of your work, your methodology and responsibility for the government you belong to for the development of Serbia, and in this sense we support this law and I will also be a member of the SNS Parliament Club and as president of the Roma Party in the voting day to support and vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27290	The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27291	Dear Chairman, Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, I am pleased that a large number of my colleagues took part in today's debate. This suggests that we have recognised the importance of the effects that will have the adoption of the bill today on the agenda for the development of Serbia's overall economy. The importance of the bill on the confirmation of the loan agreement for the authorised buyer's credit for the construction of the highway E 763 shares of Obrenovac – Ljig, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and China's "Export of the Bank" is multiple. When I say this, first of all, I mean connecting with Corridor 10 and establishing a link between Vojvodina, Belgrade and western Serbia. The Belgrade-South Adriatic highway is a link between Serbia and Montenegro, i.e. Belgrade and the South Adriatic, and in a broader context it will connect Romania, Serbia, Montenegro and Italy. Highway E 763 so-called Corridor 11 extends from Temisvar, via Vrsac, Belgrade, Cačka, Požega, Podgorica to Bar. The construction of this highway allows for the establishment of links between Western and central Europe and South-Eastern Europe. In parallel with this project, smaller infrastructure projects will also be developed, fostering the country's economic growth and creating new jobs. A large number of our Serbian companies will be engaged on this project and of course our workers. Insufficiently developed transport infrastructure in the Western Serbia region is a major obstacle to investment because there is no economic development without infrastructure. The great potential of this region, above all in the areas of agriculture, tourism and industry, has not been sufficiently exploited. The minister mentioned in his opening statement the overload of the Ibar highway, but also a large number of car accidents, often with a fatal outcome. The Ibar highway is the only route towards Montenegro, not only for travellers, but also for freight traffic. The frequency of the vehicle is increasing so that the highway technically can't take it anymore. It's about time something was done. I wish I had heard today from those who criticized this bill as a solution to the problems I was talking about? And finally, I am glad that this government has recognised the importance of investment in infrastructure which as a ultimate goal has more investment and therefore new jobs, which will directly affect our country's economic development. I'm sure the government made the right decision when it comes to the loan agreement with China's "Export Import Bank". The Serbian Progressive Party will support this bill and given the importance of developing infrastructure for our economy, I expect colleagues from other parties to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27292	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27293	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today is on the agenda of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement for the construction of a section of the section between Obrenovac and Liga on Corridor 11 and this is one of the most significant if not the most significant infrastructure project in Serbia whose construction is under way. This important project began construction during the mandate of the previous government led by the DS and we strongly support the implementation of this project. What we see as a problem when it comes to the ratification of this loan agreement is the essential objections we have and concern, above all, the Treaty signed on 13.5. and the Treaty signed without the prior ratification of this loan in parliament. Please, Mr. Ilic, explain to us the People's MPs so that we can make a statement about the loan itself - how is it possible that you signed it? Who authorized you? Has the government authorised you to sign a contract with a Chinese company contractor without a previously ratified loan agreement in parliament. Why is this very necessary and very important? Because in this agreement, several members are calling for the contract with the contractor, which was signed a commercial contract and we did not see it. The contract did not come into the hands of the MPs and we do not know what this commercial contract is that you signed. You know, when some director of the Planning and Construction Directorate, or some other executive director of a company, a firm in Serbia, a public firm, sign a contract without a decision in the budget, or a public call, it enters a serious problem with the law. This is a very serious problem, as far as the state is concerned, and some procedure and procedure should be respected. Please give us an answer to that. The second observation and the second issue, which we want to hear from you, why is the contracted value of the works higher by $33.5 million than the ones mentioned in the main project? It's something that's also very controversial and we didn't get an answer. You were not present at the Finance Committee meeting when we discussed this law and we did not receive answers from the Finance Ministry. I ask you to give us those answers, because it seems to us from the DS that what was well agreed during the previous government, the projects, you can't finish, because you don't have enough expert personnel and you don't know how to handle things until the end of the procedure. Mr. Ilic, when you talk about interest, you say it's only 2%. You should look at a member of the law that says that the interest is not 2%, but is 2.5% and that some 0.5% goes to manipulative costs and it is not big interest, I agree, it is a very favourable loan, but when we speak to citizens of Serbia, when you speak to the MPs, we should stick to facts and concrete information only. When before you, during the previous debate, Minister Mihajlovic was there, I mentioned an EPS liquidity loan and she assured me that the loan does not exist. The budget, which we MPs have received, envisions a liquidity debt, I repeat, for the first time in history, the EPS is in charge of a 100m-euro liquidity. I don't know if Mrs. Mihajlovic voted for the budget, she should have, and I'm asking you in this budget where the participation of the Republic of Serbia in this project is, as the deal also discusses the Serbian side's participation. Please explain that part to us. I think it's a problem and it's a matter of arbitration going on in Beijing, no longer in Paris, and there may be serious problems about it. I think that's what you should have thought about. I was talking about the fact that we don't know the details of the commercial agreement, we don't know what part, or the participation of domestic performers, domestic materials. I ask you to also tell us how many construction operations in Serbia can expect to operate under this agreement if it is ratified by the National Assembly. It's logical that our companies play this biggest role when it comes to building a highway, because somehow that money goes back to our economy and orbits our cash flows. I think, of course, that the importance of this agreement does not diminish that this government is still being borrowed in the coming year, about 4.5 billion euros without this agreement, and I think that these funds could have been used to improve infrastructure, for significant infrastructure projects like this one, because unless one country invests in infrastructure, in energy, in education, in modern times and years ahead, it has no survival and no salvation. Education, too. They're key branches. It is important that we all treat these branches with that attention and pay attention and respect the importance of those branches as much as we should. We do not think that this government can act in these areas as necessary, in order for Serbia to get out of the crisis, to come out of the problems it is in, and this proposal also confirms the budget and the way this agreement is ratified and the way the state of Serbia enters it. I'd like to ask you, you mentioned an airport conversion in the Boats. You said it ended. I'd like to inform you that this is over. A study should be carried out to enable the construction of the Cargo Centre and the operation of this Kargo Centre in Brodjevci needs an extension of the runway. As far as the conversion itself is concerned, it was completed during the previous government and it is not clear why the continuation of work on conversion has been blocked, why not use the airport but now, why all the projects that have started during the previous government have either stopped or progressed slowly. Also, I'm taking the opportunity, since it's important for construction in the place I come from, and I'm coming from the Kings, why did you refuse to sign an agreement on Dosite Street, on the urban regeneration of Dosite Street, the Worker's Village, where 1,300 citizens live? Why, despite adopting in Parliament the budget that envisions signing the agreement with the Central Bank of the Council of Europe, do you refuse to sign the contract? Was that also the government's decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27294	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27295	You've asked a few interesting questions, but all the questions are, more or less, provocative and you want me to talk now about some things that have been repeated a thousand times. You're asking me why the airport in the Boats hasn't been detained. How can we bring him in when there's no God to try? How was it done in the previous government, with what kind of documentation? Where's the project documentation? You signed an agreement with Turkey to give you 10m euros, and that's what you got, to do your runways, expand and extend, and to make them perform for 28m euros. You're talking about our companies. We've collected offers. Do you know how much this job is worth per project and how much domestic companies are looking for? Eighteen million euros. You get a $10 million donation and we'll pay $18 million to get the job done. That means that the donation has no purpose and that they're still doing the job. Guys, is that normal? Why? Because the Army's got a lot of problems and there's not a lot of work to be done and now it's got to be solved. It's a huge asset. You started this project and you didn't do anything. Now it's done again. You didn't even have a spatial plan, you didn't even have feasibility studies. The Machine Project has conducted a feasibility study recently. All you did was fake it. Look, don't bring me into the story now to explain it to you. If you're interested, you can get all the information on how much the administrative building costs. You just did it. You don't have a way, in what way and what. Do you know how much a square is in the administration building? Look at the paperwork and you'll see how much it costs? Let's not talk about it, let's not waste time, it's another topic. You're asking me why I signed the contract, that I broke the law? I signed it both times. The finance minister has authorized me to sign the financial part of the contract for the second time and commercially. Of course, with the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has authorized me to do so, unanimously, and the Government before the reconstruction and the Government after the reconstruction. The government confirmed the decision unanimously. Therefore, sir, I am the minister in the Serbian government chosen by this parliament. If the government powers me to do something, I'm her minister, I do it. If you think I didn't do something right, you'll be looking for papers and paperwork. You're asking me why $33 million is a more expensive project? Do you know when this project was done? I was doing it for the concession when I left in that last term. Imagine how much prices have changed since the concession was made. Project documentation was done when I left the government, because we couldn't make a concession, we couldn't report it, we couldn't make concessions agreements if we didn't have project documentation. It's a project documentation done when I left the government, because we couldn't make a concession, we couldn't report it, we couldn't make a concession deal without having a project documentation. So, this project documentation is old, made in 2006, 2007, complete project documentation, and now it's 2013. It's normal to have price differences, to have problems, etc. I don't want to talk about it with you right now, but don't tell me another little story again. People, if you understand one thing, you are the MPs, you represent Serbia, this people of Serbia. A highway from Belgrade in the southern Adriatic is Serbia's heart and necessary. It's where they die every day. I'd like someone to come out here and tell me it's against it, to see it, and to let the citizens of Serbia remember it and record it. The first time she dies at the Ibaric Master's Office, feel responsible for it. I travel every day. Is it possible there's traffic with 27,000 cars a day? Now you're talking about whether or not it was signed sooner or later, who authorized who. It's so important. The Serbian government knows what it's doing. It's not the government you represent here. The government brought three billion euros in investment in Serbia this year. Over three billion euros are expected next year. You laugh, sir, and you've ruined that airport in the Boats, and there you've ruined everything that's happened. That's what I guarantee you. A plane crashed today, about an hour ago at the airport in the Boats. That's very close. What you've done well... What's causing it? I didn't do anything there. An hour ago, a plane crashed in the Boats. Do you understand? Look at that, look at the logs there, and you'll see what the problem is. Why doesn't the military give consent? Because there are 100 things that are not well done. Go to the Ministry and ask what it is. I've never had any contacts and relationships there, but that's gonna be quick to clear things up. Now, don't tell stories about why the loan, whether this or that. Only one who hates Serbia and this people will not vote for credit, to build a finally highway that can no longer be without it. It's about every day that matters. That's why we work way ahead of schedule, day and night, three shifts to finish it on time, and we'll finish it long before the deadline. I took it. Don't ask me about any other roads. I don't run it. I run Corridor 11. We can talk about that. Come check it out. Here, I invite you all. I'd be happy to see the biggest construction site in Europe right now. Come see him, see the organization, take a ride. You can already come from Ligo to Preljina with a new route. The loop is working in Preljina right now. So, don't make a story out of it here if you need to, you don't need to. This is necessary to do. Every minute, every day is important. Thank you to our people working on that trip in three shifts, working day and night, working under reflectors every day and finishing the job. As long as I'm where I am, I'll fill everything in to get it over with. I said when I got here – it was necessary and difficult not to do it so far. Had it been luck, we would have opened the highway to Požega last May, but there are people who don't think like me, who think Serbia is in a circle of two. It's not. I have five children who travel every day on the Ibar highway. I'm sweating when they leave until they get here. I sweat every time. Anyone here who travels knows how miserable and miserable they are. Do you know on Friday nights how many hours we travel to Chuck's? Five hours each. That's why we have to make it, and it's our priority to all our priorities. This Serbia, if it thinks of its people, must make a path, otherwise this government cannot, neither, nor parliament, justify why it did not make it. There's nothing different than that. It's number one in Serbia to do. We have to do it, otherwise we all have to go home. There will be some new people who will be able to do it, not us here to discuss whether or not we should.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27296	Just one small remark, Mr. Jovanovic. I've tolerated your exposure that you're out of the picture. You mentioned education and airport and street construction in the King, which had nothing to do with the agenda. Please don't open a new topic. I'll give you the replica on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27297	Mr. Arsenović, I wasn't talking about the streets. I was talking about people living under inhuman conditions. If it's below your level that I'm talking about it, I'll keep talking, as I stand for the citizens who chose me, and you don't have to. As for you, Mr. Ilic, and these answers, let's call them what I got, they look like everything else, just don't look like answers. As for the construction of the highway, I said that our government, run by the DS, set it off. We signed an agreement with Azerbaijan, the construction started, part of Serbia's budget, also part of the money. That's one complete lie. You're trying to convince us ourselves that we're against it. Then you're making up some story about some plane that's fallen and has something to do with the conversion and the cargo center. You're the one who talked those people into having stories about the cargo center, the local self-government, to give up the money that USAID was giving them for the exercise study for the kargo center. You know how important this is, and you said -- it's going to be from the budget, as well as these 18 million that you spoke about Turkey. Where's that in the budget? I ask you as an MP from the King - where is Dosite, where is 18 million for conversion, where is everything you promise? You take every day from my region, and you never come back. That's what I'm asking you. As for the documentation, which path does your project have? What object of yours has a project, so you have the right to call anyone? When it comes to money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you will not stop me from talking about it. You cannot sign a commercial contract, no one can empower you, nor the minister, before it is ratified in parliament, Mr. Ilic. It's the kind of thing that people in Serbia do today, because you find ways to arrest and bring them in, your government, and then you say that 300 million can be signed. How can she do that? He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27298	Time. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27299	Let me just advertise Article 27. Mr. Chairman, you are a very correct MP from the King, my esteemed colleague, and you have warned that he is sticking to the agenda and we did not want to react. But in this second part, for the sake of the public, I just want to say a few facts, especially about this part where nothing goes back to the King. I would like to point out that during the time of Minister Ilic, four billion dinars of roads in the Kingdom were made, bypasses, bridges, bypasses around Zica, the old road. Mr. Jovanovic, these are facts. Don't, for the sake of the public, because the citizens of the Kings know very well what Mr. Ilic did.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27300	Mr. Spasojevic, don't cause another breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understand your injury to the Rules of Procedure. No matter what you're partly right, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, although I asked the MP to stick to the subject, given the full debate that was conducted between the minister and him. The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27301	For the sake of truth, for the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, the work in the King will be done, the dwellings will be done, 16 buildings, but not in the way it was done, but in the way it should be done. Not in a way to hit the hall party for 640 million, so it comes out in the end of 980, and it still needs 170 to end. That's not how it can be done. That's how these buildings couldn't work either. Why? No project has been done in the King, no location permit yet. Nothing's finished. You laugh, but look at that. You know what they have on the file? Just statements from citizens that they're agreed to tear down the building and move to apartments. Just that, nothing more. How do you expect to get a loan? Well, Minister Krstic said -- whoever doesn't have a license, who doesn't have contracts, can't get a credit line. This was not a credit line for a job in the King, but for refugees, so Minister Vlade Cvetkovic transferred from refugees to the King's earthquake to make buildings, but you did not make the documentation to ask for it. You wanted to take a loan in 2014, and when I was in the King the other day they say – the documentation can be completed by 2015. So by 2015, you'll get money, and you can't get money for a year. There's nowhere to do that. Another thing, don't tell the truth. Here, I publicly invite you, find one of my projects without a building permit and bring it to me, I'd be very glad I did it as a minister. Here, bring one project without a building permit and no paper. I'm not you. You've built a bridge, you've made many projects without any paper. I don't want to argue with you at all. I don't want to argue. I didn't do your projects. I didn't do what you did and I didn't give you permission because you didn't ask for them. Whoever requested permission did not wait more than 30 days for large infrastructure facilities. You can check that out. Today I'm being criticized by some of your people that we've given licenses to the South Stream immediately, day after day. And that bothers you? What would you say if we hadn't given it a year, like you didn't give it three years? The federal MUP stands for you in the City of Belgrade. You haven't given it up in five years. Will someone pay for the lost profit there? So, don't make any noises. Here's the credit ratification, and if you think I broke the law, you file charges against me according to that, not now that what's signed, what's signed, how's it going. Don't talk about it. Don't tell me about it. Don't tell me about the King. I beg you, not about the King. I've run so many jobs and investments there, and you've led one against earthquakes and no one's left at large. All the executives are in jail. Now you see the effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27302	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to, as someone who lives by the highway, pass on to you the experiences for which this loan law should be ratified, that others too have the same possibility that they live in the interior of living on a job or visiting relatives or business to travel modern cars that do not cross-reference with other roads. In 2000 to 2003, although there was a semi-road to Novi Sad and to Budapest, we demanded that the government and the director of the "Puteve", Timothyjevic, that one unsuccessful concession, which was, be stopped and that the highway to Novi Sad and Subotica should be dynamicd and that in such a way we should start, not only traffic safety, one economic development. By 2003, we finished our highway to Beska. Later he ended up in Novi Sad and until Saturday. In 2004, we were also asked by Branko Jocic, who inherited the former director and asked the Minister for the side of the highway and also got parallels with the highway and side-connection, and business development. You can look at the investments in Old Paz and Indjia. You can also look at this supposed highway, half the highway of death, which was then, with three strips and one yellow, where almost daily people were killed, more, of course, injured, the other disabled, as much as on that section strengthened traffic safety, the fewer deaths, and there is no money that can buy one life and how much business activity in that part of Serbia has been raised, unlike other parts that have not had the opportunity to build such a highway. So, that highway, of course, was made out of the budget, by the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so it's perfectly fine that other parts of Serbia in the same way, whether through loans, whether directly from the budget they get solid traffic and run some of their own development. This is important, and the minister talked about it because Serbia is empty. Soon, 1,000 villages and settlements will be without residents in Serbia. If we don't build these cars, I don't believe we'll keep the existing population, let alone rebuild the population where the land is abandoned, houses abandoned, etc. Infrastructure is something to come from. I am surprised that this country, after ten years of not being present in parliament, will be in charge, which is the economy, which is what citizens, which is public debt, with 45 billion, that we have 17-18 billion public debt, and that there is no building of a basic roadway, or highways through Serbia. So the money's gone somewhere. According to international estimates, nearly 51 billion euros have been made out of Serbia, and Serbia still has no highways that all countries have in the environment. That's where I count Croatia, Hungary and so on. The countries that have since the 1990s and 2000 since coughed behind Serbia, the countries that have been decomposed by the former Yugoslavia are now far ahead of Serbia, and Serbia has had basic highways and half highways. She had resolved property-legal affairs on certain shares and could do far better and faster to complete her infrastructure affairs. The highways, of course, will not solve the demographic issue by themselves, but compared to the highways, I've been presenting experiences, and certainly industrial zones, economic development. It's something that, first of all, should retain the existing population, and in the future, some of these unemployed from the big cities return to their father's estate and restore their jobs. What Serbia still lacks, apart from highways, are construction firms vacuumed under the Privatisation Act, and in the known procedures conducted by the former regime's party, where these construction firms are mostly taken, capital sucked, companies returned to the state as worthless, as something that goes into bankruptcy, as something that goes into liquidation. How was that built? I'll set an example from India, say, the University. The hall that was built, which was supposed to serve in 2009, we all had highways, etc. To serve for the 2009 university competition, it's not finished until today, and the money was broken twice as much, and the works were performed by a company purchased by a former regime party man, who, of course, failed. Now it's a hall, since it's built without the necessary documentation on the ground that's underwater. Now that hall is the largest aquarium in Serbia. So, when someone was already talking about how infrastructure was being built, how buildings were being built, they were supposed to be a little self-critical and say how it was built in Serbia. Let's say the cubic concrete in India, when you're private building cost 50 euros, but when they do so in Belgrade, the former regime's firm costs up to 500 euros. So, if we use concrete, it's private 50 euros, and if we use it for public purposes to build roads in Belgrade, etc., then it can cost up to 500 euros cubic euros. I'm also unhappy that I asked the question at the last session, when Minister Ilic was here, is it true that certain traffic stations within the Bridge on Ada were built without a building permit? Got the answer, that's right. I'm unhappy because the D.A. didn't do anything about it, and let's say when a peasant builds a shed or a barn somewhere in the country, he gets a criminal report. The illegal construction in one part of Serbia and in the private sector in the country is a criminal offence, and the construction of roads and facilities that are to be used by thousands of people is built without a building permit and it is not a criminal offence, no criminal proceedings are against those responsible, against investors, and therefore I will repeat the question to Minister Ilic. What is going to be done about construction of traffic stations, access areas without a building permit, what will be done about the guilt that is almost obvious, or whether the government plans in the near future to let it know in a certain way, that the prosecution finally begins to do its job, or that we as a parliament ask ourselves why the prosecution does not do the jobs, on whom it is independent, independent of this government, and it seems that nothing depends on the former government? As far as infrastructure is concerned, it is also very important for agriculture. The credit is very favourable. There is no infrastructure, what has disappointed me, there is no goods that would be transported by that infrastructure, domestic origin, given in comparison to infrastructure, compared to everything, Serbia is completely devastated and economical, and what is worst and moral. So, compared to this Chinese money loan, I'd like it to be the same way or in a similar way from commercial banks, with a similar rate of withdrawal that would be used in agriculture. So this won't be the last Chinese loan. I would like this country to withdraw one loan of three, four, five billion for the benefit of agriculture, and in such a way with cheap money, where the interest would not safely exceed 3, 3.5%, so that we can make a source for the repayment of all these debts, or to make the goods that we will be carrying tomorrow when this infrastructure is built. I could talk a lot more. I'll cut it short. Most of the time, we've listened to people here who, in their past term, when they were in power, have done nothing serious, almost be told that they didn't do anything much, but the question is, I'll end up, if they didn't do anything big, I'd like to finally find out how much they've built in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27304	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27305	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs. According to a global report on competitiveness, road quality, road infrastructure, Serbia is 122th out of 144 countries, World Bank transport experts warn. In the last 20 years, as many as 24,000 people have died on the roads to Serbia. According to the length of the highways, Serbia is very modestly represented by 610km of highways, unlike Slovenia which has 636, Croatia 1043, Hungary 1274, Germany and France not to speak 12,000 and 13,000 km. With the spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia, as I come from eastern Serbia, this is very important to say, before we continue on the law, the construction of the road of the first order of Požarec-Kučevo-Majdanpe-Bulgarian border has been planned, and no project documentation has yet been made. That's where 380,000 people live. I don't know when the last time, Mr. Minister, you were in that neighborhood traveling from Kučev to Majdanpek. The road is in catastrophic condition, so it's hard to compare what's more important than the bigger one. The Democratic Party will always vote in favour of the laws that predict the construction of roads and we cannot be instructed that we are against this contract. In our proposal last budget, we submitted an amendment to this very road that goes through my neighborhood, and we're going to do it this time, so I'd like an answer to whether we can find that 200 million for the project documentation. The next question I'm asking is about this particular bill, and that's next. Since the promoter is calling for a commercial contract with the performer, how can MPs vote for this law when they do not know the full terms of the commercial contract? Next question. What is the representation of domestic contractors, domestic materials and services? The bill promoter, as it stands in the material, is the Ministry of Finance and Business. It is now being reconstructed by the government, which lasted six months, divided into two ministries. I'm sorry the finance minister, Mr. Lazar Krstic, isn't here, could we talk to him about these problems? Some lawmakers mainly dealt with Belgrade. I must say that in Belgrade over the past four years, 1,000 km of roads have been made, of which 580 km of roads have been completely new. What is the European average? And that's what we talked about here. I can say that 40km of roads are being made in our southern province of Kosovo. What is important and what I would like to know, as well as the citizens of Serbia, is the very control of the construction of these roads. I, as a folk MP, crossed 200,000 miles, visited all of Serbia. There's almost a small share where the safety on the roads is complete. Did the ministry and the authorities, did they exercise control of the construction of the lower, upper road machine, the thickness of the asphalt? What about the director of "The Way of Serbia" Drobnjak? Whose tub is he? What kind of jobs were done and what were the machinations? The next question for you, Mr. Minister, is extremely well-intentioned. You're about seven years old minister after the five-octobaric changes. Do you not feel at least part of the responsibility for this disastrous situation on Serbia's roads? They changed a little bit you, little Mr. Mrkonjic. The Democratic Party did not participate much in this. It's just amazing that whenever there's a problem, all the responsibility is transferred to the DS in this assembly. I ask you again, do you feel part of the responsibility for this state, and our paths are catastrophic and as you can see, among the worst countries, we are in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27306	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27307	Dear Mr. National Assembly President Dr. Stefanovic, dear Mr. Ilic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the debate on this Chinese loan, I must remind that the People's Republic of China is a strategic partner of the Republic of Serbia, that it is a good thing that we are bringing both economic and economic co-operation with one of the world's largest forces. Unfortunately, the bad message is that this government has been unable to appoint an ambassador to Beijing for more than a year and a half. I guess it's waiting for the new rising star, shining in the tabloid sky, to finish that diplomatic academy, and we're going to get that obstacle to co-operation with China to finally overcome it. How are we looking for a Chinese loan without being able to appoint an ambassador to China? You know how they feel about us? Like a non-serious country. Speaking of deadlines for highway construction, Serbian citizens see it best. In this country, the deadlines for highway construction are moving faster than the badgers on the highway. There is one legality – the closer the elections are, the greater the length of the highway that will be made and the shorter the deadline in which the highway will be built. It becomes a model of behavior, I'm not going to say just for the government's mandate, it's happened in previous governments. Unfortunately, we boast that we have built 33km of highway and 10km of regional road, arguing that the European average is 50km. I will only give a few statistical indicators to allow Serbian citizens to see what the real truth is: the Republic of Croatia, our western neighbours, built a 580km highway in 11 years; Albanians built 300km in just five years. If we're going to compare with them, that's 60 kilometers in a year. Even Kosovo and Metohija managed to build a 40km highway. But the truth is, in Belgrade, it was built in four years, as one of the best mayors in Belgrade's history, Dragan Gilas, thousands of kilometers. You laughing, I must tell you to laugh at yourselves. Secondly, you're not just incapable of speaking, you seem incompetent and silent. Shut up and listen to what I'm saying. In Belgrade, for the mandate of one of the best mayors in Belgrade's history, thousands of kilometers of roads and paved streets were built, 580km of them brand-new. I'll be pleased that your temporarily larger ones just wash those streets, not patch the holes, because they won't be, everything's done in quality, just to wash them, just to clean them up, to replace the lamps on the bandits. If you succeed, I'll tell you that you're not bad at that temporary council, but not nearly as good as the city administration. Don't make me accept your shame as my dick. Here, Germans. Do you know how many miles of highways they have? They have 13,000 miles of highways or 40,000 miles of highways. They make 260 kilometers of highways a year, for those who have calculated themselves a little bit, or 800 km of highways. Do you know how many Swiss people work? Do you want me to read that too? I say again, don't let us compare ourselves to these developed economic forces, let's look up to our neighbours in the immediate environment, to arrive at least that average of Croatia that made as many rules as it did, that at least we're better than Albania that's done 60 km. I'll show you where you belong. Sampling a slice is one very unpleasant thing for people who work in the construction of highways. Because when some people from Europe come and want to see what the quality of the highway is, when they want to see what the quality of what they give money for, they come and make a slice and measure how thick it is in the centimeters of the paved layer of asphalt, that stuffed layer. Just so you know, if only one kilometer of asphalt is stolen, that's 100,000 euros per mile. For those of you who want to do this in the parameters of agricultural production, that's 60 of your largest milk cows. So, whoever steals one centimeter of asphalt on the highway, he could for that money he stole to catch 60 milk cows by the ular, from house to house – good afternoon, here, we don't know what to do with this cow, keep her safe, milk her, let her ride with you, we give you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, better to give you that cow than to steal the asphalt on the highway. Unfortunately, the first one to steal a centimeter, let it wonder what his responsibility is for car accidents. Don't just tell me we're stealing from the opposition right now. Don't tell me this is like building a skadra on the paint. What you are wise and worthy to build during the day, this villa Ravijoyla breaks down at night. There are some pretty representatives of the opposition here like Villa Ravijoyla, but we don't steal asphalt, we don't destroy what you don't do. You're doing it yourself. The problem of building the Shkodra on the Bojana ended by walling one of the negligents into a building. They left a little window to see left and right and then the road ended. The first to steal asphalt until you're so walled you won't come to your senses. There's no helping you here. I'm going back to this contract. We're not against contracts and highways, so we understand each other right away. You have the support, Mr. Ilic, to finish the highway. I'm half a Krushevian and half a Cachanian. I'm glad to take the highway to Chuck's, get there in an hour and a half. I love it when I leave Kruševac for Belgrade for a session of the Assembly or Belgrade for Kruševac after the assembly session to arrive in an hour and 45 minutes. I also want my colleague Bojana Bozanić to reach Užica in two and a half hours, so that you can reach Cačka in an hour and a half and faster. It will be possible to travel for an hour if there is no traffic on the way out of Belgrade as it will be taken over by some incompetent government and likely to be a crowd on the way out. I'm telling you again, there are a few problems here in this contract. You first announced that the construction of this section of the highway will begin in April, and in April, it will not be then in May, then in May that it will be in June, so in June you moved to August, and in August for September. It's like the Marathons. In April, you said money. In January, you said money in April. In April, you said money by June. There's no money. You watch a lot of these movies and a lot of you are either broken by bad associations or bad movies. I also heard some discussions about road construction. I heard you gave us a lecture on the principle that we made our paths on principle like when we build a house and we took the money, and we didn't secure the crying. I love it when they try to teach me something, the lectures are held by those who left behind the last term of broken infrastructure, broken bridges, mutilated roads, destroyed railway infrastructure. I love when the ones I'm talking about now are recognized in my discussion, but I'm sorry about Serbia, for leaving Serbia in this condition. If you have such unmarked qualities, who prevented you from displaying them in 1998, in 1999, in 2000? Who bothered you to show your luxuriant talent? Do you know how many times I traveled to Belgrade in 2000? Seven hours, when you were in power. Do you have any idea how far I've gone to Chuck from Belgrade? Five hours. I drove for four hours and changed the tires twice a half hour. If I'd known I was swimming with Moravia, if I'd been president of the Water polo Union, I might have gotten there faster, but I was on my way to the car. I know you don't know how to build a house. I know you know from the hearth to build a firehouse. I know, it's easy to sell someone else's house for nothing. But again, I ask you, tell me, who has prevented you from being rudely impertinent in 1999 and 2000? Who is this rude man who held your hand that you couldn't work? Name him, so we all know who he is. You've heard these days that the world's greatest illusionists are coming to Serbia. There's going to be a big show in "Arena". They come to Serbia to learn from real masters. They're not coming to show something to our citizens. They come to learn from the master, to see how a trick is done with a magic styrofoam, with ballots that disappear, the hour appears, to see planes, trucks, roads, bridges, there's credit, but there's no road. These illusionists are little children for today's magicians in power. To conclude, there will be great acts behind you that will repay generations and even greater misdeeds. Yesterday I said, it's better to hide it than to make a bad confession. Take a look at the City of Belgrade, there are no "pomekin's villages". When you say - Bridge on Ada, bring a camera to take pictures, because that bridge exists, it's not made by stealth technology. Some can only be photographed on that bridge. But I'm undermining you again, someone's got to be in this country working. We've been working in this country and what we've done can be seen. Here, Dragan Gilas when he is not mayor, when the DS doesn't run Belgrade, no one will load the bridge to take him home. It remains to serve the citizens of Serbia and to teach you how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27308	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right to Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Babic, come in. You have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, if someone can't swim, as president of the Water polo Union, can jump as president of the basketball union of Serbia, so he can choose the discipline that is better for him and that is better for him. So far I've heard, and technically, I'm a graduate engineer, I've heard of stealth technology, I've heard of stealth invisible planes. True, the Serbian Army unfortunately does not have them at this time, but I have not heard of stealth roads before, and that is no less than 1,000km of stealth roads in Belgrade. Here, Mr. Minister, you're a very agile man, I'd like you to organize one tour of the open buses, these beautiful buses here with an open tour, so let's see, let's count those 1,000 kilometers in Belgrade that were built. True, I did count something in Belgrade, but I counted 1,000 holes and it's going from the Assembly to the Voždovec, going out to the highway, 1000 blast holes on Belgrade's asphalt, with canvass, no sheets, I'm not getting into it. What was seen in Belgrade was indeed done by King Alexander's Boulevard. Done, as someone said, the most capable, best, pre-calculated value and the lowest value for these works in King Alexander's Buelvar is a billion and 100 million dinars. Do you have any idea how much of the mayor's most capable he's arranged for? For a billion and 650 million dinars. Is ability measured that way? Is the ability to measure hundreds of millions of dinars of Belgrade citizens leaving in an unknown direction, not to be the most capable? I doubt that, but I don't doubt the richest mayor in the world. That's right. With another boulevard of King Alexander, with another reconstruction of Pozeška Street, with some more buses for the GSP, with another bridge, with some more trams, certainly getting richer and richer, fortunately for the citizens of Belgrade's former and unrepeated mayor Dragan Gilas. After all, why is it that someone who is so capable of works that are so well done on Požega Street, please, Mr. Minister, that you examine this and give an answer, which is why neither the works on Požega Street nor King Alexander's Boulevard had anyone to receive? Why hasn't anyone received these papers? What are these people afraid of if everything is done by law? Is there anything not done, something may not be stretched? You know, 1,000 kilometers is 1,000 kilometers, so it's measured. You can't freak out. And the closest associates, the ones who should do it, have no confidence. Why would the citizens of Belgrade, why would the people of Vozdovac have confidence, if the closest associates, for something that has been subscribed to 550 million dinars, have confidence to receive works that have been extended, and God also strained and high? As for the roads in Serbia, Mr. Minister, to speak without wearing pink glasses, when driving a car we don't wear pink glasses, the road infrastructure in Serbia is not satisfactory. For many years, we've been talking about corridors for decades, we're full of mouths of roads, and we can't get this job done. There's the Corridor 10 we need. Unfinished. Grumpy, we know it's a problem. We know that the contractors have only now entered the works of the Gredile ravine. Corridor 11 - heart, you're right. Moravia corridor is necessary. I come from that area, as well as distinguished colleagues who also come from the region, the most important value of Corridor is the safety of people who drive, who travel through these roads, our citizens, citizens of Serbia, but also citizens of other countries who go the way of Europe or from Europe to their homes, the road of the Middle East and the Middle East. It's not on a satisfactory level. It's not at a satisfactory level just as the previous colleague stopped, when he was supposed to say that for 12 years we were in power, for 12 years we had the opportunity to do 50 kilometers, 52, 40 on average, so one of those corridors would be finished. If 12 years had been done, we would have had another Corridor 10. But he's gone. He went to the boulevard of King Alexander, without handover, went to Poželjk, without handover. Went to things like that. That's inadmissible. That's scandalous. And then point your finger and say -- this government is the worst government in the world, because it hasn't done a single corridor, nothing's finished. That's scandalous. Many times so far, the question of continuity has been mentioned in this National Assembly. There are many tragedies in politics in multi-parliamentary politics over the past 20, 22 years. Politics changed, parties changed, and then to prove how much better our policy was, we gave up everything that the predecessors did and went in the opposite direction. No corridor, not once, and you're right, Mr. Minister, when you said you couldn't be done in the term of a government. It can't and what it means is that something that's been started, that we're saying now, well, we're giving up, now we're going to do corridor 33, and then we're going to do it all over again. In Serbia, however, those who lay a cornerstone are pictured of them when they lay the foundation of the hand, put that picture in the window somewhere to remind, but remember, and you are Mr. Minister of Construction, those who have finished the roads are remembered. They are remembered and remembered, and when the celebrations are celebrated, so it is said, well, it was done at that time, this and that minister brought it to us, this and that government brought it to us. You know it best. For this reason, I am sure that whoever set up the cornerstone, and many times they are painted alongside some of the badgers on Corridor 11, so these badgers didn't even spend the night on Corridor, but were returned or transferred to another construction site or for some other painting for another campaign, this government will be remembered, and may it be an honor to us also to the MPs. It's an honor to support such a government that will corridors, which will work, which will build roads and end. What is the reason and why so few roads were made in the previous period? Why, Mr. Minister, from the establishment of, say, the Corridor of Serbia to the formation of a new Serbian government, is only 70m euros withdrawn? For what? What wasn't it about? What was it about? Credits were received, and the contractors couldn't get into possession, they couldn't get into the works because the expropriation wasn't finished. How many pens were paid? How much damage was paid? Why, Mr. Minister, until one year ago, 194 are the damages filed by performers who are not in possession or due to various other matters? Because of the irresponsibility. In the last year, that number has been reduced to one digit, to seven. That's how you do it if you do it responsibly. If it's not done responsibly, then it's done by Požeska, which no one has to accept, or it's done by King Alexander's Boulevard for 550 million dinars more. We don't want to work and think that way. At this point, Mr. Minister, and you know it better than I do, in Corridor 10 and 11, the esteemed colleagues, are active and are working on 223 construction sites. Last year, before the takeover, before the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was 67. So there were 67 construction sites a year, unlike the current 223. You're four times better and more active in making corridors and travel infrastructures than the former government. Little more to end, to once put an end to the corridors, to once put an end to safe traffic in Serbia, to develop. Who will come to Vrnjaka Banja, if it took me four and a half hours to reach Ljubljana the other day, and to my Vrnjaka Banja tonight I need at least two and a half hours, and three times the short share? Who's going to come to hotels, who's going to develop tourism? You need to move faster. You're four times better. You measured yourself this way that you're four times better, but you have to do more. It must be stronger, Mr. Minister. I'm sure you'll be able to do that. Someone's trying to make some other math. So 52 kilometers is the European average, 52 kilometers is as much as the highways in Europe in all countries, so it is divided and then the average is known. In some more, in some less, but 52 kilometers is the average. For now in Serbia, it is 44.1km, of which is 33.2 highways and 10.9 regional roads. I would just like to ask those who are trying to devastate that value – how are you not ashamed that you are sorry that Serbia is developing? How are you not sorry and how you are not ashamed to talk – no, you do not need it? How are you not ashamed to close your eyes in front of a built one? How are you not ashamed that the first flight in the fleet of the 10 Airbus A319s, which landed at the Belgrade airport, presented you as the landing of the sparrow? Do you think people will believe you? Do you think that's good? I'm not saying everything's good in our society. No, he can do it faster and he can do it better. I'm impatient, we don't have time to waste, we don't have time to wait. But to close my eyes to something that's been done, what's been done, what's been done, I don't want to, and I don't want to open my eyes to King Alexander's Boulevard of 550 million overpaid and with the one where the handover wasn't done because no one wanted to receive something that wasn't done in what was both in the project and in the plan, and I don't know what it was all about. That is why, because of these four times more sites, because of the 44km of road that has been made so far, because of the sea of other indicators that compared to the previous table 94 is a harmful requirement and only seven in this year, and I want you to reduce it, because of all of it, with great satisfaction and the SNS parliamentary group and I will personally vote for this law, but we will also vote for Serbia in which, when the roads are finished to hand over, to cut the tape, to make people happy, not to hide what the price is, not to be subscribed, as Bulevar of King Alexander has paid for 550 million dinars, for such things to become an ugly past in Serbia and Belgrade. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27310	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27311	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, at first, I wanted to advertise only a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Members 106, but I am now forced to advertise alongside Members 106 and Article 107. When it comes to Article 106, I know the speaker can only talk about the agenda point and I know it's a big complex when you lose the election to Dragan Gilas, so you keep talking about him. No problem when you lose to Dragan Gilas, even if your name is Alexander Vukic. Twice - twice. That should be pride. It's like I was running with Yussain Bolt at 100 meters, so I lost, so I'm mad that I lost. I'm proud to have run and lost. Article 107. You know, when you talk about shame, when some people aren't ashamed to change the Patriarchy and turn it into a parking lot for NATO tanks, I'm not ashamed to say to a nine-year-old plane that's nine years old, even if it was freshly painted. I'm not ashamed to say it, and I'm not ashamed to see that when I see it, I tell the citizens of Serbia that that's it. No one can convince me it's a new plane. An old plane, a nine-year-old, just painted, with a new inscription, and I'm supposed to believe it's some new plane. I don't believe it, and I'm not ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27312	Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27313	I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm advertising an article. 103 and 104. I don't know why my predecessor didn't ask for a replica, given that it wasn't article 103 that the MP was supposed to name a member who was injured and explain what that injury was. Obviously it wasn't done and a pure replica was used. Mr. Chairman, I have no objection to favouring the opposition in such a way, but given the state of affairs last night, when they left the session at nothing, I think that we will, from time to time, deny them the excessive excess of the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that from time to time, they may be distracted in a fine and cultural way that the time for hurting the Rules of Procedures is used exclusively for that. The only thing I can agree with them is that it may be a violation of dignity when we're told to come and take pictures on the Ada bridge. I'd say not just the bridge on Ada, but that the whole party of the former regime was like an art academy. We could only take pictures with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27314	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27315	Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in this debate, which is extremely important for Serbia. Exactly that there were deadlines for some to end this earlier, but it couldn't, you know why, because of a crisis that was caused by an empty register, a cash register that someone had emptied and had nothing to do with, just debts. You know it was owed to travel companies by nine billion when this government came to power. You don't have to talk about who's doing what now, without the projects and in what way. I don't want to raise that question, but they're still, unfortunately, working. The other day I'm listening to a politician who says - I'm going to work out of spite, I don't need permission. Okay, you do, but you can't do it like that anymore. After the new law on planning and construction, it won't be possible. Therefore, as far as anyone has done knows Serbia and knows Serbia's citizens. Who made roads to every house in every city, and in every alley, who is in the Bath, who is in the Divchibars, in Golia, who has worked all things are known. Whoever did the bypass around Belgrade, and it's been cut off there, you know that. Who did a project on the Winch Bridge that should have been completed by now and the ring around Belgrade, and that's known. Why didn't those successful people end it? I made the bypass as a minister, and someone else opened it after 20 days. I made the bypass as a minister, and someone else opened it after 20 days. I did the Aval Tower, someone else opened it after a month. You asked me if I was ashamed? Someone asked if I felt guilty? Yes, I feel guilty for doing 4,500km of roads during my previous mandates in Serbia. There are documents about it. Ask every peasant who made his way. In every town, ask: Who made the way for you in the cities, the street. I didn't take home one inch, let alone anything and I won't take it. I've spoken here in Parliament and given my word for 38 months that I'm going to finish this job on Corridor 11 and it's going to be over, gentlemen. Thank you for your cooperation. Thank you to the Serbian President who has been involved in the business since the beginning and assisted in his behalf, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister and the first vice president who actively participated in the implementation of this project. Do you think I'm happy as a minister because I signed two of the biggest investments in Serbia's history - South Stream, NIS and Corridor 11. Don't ask me, and this is what this government does. If you want to see the construction site, come see, you can take a picture and take yours and take them there. Therefore, do not use this for political promotions, for empty stories should or should not be used. Corridor 11 needs Serbia, we need the people, we need to travel as humans, not stand in the way of hours, as soon as an accident happens, go home, arrive at night, have some obligations and arrive at midnight and arrive in the morning and listen to who died, who died, etc. Don't let that happen. In the voting day, whoever thinks Serbia should support this proposal. There's no politics here. This is life. This is what the people need. That's what the citizens are asking us to do. We can't go out in front of them no matter what political options, if we don't do this. We're talking Croats made. They did, and they're in charge, and now they're offering all the highways under the concession that someone's paying them off. We're doing as much as we can, and now this government is doing the best we can, but we're not letting us jeopardize the state and its interests, so that what we can do and we can pay and return and cover. So I don't want to hear stories now, it's these, and it's not them. Don't worry about who stole the centimetre. We know who stole it. We know that some people killed each other at the beginning of the term of office, there were as many dead as you wanted about this, around these infrastructure investments. It was fired from all the weapons. Unfortunately, the highest officials of the state were also killed. You know what happened when most of the investments were invested, built and worked in Serbia. In the muddy, the best fish were hunted. In 2004, I came and started doing it. The Messenger asked me, "What have you done?" I tell him – from the bridge of Freedom, to the Borova Glava, to the tunnel in Ovčar Banja, to the reconstruction of the Siscevac ravine, to the complete reconstruction, to the Macedonian border, complete reconstruction to the Croatian border, complete reconstruction to the Romanian border, to Vrsac, complete reconstruction to Subotica, complete reconstruction to Kikinda. I can count you two days and two nights, Mr. MP, I'm proud. In every city when I go everyone says – thank you. I didn't take any of it. I didn't take anything. My nobody has a company that deals with it, and I haven't done it myself. Let one tell me in Serbia that I took a hundred euros from one performer. Here, I'm resigning immediately and going home. So let's not tell empty stories through a serious investment. This government is a serious government and it does a serious job. He does what must be done to the people and what is our duty to do. We promised it at the beginning of the term of office, and we must end it and you must support us. We come before you to file your accounts. I promised you how long it would end. The wound when it started, I said 38 months, it'll be less than 30, and you guys take a ride with me whenever you want. There are a lot of investments, and Serbia is on its way. Don't tell stories now, don't do anything. If now one state is currently working on infrastructure facilities, three billion euros in projects. Mr. Babic spoke only on corridors, on the roads of 200, almost 300 construction sites when everything was collected. All that in one small Serbia and big construction sites. What do you want more people for? It's got to go even faster. Thank you to all those who help us. Thank you to the embassies of the countries that helped to implement these projects, the governments of the countries that understood us. If you were in China with the president of Serbia, to see how we were received by the president of China and to see how he promised to make this happen as soon as possible, maybe he did. He said: this must be done immediately and money must be found and everything you need, you have China's help both in energy and in infrastructure wherever you need it. So let's use these friendships, these good intentions and the World Bank and the European banks and China and Russia, let's not spit right away. Today I'm listening to the MPs just spit on that South Stream. People, let's be happy, we're becoming a gas distribution centre, not in the Balkans of Southeast Europe. All main corridors cross in Serbia, and we're spittin' it now. My people, I know how much we've negotiated and how much we've fought for it to be here. The reconstruction of the refinery, the reconstruction of all of what's been arranged, the increase in fuel consumption. It's true that there's a lot of work going on in Germany, but I repeat, 56% of gasoline is decommissioned from gas excises and built into roads, and we're gone. Retirement must be given, they must be paid to civil servants. What do you think our government, that our officials wouldn't want to invest in roads like in other countries, but they can't because they won't accept retirement there. But this has to be done in some other way. We find this way, and you know better than to find a better solution. We wouldn't bother you, nobody bothered you, you could do whatever you wanted. I wasn't president of the Committee on Infrastructure of Serbia, someone else was and hitched off all these investments. The result was zero. Don't spit on those who started doing this. Thank you so much for your cooperation, all the Members of the United States. Thank you to all the associates who participated in these projects being realized. Let us be happy that we will quickly issue local permits and construction permits and that we will quickly build and work. It's good for all of us, and let's not be jealous of some who have found some key how it can be solved, and those who haven't solved it now learn, so maybe they should do it sometime. Let them see how it's done. Watching, learning, recording, specializing, it's not forbidden, it's normal. Therefore, I welcome you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Support this ratification of both agreements. It's important for this beautiful Serbia of ours, because our paths are really bad. We don't have travel infrastructure. This is the 21st century, and we have to do it and finish it. Thanks again, everybody. Thank you, everyone who participated in these discussions, and I expect to begin our work as soon as possible. Maybe our friends will be happy to start them next month, because they told us – you're not this year, you'll give it next year, we'll wait for you. That's what they said. We know you have to do this. Let's not criticize, attack and tell stories now. They told us -- you don't suddenly have 10m euros, but give me two, so you'll give a surplus over the year the rest. It's all some friends can do. Here, the other day the World Bank came, which supports all our projects and who say – we will help as much as we can. Once again, thank you, and I hope that you will support these ratifications and that we will make Serbia's citizens happy with good projects and fast work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27316	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint and unique search. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint and uniform search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 31, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39 and 40 of the agenda, as well as the list of candidates referred to in point 36 of the agenda, and before opening a joint and uniform search, I will remind you that it is appropriate to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of speakers. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint and uniform search: the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the position of the Public Prosecutor at the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, the Proposal for a decision on the selection of Deputy Citizens' Protectors, the Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Educational Council, the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Educational Council, the List of candidates for the selection of a member of the National Educational Council of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the international parliamentary institutions, the Proposal for a decision to select two members of the National Council for Higher Education, the Proposal for a Decision amending the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the International Parliamentary Institutions, the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Group of the Assembly. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the MP, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know it's Friday night, that tomorrow's a big holiday, Đurdzic, and I know it's a tennis match, but I just want to talk about one of the points, or the topics that are in this united debate, which is the choice of deputy citizens' protectors. In any state that wants to be legal and democratic, one of the most important institutions is the Civil Protection Institution and it is equally important for both the state and its institutions, as is important for citizens. Citizens are represented by the Protector of citizens from institutions and defends their endangered human rights and that is one quality, one protection for citizens to have their representative who defends their human rights for free, and on the other hand, institutions should also know that their work is being monitored, that their work is being measured and that they are being forced to work both legally and in accordance with all high standards of human rights. It is true that according to the law, the Guardian of Citizens cannot order or forbid, his recommendations do not have executive power and are not binding, but in Serbia, the Protector has built his authority, particularly on the argumentable, truly well-founded, legally-based facts and things, and on the other hand, he has built his authority on the fact that he has not taken care of the political belongings of the government that was present at the moment, he has passed from 2007 to today three practical governments, he has remained politically unskilled, which is a great quality and is not a common case and it is not easy to achieve in these areas where many of our public followers are very quick to forget whose political option they have advocated, so after several years of other governments, so the defenses are second and forget that people look at them and remember them. I've already said that the recommendations of the Protector of Citizens don't have a binding character, but they have an impact on the whole system. Both governments and institutions and we MPs here when we see the recommendation of the Citizens' Protector on some document, when we see what it is that he recommends, what we should do here when it comes to some laws, bill proposals, or when it comes to the work of some institutions, where people have complained, it has another note for us, and we are very careful when we read it. When I say this, I must say that every year there is a report by the Guardians of Citizens who is and how professionally done, which is very extensive and which really represents a document for the reputation of many institutions that send us different reports in different forms, but this is a report that can really be an example. When we get that report, we see clearly what the state of human rights is in Serbia, but we also see those institutions that do not do their job properly, which are slow, which are arrogantly treating citizens, who do not work for the benefit of citizens and do not do what they should do in accordance with the law. I also have to say what is in favour of this authority built by the Citizens' Protector, which is that the number of citizens who address it from year to year is growing and is really a problem that the Citizens' Protector, when we have in mind how many citizens each time have a 15% or 25% increase in number of people, can be covered by these so many needs of citizens and will not be able to respond to his task. It is a great danger and we have spoken here several times as MPs and asked governments, various governments to make sure that they provide the number of associates they asked for, to provide the space in which they will work, and that the Citizens' Protector can indeed work for the benefit of the citizens of this country. In recent years, the Citizens' Protector, and of course, when I say so, stands behind him his team which is highly professional, a team that has built both teamwork and a very professional relationship in its work, has the energy and the will to do the job. It is no small thing when the choice of the Citizens' Protectors, that part of the agenda, is found, and all MPs and both sides of the hall and MPs of the ruling coalition and MPs of the opposition vote the Citizens' Protector, then it is another authority, another big thing when both of us have the same kind of trust in what he did. That's why today when there's a choice of deputies on the agenda, four deputy citizens' protectors, I have to say a few things, because it seems to me that I and my associates have to say, because here we have a proposal for the Protector of Citizens, and he legally has the right to choose his associates, and there's nothing controversial about it. Four names are in front of us, and some of these people have worked already on his team and have proven themselves in some areas for which they have been very active and very high-quality in the past years, but there are also those biographies that I am truly surprised that they have found themselves here, where in biographies the big deal and the recommendation is that she was the head of JP PTT's housing group "Serbia" is the head of the office of the general director of Telekom's telecommunications company, that she participated in an international conference. For me, these are not adequate recommendations, when I look at other biographies in which truly brilliant recommendations, which can represent the pride of both us MPs and the institution of the Protector of Citizens. I am speaking from the position of someone who has dealt with children's rights in the Committee on the Rights of the Child and who has collaborated with a deputy for this area, although under our law there is no direct authority of certain deputies and the Protector of the Citizens has the right to designate a person who will deal with a particular area. From the position of someone who was active in the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I have to say a few things that concern me, and I am concerned about the fact that in front of all of us, including the Committee, there is a report on the achievement of the general measures of applying the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Serbia. So, one very serious document that has been made by international institutions and which provides for seven basic priorities in its functioning – reducing child poverty, quality education for all children, better health for all children, improving the situation and rights of children with developmental disorders, protecting children without parental ageing, protecting children from abuse, neglect, exploitation and violence, strengthening the country's capacity to solve children's problems. A very serious document, with very serious competencies and with very serious affairs that the state must also do, after all, to do to improve the rights of children in our country. I'm also speaking from the position of someone who's been in recent years, of course I'm not talking about the state of the state of the country for these years and a half days since this government, I'm talking about the state of children's rights, and I'm talking about the past periods and reports of citizens' protectors having a lot of problems when it comes to children's rights, poverty, inability to treat children, the Protector of citizens was very active when it comes to these books, yesterday we had a law, a final exam, an affair which at the end of the school year has shaken all of Serbia, problems with inclusion, problems with violence and peer violence against children, problems of children without parental ageing, data protection about children. These are all very important things that the Protector of the citizens, or his deputy, has dealt with during this past period and has done so in a very high quality and professional manner. I can only praise what was done. My concern is that among these candidates, who are offered here, I don't see anyone who's dealt with this matter in the past, I don't see anyone who could be involved in this matter, and I don't even know why there's no one on that list who's worked professionally for so many years. For me, that's a problem, because in the past, when we talked about the Citizens' Protector's Report, we talked about the fact that it might be necessary to think that there is a special protector for children's rights. That's when we said it was something that might be for richer societies. Although when I say that, let's say the experience of Croatia that has the protectors of children's rights, although it is not much richer than we are, but it has achieved it. Then we all realized that we weren't economically strong enough to build new institutions and that it's good to try to do what we have to do best, and then it turns out that we have one man who's going to deal with children's rights. But the problem was that by law it was not entirely defined to name such a man, name and last name, who would do the job. For me, one more thing remains unclear that is said and cannot be clarified, which is a letter from 40 NGOs who have referred to the Guardian of Citizens, where they may be looking for similar explanations. I haven't seen a letter anywhere, I just know it exists. It would be good if we all got that as information. I thought Mr. Jankovic would be here today to make it clear, because it seems to me that it's not good for anyone, that this choice is being shadowed, and I'm very sorry that I'm experiencing it as a shadow. I wish I could get answers so I could define my vote in the direction of whether we should vote or not to vote for what was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-15-0.u27318	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search. We're working on Monday at 10.00 hours.
