ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24709	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 85 MPs, or at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Jadranka Joksimovic, Meho Omerović, Dragan Sutanovac, Igor Bečić, Miroljub Stojčić, Nenad Constantinović, Ivan Andrić, Jelena Travar Miljevic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the session to be attended by the chairman of the motion, Miroljub Tomic, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We continue to work on a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 13 to 20 of the agenda. Given that the list of speakers has been exhausted, only the time left for authorised representatives and presidents of parliamentary groups and, of course, the Proposer. Do any of those in this category who haven't used time want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. You've got six minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24710	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable High Council representative of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the DS MPs during yesterday's debate pointed to the fact that the choice for the most important functions in the judiciary came at a time when the situation in the judiciary wasn't even great. On the contrary, we have found that there are no more serious shifts in the handling of the situation in the judiciary, that objects are piling up, that religion in the rule of law is getting smaller, that things are getting old and that the government has not done enough in its domain. I would say that she has done very little to correct the situation in the judiciary, especially given the threat of judicial independence, judicial authorities, the work of the prosecution, which we have reports from the European Commission, especially when it comes to tabloding legal procedures in the area of trial through the tabloids, where the tabloids have taken over the role of the prosecution, the judiciary, while even the highest state officials are reducing the role, i.e. the judicial authority is being threatened by the executive authority. We also pointed out the inconsistencies in proposing candidates because we found that some candidates, despite the fact that in their biography they also had very infamous episodes with an obsolescence of the type "Ilarion", proposed for the highest judicial functions. By the way, we also mentioned the fact that during this government, the case of "Yugoscanik" has become obsolete. On the other hand, we are told in an explanation that the court has given its support to the president, who proposed him to be President of the Cassation Court. On the other hand, in the case of an administrative court, we have a situation that for the President of the Administrative Court, a judge who has received absolutely the smallest number of votes among his colleagues is proposed. Here we have mixed principles and in this situation in the judiciary, which my colleague Srdjan Mikovic spoke of, where we are choosing the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad in a few days, because, in the meantime, a bill of law has arrived from the executive authority that will cancel the election, so we have a situation that none of the judges from Novi Sad have reported to the President of the Court of Appeal. They probably knew it was a waste of their business and that we now, apart from the fact that we're choosing the president for seven days, we're choosing a judge who doesn't come from that area at all, he doesn't know his colleagues, he doesn't know the situation in the judiciary, etc. Of course, in the meantime, we've also received a series of information from lawyers, from judges about the situation in the judiciary, so we've been informed that no analysis of the effects of the work of individual judges is being done, that we don't know how many judges have pending cases, that we know nothing about their speed of work, and that based on that they can't say and evaluate, or any judge to stop the judge's function, as it says in the law. We have learned, perhaps it is only part of the criticism, that the Judicial Academy still provides an opportunity for inequality in the choice of judges, i.e. that professional associates who have been working in courts for years are in an unequal position in relation to those who complete the academy, i.e. that course and that, in this way, practically creates the possibility of nepotism and some other negative things that can disrupt the independence of the judiciary. On the other hand, the Law on a litigation procedure, we have information, is quite difficult to apply and comes to accumulation and objects... (President: Time. ) In this context, the DSS believes that this is only a segment of one large and large content that will not contribute to improving the situation in the judiciary and that is why we will decide in the voting day how to vote according to individual proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24711	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure who wants a word? No, I don't. ) Does Mr. Tomic want a word? Here, just insert the card, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24712	President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I closely followed your discussion yesterday and today in this House, and I can say that I am very pleased that in the discussions of most MPs, the concepts of activities and objectives that the High Council of the Judiciary is dealing with on a daily basis. Namely, here are often mentioned concepts such as – the expertise of the judge, the efficiency, the urgency of the judiciary, the better results, and I can tell you that these are the things that the High Council of the Judiciary deals with and discusses on a daily basis, whenever there are general issues concerning the situation in the judiciary, at any time we are discussing proposals for the highest functions in the judiciary, as was the case in this case. What I'm saying is that we, Judges, may not be the best rhetoricalists from this assembly pay phone, such as yourself, the honourable MPs, which is perfectly logical, given that you have a comprehensive and professional discussion of various topics in the Assembly every day, which I have convinced myself in these two days. However, I will try in the shortest lines to look at some of the topics that have been discussed and discussed by individual MPs, as well as to answer certain questions that have been raised here. First of all, I think it is clear that we all agreed that it is very important that the High Council of Justice put the election of the President of the Court on the agenda, in order to end the position of the acting judge in our judiciary. I assure you that the High Council of the Judiciary will continue to hold competitions for the Presidents of the Courts in the remaining courts and will act in these competitions, on the one hand, as we will call for competitions to fill the vacancy seats and that we will try, as we have tried this time to do, to bring to court the highest quality, most professional and professional associates, i.e. judicial assistants, i.e. those who apply for those places, and fulfil the law of the intended conditions, and to assess that they are good candidates. In fact, it is also an answer to one of the questions raised here – whether it is necessary to decide on this proposal, in the context of the future law on the seat and network of courts, given possibly some of the provisions that are mentioned to be made. I must remind you, and that is what I said in the opening statement, that the High Council of the Judiciary contest for the election of the President of the Court was announced in May 2013, that the situation in the Serbian judiciary is such that in all courts the acting presidents are. And I don't need to remind you that we, like the High Council, are in debt, but that this Parliament is also obliged to follow the Constitution and the existing and applicable legal regulations, not the legal regulations that will be possible and when it will be passed. Someone here mentioned, by the MPs, that it was necessary for the proposed candidates to look at the results of the work, as well as to see what kind of programme that candidates for the highest functions in the Serbian judiciary would be and in that case be responsible for those highest functions. I suppose that in the heat of the story and in the heat of the discussion, we ignored or overheard one part of my opening presentation, so I will repeat it in the shortest lines in two sentences, which refers to the part of the presentation when I said that the High Council of the Judiciary on 25 June 2013 made a decision on the education of the Commission for the selection of the President of the Court, which looked at the results of the work of all the candidates, the number of decisions made, the quality of work, the urgency and expertise, as well as the opinion of the General Session of Judges for that candidate, which is just one of the parameters for determining whether any of the candidates will be proposed or not. We also saw, and they were obliged to submit all the candidates reported, and the work programme in which they presented their vision of the problems in the functioning of the court for which they applied, the way they overcame and ideas to improve the work of that court. It is one of the important questions when it comes to the presidents of the court. It is not disputed that someone would be elected president of the court, especially for the highest courts in the Republic of Serbia, that he must be professional, that he must be up-to-date, that he must be responsible and have the best results of work, but I also believe that we will all agree that he must have certain organisational skills, that he can manage the judiciary successfully and manage one court. It was also raised, as one of the questions, that all candidates needed to be seen here in the Assembly. I believe we all agree that it would still be too much to have all the candidates here today and yesterday with you. But I repeat again, once again, the Commission of the High Council of the Judiciary has held a conversation with all the candidates registered for the Presidents of the Court and with more than 200 candidates for the election of judges who are first elected to office. You will agree that it was not a small number of judges and not a small job for the Commission of the High Council of the judiciary, and that the Commission would directly gain an impression of expertise, eloquence, in addition to the results of the work, the opinion of the College, and I assure you that such a practice will also be in the future when it comes to the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. It's a matter of transparency. Here in the National Assembly, a question of transparency has been asked several times, and that is one of the questions, I can safely tell you, which the High Council deals with on a daily basis. In addition, the issue of transparency is mentioned as one of the important issues and in the strategy that you adopted here in the National Assembly, and this is a question that goes through all the principles essential for the implementation of the National Strategy for the Development of Justice in the coming period and action plan. I can tell you that the High Council of the Judiciary, by way of this principle, announced a public competition, which was our legal obligation, then, that the High Council of the Judiciary had conducted interviews with all candidates, that these interviews were public, then that the entire public of Serbia was familiar with this contest, both professional and other public, then that the candidates who applied and applied to certain important places in the Serbian judiciary, as well as other places related to the judicial calls, were made publicly, at colleges, in general sessions, that they were being encouraged about these candidates, but also about other candidates, both the legal chambers and those from which the candidates, who were not from the ranks of judges, were encouraged. I wonder if you've heard of any more transparent competitions and proceedings than this? Once again, I say, that is the way of work and the attitude taken by the High Council of the Judiciary. Once again, I assure you that transparency will be one of the basic principles that we will adhere to as the High Council in our future work, because I believe that we all agree that only from transparent procedures can result in quality and good decisions. One of the MPs here has also asked the question of the adoption and harmonisation of the Law on Judges, the Law on the Judicial Academy and other laws. I don't think it is necessary for you as republican MPs to remind me that there is, as there exists in Serbia, laws are not passed by judges, laws are not passed by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but by you, honourable MPs, and that the courts, or judges, are based on the Constitution and the applicable legal rules. There's someone here behind the assembly pay phone quietly, but he made it clear that the court's work is difficult and responsible. I will now say, because I believe that one part of the public is following me, if this transmission is transmitted by means of media and information, that I am loud and clear saying that the judicial work is difficult and responsible and that we all agree that there is almost no more significant, more responsible and more difficult function than the judge. I wonder if there's anything more important than deciding on human destiny, their rights, their responsibilities, their freedom? Until recently, the judges decided on life and death. When I say so, let's not forget that a recent judge of the county court was in a position to impose a death sentence after a criminal trial. If I said this, then I will certainly say that it is very important that the wearers of this significant function, the judicial functions, be professional, fair, efficient and responsible. Yesterday in the assembly, someone asked what is the number of judges currently working on Serbia's judicial functions? Currently, there are around 2900 judges in Serbia, but I note that there is not a full amount of systematisation, i.e. the total number of necessary judges in all courts. I believe that you will agree, and that is certainly so, that it is one of the most important tasks of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to determine whether these judges are successful and whether they perform their judicial functions well and quality. And not only that, but that those of the highest quality affirmates and proposes for the highest judicial functions and for the highest positions in the Serbian judiciary. But, on the other hand, that those judges, as well as those who have poor work results, who may still not make decisions after a few months and do not work within the timely, time-limited law, establish their responsibility for them in the legally implemented procedure and introduce and revive the principle of responsibility of judges into the Serbian judiciary. The issue of elections, re-elections, non-elections, re-elections, election cancellations, etc. has been mentioned several times here, regarding decisions of the High Council of the judiciary and the issue has been addressed by Serbia for several years. The Serbian Constitutional Court put an end to this the moment it reached its decision to repeal the decisions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We know that the Constitutional Court decisions are such that we all have to respect them. After that, these judges were returned to their duties as judges. This does not mean that all the judges who have been returned, as well as those who have otherwise been chosen, are the best, the most honest, the most professional and the best of quality. That is why the High Council, by sticking to the order given by the Constitutional Court in its decision when it annulled the decision of the High Council of the judiciary, made the difference between these judges, so, for the sake of example, these days, when we decided on the selection of individual judges in several judicial statements, we did not select for these more judicial statements only those judges who were returned on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, but we already saw the overallity of their results, their work, and that is why, considering the concrete work of each individual judge who is now working in Serbia's judicial system, and some of these judges proposed for the highest judicial functions, found as the High Court's advice to work on professional, decent, up-to-quality, capable judges to perform the most important functions in the Serbian judiciary. I'll take this opportunity, take just a few more minutes and say a few more sentences. Just to remind us all that we are expected to adopt a set of judicial laws here in the Assembly, in this House, that a new network of courts is also expected, that the new Code of Criminal Procedure has recently begun. Then, that you as parliament recently adopted a strategy for the development of the judiciary and an action plan for its implementation. I can tell you, as chairman of the Commission for the implementation of the National Strategy for the Development of Justice in the coming period, that I am aware that, before all institutions, one extremely complex, responsible but difficult job is in charge of the implementation of this strategy. What exactly is the strategy's task? The task is to make the judiciary more efficient, to keep it more up-to-date, to be more professional, more transparent, but also more responsible. Don't think that, dealing with these questions that I've raised before, at least for a little while I'm away from the topic that's on the agenda here today. It is on the agenda to deal with the proposal of the High Judicial Council for concrete judges, to elect specific, most important functions in the Serbian judiciary. I have just said this before to show you that the High Council of the judiciary, aware of all these objectives, has just taken account of all the criteria of importance for decision-making, which I have presented to you in advance and cited to you, and has therefore proposed to the head of the Serbian judiciary Dragomir Milojevic, finding this once again, that it is a quality, professional, responsible, up-to-date judge, who as such represents a role model for all judges in Serbia and enjoys their undivided support. But the High Council of the judiciary has also proposed other candidates for these responsible functions, and we hope that thanks to their work, we will succeed in achieving exactly the objectives set out in the strategy adopted by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24713	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 13 to 20 of the agenda. We move on to a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the number and choice of vice-presidents of the National Assembly; a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on points 21, 22 and 23 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the Number and Selection of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly; Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Stefanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24714	Since I see that none of the colleagues consider it appropriate to discuss this very interesting proposal in this assembly, i.e. Change the proposal, we from the DS would like to hear a little more words or some explanation of a move like this. We find it very strange so far, I think, not recorded in practice, I may be mistaken, that the ruling party has both the president and the vice president of the National Assembly. It's possible to do that. The president of the National Assembly has been authorised to propose measures such as this – reducing or increasing the number of vice-presidents. It is also common practice to discuss this previously at the College of MPs' group heads with the president of the assembly. I've been informed that the College will be here at 1:00 today. I don't know if this is a topic. I suppose not, but you'll agree that this is in some sense a new indicator of the functioning of the ruling majority in this assembly. We from the DS would like to hear some answers. Why didn't anyone consult with the heads of parliament? What is the result of the increase in the number of vice presidents? Is there any rational explanation, and I believe it exists? Why is it important that we have another vice president from the same party? Basically, we'd like to have a constructive conversation in that sense, without getting into who the candidate is, since obviously you haven't found fit to inform us yet. We do not see what will be to improve the work of the Assembly by increasing the place for another vice president, in a situation where in this assembly it is quite unclear who is the authority, who is the opposition, I mean except the DS. So, in that constellation, you're the one who makes a proposal like this, i.e. change of decision. Is there something behind all this that is being mentioned here by the towers of the Assembly, which is that there is a certain redistribution of political power and influence in the SNS? After a magnificent rally and a demonstration of love for the party president, do we now have a certain reconstruction, not to say the rodos within your majority? What is certain is that now, if what we are suggesting is true, I am building myself up, we see that Mr Babic, who is not present at the moment, becomes president of the SNS parliamentary group. Mr. Arsic leaves the site, stays in the O.R. for a while, with no clearly defined functional position for himself. If it is true that it will be your candidate, it largely explains the very, very strange processes that are happening with you. It's your right and it's legitimate. But it would be my turn to talk about it in some way openly, since we would like to hear some explanation, which is why the number of vice presidents is increasing, why this is done beyond the consultation, and whether it means, peopleally speaking, the adoption of one of yours, until now, high officials in this Assembly versus another, who may be in a better way, to paint and poetically, sang about the leader. If that is true, we would like to see such injustice done to one of you, which has shown an extremely high degree of professionalism, humanity and construction and which must now be one of the vice presidents. Our fear is at stake. I'm not saying it's true, but I'm afraid and afraid we'll have one seat over here and one vice president over, and basically no one's seriously talked about it, nor have we heard any suggestions. I'm glad Mr. Stefanovic is here. I suppose you'll be able to say something about that. Our questions are quite accurate, and we'd like to hear any answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24715	The president of the Assembly, Nebojsa Stefanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24716	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I understand a set of political issues that my previous speaker referred to and it is his right to, of course, ask such questions on behalf of his party. What's going on here is very simple. The National Assembly is bound by certain decisions that we have committed to in previous meetings, related to the establishment of a Stabilisation and Association Committee, which will be formed soon, I have already directed to all parliamentary groups of memos, but to certain, to say to jobs, which are not only related to European integration, but also to increased activities of the National Assembly in other fields. You see, now we have a much more active committee work. You can see that everything is being transmitted directly and online, and you can see that we have increased the level of activities of the National Assembly, which I am very pleased with. There is an objective need, that through a number of vice-presidents representing the National Assembly, and I am pleased that this is happening in this session quite intensely, that the vice-presidents of the National Assembly play a very important and respected role in this House, we need that number of vice-presidents to increase. This decision, which is before us today, does not prejudge who it will be or from any parliamentary group, because it is not according to the Rules of Procedure. We can only do that in the next step. The decision only increases the number from the five so far, to six vice-presidential places, with the number of vice-presidential seats that were in the previous meeting, so it has happened before, however, there is nothing problematic in that regard. As far as SNS is concerned, I can tell we're fine. Don't worry about us. Some parties can't find it in their third-party preferences, and I know it's a big problem for these parties, but as far as we're concerned, we'll be very nice to deal with all the problems. As far as personnel solutions are concerned, we don't talk about our party's human resources in the National Assembly, we talk about them in party bodies. We have made such decisions much, much earlier, which is consistent with our party's policy. In any case, citizens are here to assess who's better, who's worse, who deserves trust, who doesn't deserve it, and very soon we'll see who the people they citizens think are doing a good job and who they're not. We will have opportunities in different elections, as we had opportunities in different additional, local elections to test the citizens' will. Anyway, I don't think this question is at all questionable. I think it's about one thing that will improve, improve the work of the National Assembly. Of course, I allow other colleagues not to think so, which is why today we can discuss this, in the voting day, to state what we think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24717	Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24718	Mr. Stefanovic, I am sorry that you did not answer the question essentially. If we compare the work of the National Assembly from this year, taking into account the 2012 election year compared to 2011, we have 50% less working hours as the National Assembly, and ask to increase the vice president by one place, that's the first thing. Secondly, I think it's a very good thing that you said that it doesn't prejudge any personality or party membership. We think that's a positive thing you said. The Democratic Party certainly thinks it's counting on another vice president if that's exactly what you said. We will, in that sense, suggest that we have more vice presidents, since you said it doesn't prejudge that it's an SNS. However, it is not so and you know it and I know it, and the citizens of Serbia should know it. It's one of the rodos in your ranks that's due to very strange relationships, deep, that spread in a very negative way. There's no problem with the third one for preference, but there's a problem with finding the third table, since you're playing a three-table preference. That's the difference, you understand. Someone may have a third preference, but you lack more tables because you can't sit on the same table, not because of mass, but because of what you think differently, you act and have different interests. Especially President Nikolic and Mr Vukic. But, as you said, it is your business but at the same time it is a matter of the Republic of Serbia because the consequences are such a strange decision. So, we don't understand, I understand what you said about committees, I think it's okay and it's right, but I don't understand what the size of the work that Mr. Arsenović, Mrs. Comic, has yet to be done in a positive and good way. So, explain to me what they're doing less or not doing enough to increase the number of vice presidents. What is the relationship of power, which is a skill, which is professionalism, which is the expertise that you question for vice presidents that you already have around you? It's a very interesting vision that I think you could explain better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24719	The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24720	So, at no point in time, and I've pointed that out several times in one of the previous sessions, it's not at all that I think that the vice presidents so far have done their job badly. On the contrary, I have publicly praised them many times. I am grateful to these people that, despite most of them belong to the opposition, they have taken part of the burden on their backs, which is part of their job description. That's what I'm grateful for. So, vice presidents of the National Assembly have other obligations. For example, Ms. Comic was invited today to officially become an OSCE observer in Thaci. She has an obligation to escort on behalf of the OSCE to be the controller of these choices, that's an example. So I took this as a positive example of what was happening in the National Assembly. The reputation of the National Assembly is thus increasing. Mrs. Kovac has replaced me in countless situations. I am grateful that Mr. Arsenović, who has done so and at this point more professionally than Mr. Korać, and all the other vice presidents. But since we've increased, although we may, of course, have fewer hours of work on the tide, I think we have a significant number of working hours on boards, a significantly higher number of public hearings, which is essentially excellent preparation for the tide. It's not just about adopting the number of laws, it's not just about the quantity. Many laws have been passed, so we have seen the effects that these laws have left on our society and our economy. Many laws, but people are out of work. Many laws, hundreds of thousands of jobs, and then we can't exactly say that the Assembly was fantastic and fascinating for most Serbian citizens. So I think this job is very important to do. Whether we started processes that are bad or not, I think that the citizens of Vrbasa and the citizens of Zemun made it very clear to people who think they're doing their job well, and who in recent years have brought the destruction of our society and influenced the citizens' lives today. In any case, we will have elections ahead of us, thank God it's a democratic society, so the citizens will be able to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24721	Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to resolve some misunderstandings regarding the SNS and its parliamentary club. When the main SNS board decided who would be president of the parliamentary club, a decision was made and the rotation of the heads of the parliamentary club was carried out. So I don't see any reason to feel hurt or unhappy. So, I was prepared for this situation ever since I became head of the Parliament Club. It was an honor to be head of the SNS Parliament Club. I am honored to be vice president of the SNS Parliament Club, and it would be my honor to be the most ordinary SNS MP. So I don't need anyone to foster me, I'm happy with what the party gave me, and I'm seeing it as a big moral satisfaction for all of what we did while we were making a party, which, let me say, we've been going through one media goal in that past period. So I'd ask you at least that part of the discussion if I were with something unsatisfactory, to avoid it at all is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24723	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24724	I have to admit, I'm much more pleased with Mr. Arsic's explanation. Mr. Arsic, it's an honor, your tone has spoken a thousand words, and I think you've hit the point. Thank you for this detailed display, very much to say, almost graphically showing how every party soldier should stand up to what's happening to him. You know how much we personally appreciate you, and we believe that if it comes to this rode, that in a personal sense, it cannot possibly be problematic. What we're interested in, I'm not asking you, because you said what you had, but I'm asking most of who you represented here, which is hard to determine - what makes it bigger by one place? We didn't get a very precise answer from Mr. Stefanovic except in the work of the board, I repeat. For what? If there's any mistrust with people, we've heard that there's no such thing as a high-level evaluation of their work. So, if this tone and this view are not in the distance, the citizens of Serbia explain what is actually going on. That you put one man away and now you have to put him in one place, where we as DS have an opinion on who's better, who's worse, I think you can see it from my exposure, but that's secondary to this situation. We believe that only for these reasons, for nothing else to increase the number of vice presidents, it seems difficult to explain and little contrary to all those announced austerity measures, even when spoken at gatherings that last 10 days and cost hundreds of thousands of euros, such as your meetings. I think it's something I'm assuming to cause controversy, General, but I have to say I'd like to not from Mr. Arsic, but from someone else to hear a clear explanation, why are you doing it, and why are you doing it with this man? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24725	The president of the Assembly, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24726	I just have to say, as far as the costs are concerned, this measure is almost not going to cause any additional costs for the National Assembly that you will see in the future. As far as the gatherings are concerned, all the gatherings we hold have been paid for by our money that we have in accordance with the law. We haven't acquired 38 billion dinars in policy over the past 10 years, our officials haven't built fairies around Dedinjo, that's what some others have done. I'm sure you'll recognize yourself. I'm sure they'll call to defend their 38 billion, because 38 billion are the reason they entered politics. That's the problem. The Serbian Progressive Party is not and will not deal with it, we will account for the citizens of Serbia and we will not get rich in this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24727	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. In dialogue, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24728	I don't know, Mr. Stefanovic, why this anxiety, when you and I both know it, we've measured very accurately with a corner of our eye and looked in our direction, so you in some way tried to stick to DS, what you've been doing for months, something that hasn't stood up, something that doesn't match the truth, something that's immeasurable, and something that you're trying to criminalize DS, which won't work. Because it's not right for billions to talk about those who spend billions of Serbian citizens in a completely wrong way and it's not right for billions to talk about those who are from your ranks, but rather economically and financially turn Serbia black. It's your party for five years. I don't know why you're reacting like that now. I'm talking to you completely in a decent way, I don't know why you're nervous, I don't mention you personally, I don't think I'm attacking you. It seems that you have all received a Peltzer by those T-shirts "Vučići" from Golia, "Vučići" from Chaira, "Vučići from the Assembly, "Vučići from Novi Sad", "Vučići from Serbia", "Vučići" from Serbia, "Vučići" from "Vučići" from "Vučići" and "Vučići" from "Caira", "Vučići" won't stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24729	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24730	Well, it's clear to me that there's a lot of anxiety that Alexander Vukic is not a criminal, because he didn't earn 38 billion in politics, because he didn't start companies that started with a million, two, three, and then in the period when they came to power, to the APR four billion a year, five billion, six billion, 38 billion. Explain to the people how Dragan Gilas can make 38 billion in nine years of power? It's a shame for this country. The money you pulled was towed by private companies. They started with 10,000 euros when they were not in power, ending with billions and millions. That's the problem with this country. Well, that's why she's nervous. That's why it's nervous that when the election results come, so when 60% and 70% of people come out, these results say that SNS has 40% or 50% of the people who support them, and it hurts. We're trying to get this country back on track, to consolidate, not to single out billions and throw money at something that doesn't stand in any way. These are the data from the APR, these are not SNS data. We'll read you the APR data what the APR says about every company in a row, and we don't have a problem with seeing, after all, those people should be proud if they did it in accordance with the law, so let's see, but somehow none of them had anything until they started to deal with politics in this country, and then they started fairies, cars and billions. How come they had nothing in 2000 or 2001, and millions and billions start in 2003 and 2004? That's the problem, because money has all come from the moment that they started to deal with power and when they started to be the most significant officials in the country, and that's the problem of this society, that's the problem we have to face and see how to solve these problems, and of course, I hope that at least some of the people in your ranks are ashamed that individuals in your ranks have become very rich people, while Serbia has become very poor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24731	Mr. Stefanovic, I'll give you my word, just to warn you, the debate is now heading towards the agenda. I ask you to finish with the replica, I'll give you the replica, and we end up with the replica, with a clearly authorized representative known to be right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24732	I'm sorry that the debate went wrong, but I still have to say it's a decision in your groups. In fact, we asked nicely why they're increasing the number of vice presidents. We mentioned unnecessary expenses in the year of saving and blunt knives, and we got insults and lies. You didn't react to that, and you should have. So, in order to avoid this situation, you must interrupt Mr Stefanovic, since he brings out complete untrueness, or at the end of the day, you must stop Mr Stefanovic. Of the 38,000,000,000 something they're talking about today in Serbia, which they've completely impoverished by 15 months of government, they're talking about people who've been measuring their success by now billions of people who have kidnapped Serbian citizens and they're telling people about companies, asking someone about companies, I'm asking you how is possible, Mr Stefanovic that the company where Mr Vukic worked until the election, which is called "Profijler", and everyone in Serbia knows that there's traffic less than 42.5 times today. Today is 42 times more traffic than before the election. How is that possible, Mr. Stefanovic? Do you want to tell you in Serbia what your people are doing? Do you want to talk about Mikic? Do you want to talk about Railways where your director asks workers to come to your rally and about other public enterprises if he doesn't come, he will suffer the consequences. That's the Serbia you're making. Let it go, you, 40%. These 40% of yours are getting smaller every day, and it's nice for us to have you living in an illusion, only you hit the helium of your balloons, the citizens of Serbia have nothing of it, except your empty promises by attacking the opposition, instead of doing something in this country for a change.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24733	The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24734	Unfortunately, if something had been done from 2008 to 2012, we wouldn't have been in such a difficult situation, it's sad. Of course, everything I've said is absolutely correct, every number and every data. The company Darekt Media had a turnover of 38.000,000,000 dinars from 2003 to 2012. Look at the APR site. It's just one company, we have other companies... (Janko Veselinović, from the place: It is not a topic. ) Of course, when mentioned, the theme can be Alexander Vukic, but it cannot be Dragan Gilas. So, what is of course important for this debate, that we go back to what is the course of the debate. During the debate, it says that we have increased Parliament's work, I think that this is justified in relation to what we heard today, that the number of vice-presidential seats is increasing, of course in line with the proportional strength of parliamentary groups, we will sit down and discuss this, it is not taboo topic. So, I hope the debate goes back into frames, but of course whenever you want to cross any arguments, we're ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24735	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) The word is Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24736	Thank you. I will not deal with the question of who spent how many billion, whether or not he spent, whether he would spend, etc., but when my colleague from DS Borislav Stefanovic says that no one but DS is interested in participating in the debate, then it is simply not true. There are many of us and countless times we are just proof that we want to participate in the debate, but we can't because of the many replicas that SNS and DS go into all the time and then the other parliamentary groups of course remain hostages, and that I signed up for the word, of course. I will not, of course, comment on the statement – it is only the DS opposition and no one else; you will read all of the transcripts of such a strange view of the individual groups present here, especially those who come from the opposition, but well, someone is experiencing it. As far as the proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the number and choice of vice-presidents of the National Assembly is concerned, I think that this is the topic to be dealt with today, it is not the subject either Vukic, Đilas, or "Darekt Media", or anyone, when it comes to the agenda, I will be happy to talk about these topics as well. As far as the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly is concerned, I think that, as already said, they started with Mrs. Comic and all the others were very responsible for their work. As for the increase in the number of the National Assembly, yes, it is true that we have seen in some indications that there is an increase in the work of the National Assembly, and one of these indicators is, say, the adopted assembly budget, so as members, and I am one of the members of the Administrative Committee, we were able to see what it says. Yes, it is true, there is an increase in work and an increase in volume and a taxation of all that the National Assembly will do in the coming period. Furthermore, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to bring into any context this increase in the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly, I'm not going to personalize or talk about whether someone will, of course, be their own political position to keep this opportunity to myself, but I think it's very wrong when it's said that it's actually unfounded now that the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly is increasing, when we actually begin with the austerity measures. I just don't think that's true, and if you ask me what's wrong, then I'll say it very transparently -- I think that number only increases for a certain period, and that in some future period we and the National Assembly will still have five vice presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24737	Thank you. Since none of the authorized representatives are answering for a word anymore, we're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24738	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's to all those who may not be in enough time to discuss what we are discussing today, I will repeat. So the topic of today's agenda is the request of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to increase the number of vice-presidential seats from five to six. In this country where people are living increasingly difficult to figure out how to make ends meet, in a country where my colleague Dusan Milisavljevic spoke about yesterday, a state of health, in which there are no drugs, in which machines do not work the most significant in hospitals, in a country where there is a very bad situation in the area of education, where teachers, doctors are threatened, etc., that their salaries will be reduced even though they remain in Serbia, we increase the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly and you say that will cost nothing. It's just not possible, Mr. President. We know that vice presidents have a higher salary than MPs, and we know that they have some benefits and everything else. On the other hand, it's a bad message that it won't cost anything. You build up the number of people who will sit behind you right now, you build up what bothers the people most, and these are the people who spend and don't earn. What do you need six vice presidents for, Mr. President? I know the elections are scheduled in Belgrade, i.e. that they will be called and that you will have additional obligations. It won't be easy for you to be there and here. That's no problem, but Serbian citizens don't need to feel it on their skin. What's this new vice president gonna do? Where's he gonna sit? Will his role be to ring for the amendments or proposals of the law that your MPs should vote for, so that it doesn't happen as last time that you don't put the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, so the students went to a new school year, not knowing whether they would be on the budget or not, so they and their families, until the other day, lived in suspense about it because it wasn't the one who would be ringing? Will the role of this vice president be to ring? You're saying that whoever's the vice president is about to make a decision. My colleague Stefanovic said in his own time – something is coming to us that it will be someone from the SNS. It's not until the next few days that you're gonna deny us, so let's see if we're wrong. From all this that results from the fact that the lines of your parliamentary club are rocking, that you should satisfy some of the wishes and hopes of some MPs, you are putting on the agenda a proposal to amend the Decision on the number and choice of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is that the most important thing in this country? Was the National Assembly supposed to deal with this issue today, or were we supposed to discuss an amendment to the Law on Legalization, so that people could legalize their facilities as soon as possible, so that millions of people could legalise the houses they were building, could pawn them, could sell them? No, today we are discussing the election of the sixth vice president, probably the first vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He'll probably get some epithet after this, because I'm guessing he'll be the speaker of the Assembly when you're not there for justifiable reasons. When it comes to Mr. Stefanovic, Vrbas, who you mentioned for no reason, I really don't know, in the debate on the election of the sixth vice president of the National Assembly, do you give a new fax to one of your members because you got, in your opinion, good results. Please, it makes no sense that you, from where you are sitting now, remind the chairman of how he will lead the session. (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the scene: I didn't do it, it didn't happen. It didn't happen because a man had his integrity, and you didn't have it when Mr. Wolf was sitting there, so you wouldn't let us discuss it the way we planned. (President: Please do not have a dialogue with each other. We tried to protect your integrity, and I hope you are grateful for it, but do not act like one. Do not accept the bad manners of your vice president, or party president. We cannot support the proposal that the National Assembly has six vice presidents in the next period instead of five. We can't accept the explanation you gave us. We cannot accept that this is the first topic to be addressed by MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We think this is proof that you're saying one thing and the other you're working. We've got a lot of evidence on this so far. You've been talking these days about how Serbia is sick, how it is before collapse, etc. What isn't Mr Krstic here today to show us his spectacular measures to save on Serbian citizens, which country will he save? Why are we not talking about this, but we're talking about how you need six vice presidents to successfully lead the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Why, Mr. President, have you agreed to this arrangement within a party that's probably just being exposed to you? I don't believe that's your personal will. You won't have any air here. I ask you to give up this proposal for those pre-election promises that you made to the citizens, in order to fail to promise, in order to restore the dignity of this Assembly. This assembly won't get more credibility with the people, if word goes out that you're asking to have six vice presidents, to foster your party colleague. Give up this proposal and move on to the next item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24739	The president of the Parliament Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24740	I know that you, Mr. Veselinovic, are the Pajtic current in the DS. It doesn't hurt much when you talk about Gilas. That doesn't interest you very much. You're not the only one in the parliamentary group. These disintegrating processes in your party are of little interest to us. However, when we talk about costs, at one of the next sessions, I will prepare a detailed report on the costs of your National Assembly President, Mr. Dulic, so you will see how many times Mr. Dulic flew a small plane, how much it cost the citizens of Serbia. Only one of his flights cost more than the entire annual salary of the MP. I never got on that little plane, never paid for it, nor did the National Assembly pay for it. When I went somewhere, and I had very modest costs, you can see, I flew through the regular lines of our national carrier. You will see, I will prepare you to see how carefully you have taken care of the costs of the National Assembly when you chaired and when you were able to show in practice what savings are. I'll prepare that for you to be surprised what your expenses are. From your presentation, I expect you or I expected you to give up the vice president's post, your vice president to resign, or not to propose, given that it increases costs. You don't want any part of it. You don't want to take part in an increase in the cost of citizens. Then you're one moral party that doesn't need a vice president, because that increases the cost of citizens, and what makes it an extra cost. Give it up and say it – we will make our contribution to reducing costs. You know it's not like that. One vice-president takes such a small pay gap from the pay of MPs and makes a big contribution. What does that mean? That we don't need a Stabilisation and Association Committee? Should we give up the board? We do not want to form a committee that we need to better coordinate and monitor Serbia's EU accession process, because it will cause some new session that will have some costs, where people will use electricity, turn on computers and then cause new costs. We don't need a congregation to make that sense. Let's cancel it, 'cause it's costing. If we were to settle down to that logic, because that's the way you're trying, you're accusing us of demagogy, and you're saying that the biggest cost for the National Assembly is having one more vice president. I think it's a terrible bad message to the citizens of Serbia, and then we don't really need the National Assembly. If she's not going to work at some full capacity, then what do we need the National Assembly for? We'd better not have it. I remember another one, I don't know what to call him, who used to say that the congregation, the elections, that kind of thing cost money. That's not good. The expression democracy is the National Assembly. That's good for the opposition. The opposition has a window through the National Assembly in public speaking. This is the place where the opposition, even in today's direct transmission, can send messages and say the best he can. Of course, through a dynamic work, if we want the MPs to be able to boast that they have had serious work, that they are doing something in this National Assembly, that the citizens of Serbia are benefiting, then we have to do a lot more to increase the reputation, but also how to see these work results better. I think it's a much more important thing than that. I understand that you're trying to make some political point and through this story of a vice president's seat more, which we're going to return to that number of vice presidents that you had in the previous session and in the one before that. I'm sorry you didn't show your savings then and bring it down to two vice presidents. No, you had six vice presidents at the time, and that was fine with you. Now you resent us for that, where we do so so that at the moment when the work of the National Assembly is increasing, as other colleagues pointed out, what we are trying to enable this job to be done at minimum cost, and the budget of the National Assembly, which is smaller in the parliamentary section than it was before, shows that all of us MPs were also responsible for the austerity measures and that we have shown that we want to follow it. Of course we have to cut back on our travels. Of course we need to reduce everything that does not benefit Serbia, but of course we need to keep our work at the level that citizens are asking us to do. Then it would be pointless if the Assembly existed otherwise. What you said about ringing, it was actually your invention. You're the one who introduced the bell. It wasn't in some previous stimuli. You had a vice president to ring and he did his job very well, so you always knew what to vote for. It wasn't in some previous synergy, but from where you had the president of the assembly, ringing has become a regular thing. As for the Law on Students, I have to tell you that we put it on the agenda when you said, the question is, would he still be adopted today, since you can see that we don't have a day to vote yet? We put him on an emergency session, much earlier he came to the agenda and the students got what they required as soon as possible. As for the amendments to the Law on Legalization, if we hadn't entered this controversy on a subject that doesn't deserve this much attention, I couldn't agree more, perhaps these amendments would already be on the agenda. When we talk about legalisation, I must remind you that by the decision of your president, then the mayor of Belgrade, that the new statute of the city of Belgrade of 2008 set up a Secretariat for Legalisation, which, for example, in Belgrade has completely stiffed the legalisation process. You have nearly 400,000 items standing in the Department of Legalization. Those 400,000 objects almost don't move. They get rid of each other at the slowest possible pace. Full centralisation of Belgrade has been done, since you mentioned legalisation, so let me tell you. I would be very happy if it hadn't happened and that we could have talked about legalisation in Belgrade and other parts of Serbia more quickly and efficiently. Of course, no one has ever stopped you from doing that in the last five years. You said today in a debate about the owner of the "Yugoscan". He's not out of date now, since it started three months ago. How come when you were in power it wasn't over? What did you let go of for five years? These are the things that are problematic. I'm saying again, I know Belgrade doesn't hit you because you're Pajtic's current, it doesn't touch you too much. Anyway, don't worry about the SNS and let's do this congregation thing, it's best for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24741	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24742	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I really thank you for giving us the opportunity to make sure of the costs incurred by the previous assembly, especially the assembly chaired by Mr. Oliver Dulic. I believe it'll be full of optical cables. I'm going to give you one piece of information, and I'm going to take it out in each of the following lines, and I'm going to bring out every such information, and it's about the costs that were made in the previous period. The Administrative Board and the Assembly appoint two members at the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Your Administrative Board, your majority, gentlemen, has increased the compensation of these people from a parliamentary allowance of 30,000 dinars to six average plans in Serbia. Six average salaries were worth that one DS lawyer, who you have delegated to the High Council of the judiciary and to the State's Major Prosecutors. Four such men took nine million and 860,000 dinars. At the moment we began to lead this assembly in a responsible, homely manner, when we returned that compensation to 30,000 dinars, to a parliamentary supplement, you know, respected colleagues, what did these people do? They resigned. Were they here for work, for the state, for the system, for society or for their pockets? You gave 10 million dinars. For what? How? Do you know how many examples there are? The further you oppose this one thing, as the president said, this is not an increase but a return to the level and number of vice-presidential positions that have been in previous councils and that in the current democratic and parliamentary practice was a matter of a gentlemen's agreement, not of controversy, just keep going. You don't give a shit about the vice president of the assembly, you don't give a shit about the sixth place that's part of the tradition. (President: Time.) ) You are in pain of SNS support in Serbian society. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24743	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24744	I've reported to the Rules of Procedure earlier when it comes to the integrity of anyone, especially the chairman or president of the Assembly, because the issue of integrity should not be mentioned here in this way. It has nothing to do with that. If you want to talk about the integrity of individuals, then let's agree that all those who are head of the parliamentary clubs, chairman of the board, all of them are getting paid and don't spread the demagogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24745	You didn't tell me what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24746	Article 107. Then let's cut everybody's salary, and they're not just at the Parliament Club one or the other, but in everything. If we're not talking about everyone the same way, it's pure demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24747	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24748	Dear President of the National Assembly, today is the topic of your proposal to increase the number of vice presidents from five to six. This is the theme of today's session. Today's topic isn't power in the DS. I'm myself personally and such are members of the DS. No one puts any instructions in our head, in which way we will discuss and how we will vote. When we discussed yesterday the choice of Judges of the President of the Courts, we did not get any instructions on this matter from the party, but we consulted with the profession, with people who understand the area and we discussed it that way. We didn't get phone messages, and we read them better and faster, and we answered the word. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you should answer our question – why six vice presidents? Is this just for the reason that you will devote yourself to the election campaign in Belgrade in the coming period? What's the message that we're asking our vice president to resign so you can choose another vice president? What is the message – and what is the missing six vice presidents? Come on, let's all be vice presidents, you'll be president, and we'll all be vice presidents and then increase efficiency, because we'll all be able to get bigger salaries, because we'll all be able to travel, because we'll all be able to represent and replace you when you're not here. We want an answer to a single topic that today is part of the agenda – why do you increase the number of vice presidents in a difficult situation for the country, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24749	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24750	Otherwise, my view is that the number of MPs is too high in the National Assembly, and I think the number of vice presidents is affecting the increase in work, to say the intensity of work we have. I have cited examples where vice presidents of the National Assembly are engaged in various other activities because the job of the vice president is not just to sit here. The job of the vice president is to represent the National Assembly. Many of them are in meetings with different delegations. I have already cited international participation, and I think that these are important things for the National Assembly. So neither the president's job nor the vice president is just sitting here to chair the session. I think that's something we all need to accept. Of course, I agree that all MPs have the right to give up their wages. I think that all those who talk about saving the most, the best step is to show that they give up their salaries and work trial for Serbian citizens and that's totally fine if we're going to talk in such a way as to cut costs. Of course, I leave every MP at will to choose how they will represent the National Assembly. First of all, I hope that all colleagues will work on the well-being of Serbian citizens, will engage in the work, will attend meetings and committee meetings and will contribute to these committees. I can say that I am very pleased with the committee that I chair. I am not talking about myself, but about the people who are engaged in this committee, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, because everyone on that committee, and your deputy president, Mrs. Lucic, are very committed and very well working on this very important topic. I can say that it is one of the few committees where we have never had a vote that was not unanimous on the subject of which, and I am proud that we have thus demonstrated, when the interests of children, the interests of Serbian citizens are in some way the most exposed, that we are completely complex and that there are no party divisions and belongings. I really don't see too much dust rising around this topic. I think, as you said yourself, we have more important things to do today. We also have a session of the College, and much more important than that are amendments to the Law on Legalization. The sooner we finish this topic, which obviously doesn't lead to something that will contribute to increasing the reputation of the National Assembly or anything good for our society, the sooner we can focus on these topics. In that direction, I ask you all to move forward. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24751	Mr. Veselinović, I don't see a basis for replication. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24752	Dear Chairman, I think the president of the National Assembly has violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 107. I believe it is the invitation of the Members of the People to give up their wages for the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Most of the people's messengers who sit in the National Assembly are only receiving, and they and their families live out of this only income. In this way, the implicit president of the National Assembly says that MPs have money like Frattini or Stros-Kahn so that they can give up their salaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24753	Mr. Veselinović, please don't. It can't be concluded that way. I won't let you talk about it anymore. It's really not right for us to bend that much now. I allow you to achieve a kind of political struggle here, but the distortion of facts, which are obvious, cannot be allowed and I ask you to complete your advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24754	Chairman, I don't think you're right. You gave your word to Mr. Babic, who's answering again. I don't know what's up, does the Rules of Procedure or don't know what?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24755	Mr. Veselinović, you're wrong again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24756	They were talking past the subject, and you didn't give me the chance to finish. I said I'd only answer it once more because I think the speaker of the assembly spoke more out of the question than he spoke about the subject. We asked a very simple question – which is why six, not five vice presidents, and then we got napkins of insult and talk off topic. We ask you to remind us when we are speaking outside the subject, but please do not allow the ruling, primarily SNS MPs, to use every discussion on the story of the previous government. That's not the point. Today is the topic of selecting the number of vice presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24757	I'll answer you. First, I gave my word to Mr. Babic because you directly mentioned their MP club in an offensive way. That's why I rightly gave the line. Why didn't I give you the right to a replica? Just for these reasons you just said. The speaker of the assembly gave his reasons why he is going to propose the sixth vice president of the assembly. You have the right to accept it or not to accept it. It's your right, but I don't see the point of explanation, because, in my understanding, he's made it quite clear enough why he's proposing to elect another vice president and that's why I didn't give you the right to a replica. Please continue to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, let us finish. I think we're really politicizing this problem. The word is Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24758	I just want to say in one sentence that this exhibit was just a confirmation. I purposely wanted to talk about pay, to provoke this reaction, because it's the same level of story as the number of vice presidents. If we're talking about an increase for one vice president and those few thousand dinars being the biggest financial problem for the Serbian Parliament, then it's legitimate and a story about giving up the salary. If it's not one, it's not the other. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24759	I don't see a basis for replication, Mr. Stefanovic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: There is no now, there was just a moment ago basis. I don't even see the basis for a moment ago. I don't see the basis for giving you the right to a replica, no matter how much you're head of the Parliament Club. We're going back to work. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24760	Mr President, why is there sensitivity to such proposals, and why is the totally inappropriate reaction of the mandated proposalor, i.e. the president of the assembly and the parliamentary group, whose views are actually the president of the Assembly most often represented? I think the experience we've had so far is changing the law because of a solution to certain personnel. The need for the whole law to change to put a man somewhere gives us the right to say that this amendment that is proposed would not be fundamentally controversial, because it is primarily in line with the law that the President of the Assembly proposes vice presidents. Even the number of vice-presidential seats that have been the usual so far are not exceeded here. So it can't be said here that the President of the Assembly has broken the law any way, but we here point to another thing. We point out that the institution is being misused to satisfy certain needs of the human beings and that is what violates the credibility of the institution. So far, we've been doing this at the College every time we've talked about the number of vice-presidential positions in agreement with the heads of Parliament's clubs. Every time we agreed on which parliamentary group will have as many vice-presidential seats, we also agreed with the heads of parliament because it is not the vice-president of the assembly, it is the vice-president of the assembly. In that sense, each parliamentary group has the right to agree on how many vice-presidents we will have and what their duties will be, why the number of vice-presidents is increasing, who the vice-president could be and from which party he should be. So, very soon, we will see if the warnings that we have made here, that it is a solution to a single staff issue by the largest political party in the ruling coalition, was indeed the reason that the president, without agreement for the heads of the parliamentary clubs, suggested such a decision. The MP who criticises the ruling coalition cannot be insulted or warned because he points to something that the government or the ruling coalition is doing badly. The only problem here is that the biggest party in the ruling coalition is still acting as if it were the opposition. So the only thing she's doing is criticizing the previous government. It absolutely has no single argument to defend its own moves, its own views to prove that there is some result in the areas we indicate that there is no result or that the result is bad. She only deals exclusively with criticism of the opposition. Gentlemen, you forget that both the knife and the cake are in your hands. It is up to you how they will live in this land; it is up to you what institutions will be built in this land. When the president of the 10th Assembly comes forward seven times as a supporter of his political party, it is the collapse of the National Assembly's institution. The president of the assembly is the president of all and he shouldn't be wearing a party badge. He should be a neutral party figure defending the integrity of the Assembly. Unfortunately, for the first time, I think that never before has any president of the assembly abused his presidency as the current president does, indeed, by putting himself as spokeswoman for his political party. It's inadmissible and that's not how an institution is built. You boast that Parliament today looks more civilized than ever. Yes, of course, because what you've been doing in the past doesn't occur to us to do. So what you did when you were the opposition pulling microphones, watering, shooting shoes, we don't want to do. We are creating the credibility of this institution by respecting each other, by respecting this institution, and therefore Mr. President of the Assembly, as the author of this act, I am telling you - you have made a mistake, because you have not agreed with the heads of Parliament clubs, you have made a mistake, because you have not made the argument that you are now giving us in good time. I don't think it's a waste of being honest if you're already thanking yourself, and even saying it – we need to have one vice president because we need a vice president, because the president who's from our party is terribly busy and can't do all these jobs and we simply need to have a vice president from our party. We'd understand that. We would fully understand, because we really understand that you have a lot of work to do and that the vice president of the Assembly who should replace you most often in running a session and doing many other jobs, you have a need to be a man with whom you will be able to make co-operation without any dilemma and without any backup, we would even understand that. But experience teaches us that as you have done at a small door so far, by committing legal violence, we now say – this, even though you are doing it for one man, you should have done it openly and told the heads of Parliament clubs – we need to have our vice president of the Assembly because we need someone to do the job when our president of the Assembly isn't here. Perhaps it would free you from your obligation to speak as a SNS subpar. Perhaps then you could speak as president of the assembly. We would support you in this because this would help build the credibility of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24761	The president of the Parliament Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24762	Only for the truth to say that in early September we had a session of the College. At that session of the College, this item was on the agenda and we could discuss this point, but no one from your parliamentary group called to comment on this issue. For this we have a record from the College session Mr. Pavlovic was present to confirm it. We respected the form. At the session of the College, the point was taken out. People were introduced a month before she was formally on the agenda today and had the opportunity to think about it. Do you want to speak politically now, I respect that, you have the right. In no way do I feel that this is not in line with parliamentary procedures. It's kind of totally fine. I also agree on the role, if we so observe, if the president is to be a neutral political figure and if he is elected as one of the MPs on the list representing the programme and the officials of his party, then it should be in that logic that the strongest parliamentary group has one vice-presidential seat where this one of the vice-presidents will be a political figure representing a parliamentary group in line with the number of MPs. If that's how we look at it. I don't see it again, if we're looking at it anyway, I don't understand the essence of the objection to increasing the number of MPs that way. Then those arguments are lost in that way. Either there's a need for it to be like that or it doesn't exist. If there is no then it is justified that the president of the National Assembly step forward politically, and if it is not justified then there is a need for one of the vice-presidents to come from the largest parliamentary group. If that's how we're gonna look. Either way, you have to define which argument you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24763	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, though I don't see on what grounds, but I will tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24764	I'm sorry, he was answering me, and I think he misunderstood me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24765	We don't want to argue, I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24766	So it doesn't matter what I think or what you think. What matters is what parliamentary democratic practice is. The experience of countries that have a long tradition in this, in all parliaments, the president of parliament is a neutral party figure. So he can never, nor step forward in the name of his party. That's what you've got the head of the Parliament Club and he's representing party interests. It's not about what I think you should be doing. What is important is that what you say you want to do, which is building democratic institutions, first of all I think is important building Parliament, you are responsible for not doing what violates the credibility of the institution. The way you set yourself violates the credibility of the institution and you take this as a well-intentioned remark. I believe you too want to build this institution as a strong institution. If you really want to, then listen and look at the experiences of other countries and you will immediately take down the party badge and you will never stop for a party speaker to speak for the party again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24767	Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (Zoran Babic, from the post: as head of the largest parliamentary group. ) Mrs. Hope Kolundji spoke exclusively to the president. Please give up the replica. You have no basis for replication. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24769	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly Dr. Stefanovic, here's for starters, I didn't intend to start like this, but it's a congregation practice and procedure to read a letter from my favorite reading, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 104. - President and Vice President of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall elect a president and one or more vice-presidents of the National Assembly by majority of the votes of all MPs. The president of the National Assembly shall represent the National Assembly, convene its meetings, chair them and carry out other tasks determined by the Constitution, the Law, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm absolutely confident, Mr. Stefanovic, that you didn't need me to read this. You know your powers, as all citizens of Serbia know what the president of the National Assembly is. It is after the President of the Republic the second most important political function in Serbia. Much more important than the Prime Minister and how much more important than the first Deputy Prime Minister. The president of the National Assembly is one of the most powerful political figures and institutions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as long as this Constitution applies. Now a little bit about this election of the new vice president. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, first of all Serbian citizens, if someone thought the obstruction of parliamentary work by the governing party of the ruling coalition was the worst thing that happened to this parliament, today the ruling party is denying it. There are worse things. Today we testify that in this parliament we are attending a political reckoning, because Parliament today has turned into a ring in which in the fight for power and influence are calculated, in the left corner, Tomislav Nikolic with a decimated parliamentary club and, in the right corner, Aleksandar Vukic with the rest of his parliamentary club. It's only a matter of conflict within the SNS, which, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24770	Please, sir, don't take care of the other party, take care of yours or take care of the agenda. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24771	You didn't understand. It wouldn't touch me at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24772	As if I didn't understand, everyone understood. Whether there's a conflict in the SNS or not, it's not a topic of discussion and it's none of your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24773	We all know there is. It's not a subject at all, I agree. That's not the point. We're all aware that it exists. But you ask each other a much more important question. Now that we have finally demystified that what was in Arena was neither a job fair nor a landing, but a pre-election rally, the question arises -- why do we choose the vice president of the Assembly when extraordinary parliamentary elections are announced?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24774	Mr. Millyvoy, please listen to me. Either you stick to the agenda, or I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24775	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, let me ask a question like this: have you ever, Mr Arsenovic, as one of the oldest MPs in this assembly, heard that a new vice president is being elected before the end of the term of the assembly? At the very end of this assembly's term, we choose a new vice president. I don't think that's necessary. I think you sent everyone in Serbia a clear message that Serbia is ahead of the snap parliamentary elections. Is it reasonable that for these two or three months until the emergency parliamentary elections, which will arise from disagreements between you, we choose a new vice president today? I absolutely believe that it is good to choose a vice president of the Assembly who will defend the integrity of the National Assembly, after everything that has happened in this House. I am absolutely convinced, whoever it is, I will not prejudge whether it is Mr. Arsic, Mr. Cvian or anyone else, but I am absolutely convinced that the President of Parliament and the Vice President of the Assembly must defend the dignity of the National Assembly, that whoever chaires the National Assembly should never happen again, whether it will be Mr. Arsic, Cvian or anyone else, that the Minister of Justice in the Assembly threatens the MPs of the DS because they are the truth. If it could never happen in the assembly benches to get one MP up and say – I stole Srdjan Milivojevic's card, because we needed it, we don't have a quorum in the morning at 10.00 o'clock, evil shouldn't, tomorrow I might give a quorum with it. Also, that you should never be accused by MPs in the Serbian Parliament of accusing the MPs, having no arguments to outstretched him, and not wanting to outsmart him, then inventing that he has applied some inappropriate gesture. This undermines the dignity of the National Assembly and requires the president and vice president of the National Assembly to defend the dignity of the National Assembly. I am absolutely confident, if it is Mr Arsic, that he will have a good parliamentary experience, because he has been in parliament for a long time. I know him as a very loyal Tomislav Nikolic, and I believe that he will in a dignified way defend the reputation of the National Assembly. That we never again get the first Deputy Prime Minister to come here and give a lecture on how to run the Assembly. I know you, Mr. Arsenovic, would never allow it. I believe you have one credibility as chairman. Sometimes I disagree with your decisions, but I am absolutely confident that you would not allow it. Of course, there were words here that the previous assembly meeting, and above all the people who led this parliament, did not know what abuses. I'll give you friendly advice. I especially appreciate you, Mr Stefanovic, as well as your loyalty to Mr Vukic and the party who has delegated you to this place. I think that you were still working to build the institution of this parliament, no matter how many times you came forward as a spokesman for the SNS, but I know that your desire to remain behind your presidency with the Serbian Parliament is still an institution that has been built, in which both the opposition and the government will be able to communicate and that you always let the debates in parliament run, because here is where we face political ideas. This is not a market, this is the highest parliamentary home, we represent citizens, and of course, when we do not have another way to present our political ideas and programmes for which we stand, we cross the political spear in this House. But I'll give you some really friendly advice. Don't ever use arguments again - that's what you did, what you did in the previous session, that's what you invented, that's what you implemented, that's what you introduced into congregation practice. You won the election with the claim that you're better than us, that you're more valuable. Then don't call on those you claimed were worse than you and their practice. Because whenever you try to copy us, it doesn't work. You tried that with a European idea. It can't be someone who's been pushing for the European idea for 23 years to be worse than someone who's only three years on that idea and on that matter. It's not natural. So don't ever do that. That's what I'm saying as a friend, as a member of Parliament. Say, there were irregularities in the last term, but I will explain to you how we have now predicted the budget of the Serbian Parliament, so in two days, the Administrative Committee reduced the budget of the Republic of Parliament by 300 million. 300 million in two days! No one asked a question here in this room if you did it by heart, one way or another. Parliament requires expenses and we should not degrade the institution of parliament by claiming that someone here is deliberately making such or such expenses. It is up to you to take care of yourself, to treat parliament domestically, and we expect you to host this House with professional services, with people who work here. Don't strike any more hunger if you keep seeing the restaurant "The Theme". There's a restaurant called "Theme", it's good to eat there, but don't strike any hunger anymore and don't advertise that restaurant. Styrofoam under the mouse, then at the restaurant to see where it is. Finally, I have to tell you something, I'm taking you back to this story, that we're choosing the vice president of the assembly at the moment when Serbia is preparing for an extraordinary parliamentary election. I find that unnecessary. I'm not going in if it's a split thing inside the SNS or not. I'm not entering your personnel solution. This place belongs to you. I appeal to the future vice president that domestic relations with this institution, respecting the rights of the opposition, respecting the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I'm not going to go into the story of whether your insatiable desire for an even greater power finally overcame you to want another vice president. Are you doing this out of desire to rationalise the work of parliament or do you have some of your staff to reward, so you can't be two more heads of the parliamentary group but I am absolutely convinced that we will finally overcome that unpleasant scene when we didn't know who the head of the SNS parliamentary group is and who replicated the head of other parliamentary parties, that we will now finally know who the head of the SNS parliamentary group is and who is the vice president of parliament. In the end, I appeal to the new future vice president, not to forget his parliamentary experience, not to forget how the opposition used to behave in this house and how the opposition behaves today. To realize what an effort it was to honor parliament and build as an institution that looks like this. So I ask you, when that balloon is isolated from the helium, when the extraordinary parliamentary elections pass, you realize that you will have to hand over power to someone. Then Parliament will leave, whenever it is, you who laugh. God forbid we welcome it, alive and well. But keep in mind that you will have to leave parliament as an institution to some new people. Do not look behind you to say: We have received a household institution, and we leave a mockery. Let it still be the home institution that we've all created together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24776	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24777	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my colleague, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that a member of 107 does not assess at the SNS parliamentary club, which belongs either to Tomislav Nikolic, or to Aleksandra Vukic, because there are also coalition partners who believe in the single policy and Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic and SNS and the sincerity of ideas on their way to the EU. By contrast, we as the Roma Party have no experience as in Vojvodina, where Dusan Petrovic magically deleted from the list of MPs in the Assembly of the Duke of the President of the Roma Party in one election despite the fact that we had a coalition contract. Therefore, I ask you to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24778	Please, I'm obliged to respond to Mr. Shane and then we'll take a break. Mr. Granny, the replica will be later. I have to take a break. I really don't understand that impatience. Mr. Shane, please, in time I warned the speaker and I think in that sense I influenced the speaker not to discuss the other party. Now I'm setting a break of an hour and we're going on at 2:00, with the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, then the replica. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Mr. Rističević, I have a request for you - give up your injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24780	Just to be recorded in the record, I gave up on your application.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24781	Thank you. Since the list of speakers is exhausted, I'm asking if any of the other authorised representatives, who didn't use that right, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique debate on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the National Assembly of Dr Nebojsa Stefanović. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You have time in hand. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, to attend the sittings of Aleksandar Damjanovic, Assistant Minister of Construction and Urbanism, to attend. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoltan Pek, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond, Olgica Batić, Dusan Petrović, Sanja Ceković, Miodrag Djidjdž, Milovan Marković, Nebojša Zelenović, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Mr Bozidar Djurić, Bojan Milivić, Natasa Mićić, Aleksandar Senić, Boris Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Čomić, Mr. Božidar Djelić, Milivojevic, Ivan Jovanovic Milovanovic, Radošaslav Milovanovic, Jovan Mejandžić, Jovana Joksimović, Branka Karavidić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić, Milica Radović, Milica Radović, Milan Lapčević, Radović, Radović, Aleksanda Ša Ša Šaljeljić, Žaljan Šavić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić. You have received the Report of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. On 2 October 2013, MP Neđo Jovanovic, written down, withdrew the amendment to Article 24(3). Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'm sorry, I skipped one item on the agenda. This is the 24th item of the agenda - a proposal for a decision amending a decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the United Regions of Serbia. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You have time in hand. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Suzana Grubjesic, deputy president of the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Now we're going back to the amendment debate. We'll just wait for the minister to come in. We're going back to work. National MP Olgica Batic submitted an amendment to the bill. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24782	Thank you, Chairman. I never thought the government would accept my amendment, this amendment or any of the 35 amendments I submitted. As regards the amendments rejected by the Government, the same amendment states that the amendment is not accepted in the light of the terms - illegal action, I suppose, is not an "illegal action" but is: "illegal construction" and legalisation of objects, terms which have been widely accepted, generally recognised and accepted in Serbia, etc., that I am not reading the whole explanation, so it is a further interesting sentence: "The name of the law proposed is recognizable for citizens, given that there is already a law of similar name that solves the problem of enrolment and registration of property rights on illegal objects". You see, it is already recognised here that there is a law of a similar name and that it actually contributes to the accumulation of the legal problems that exist in our country, and that, in practice, could lead to confusion over the application of these two laws. Otherwise, the text of the law clearly states that it is a special law. In part, I can justify the reasons why the Government rejected this amendment which I have submitted to the text called the law, such as because the term "legalization" is something that has become common or settled in us, so we like to use these widely accepted terms over many years – very interesting and interesting. But what's the point, in fact, of the things that I've submitted the amendment to, and it's only on the text of the title of this bill, it's very clear. So if we look at the countries in our immediate environment, so if we're dealing thoroughly with this matter, and we do a case-by-case cross-law analysis, for example, of ex-SFRJ members, then we see that they carry something different, which means that termologically they differ from the Bill on Legalization of Objects. Interestingly, what objects are not listed and I don't know what objects are thought of as flying objects? I don't know what we're legalizing here. For example, let us take the Republic of Croatia as a fresh EU member. In Croatia, a law that regulates the same matter, and whoever reads the law and conducts a comparative-law analysis, the law is called the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. There's nothing controversial about nomo-technically, so now I don't explain what nomo-technicals is, it's a delicate science, the legal name is very correct. On the other hand, we have some laws in other countries. Like, the law in Montenegro. Interestingly, this substance is regulated by law in Montenegro by the Law on Legalisation of Informal Objects. So you must always specify what you legalize, which objects you legalize – informal, formal, existing, non-existent, illegal, illegal or whatever. For these reasons, I believe that the very name of this bill is contrary to the nomo-technical rules already mentioned, and especially because, as we have already discussed here in principle, it is that its first member actually defines the subject of the name of the law itself and the text itself calls the law contrary to the first member of this bill that defines the subject of the same bill. Of course no one can mutilate, or can legalize something that was illegal at first or, God forbid, to legalize something that is nonexistent. I will remind you, and in principle, I also pointed out that, whether the construction facility has or does not have a building permit, whether or not this same facility has the same permit, it is simply necessary to respect one fact, which is that the concept of legalisation of the buildings, regardless of which category, of which type of objects, simply does not exist in the EU legal legislation, and I think I have repeated it several times. That's what you should have kept in mind, and then I think the declaration of conformity would look a lot different, because there are some things that are being denied there, and there are not certain things that should have been mentioned. If you ask me which one I mean specifically, I mean the 2004 Vienna Declaration. It clearly defines the notion of informal settlements, and what is defined by that Vienna declaration is very decadent in the debate in principle, so for these reasons alone, I think that from nomotechnical rules, from EU standards and everything that has been regulated in fact by EU regulations, which did not take into account when making a declaration of compliance with EU rules, I think the name of the law itself must bear a different name. Besides, if he didn't have to bear a different name, then at least he should have gone in the direction of its precision, so be listed. There should not be a bill on legalisation of objects, but also an indication of which objects are actually legalized by such a single bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24783	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24784	I think this amendment and every next one that I've endured is actually the result of those previous ones that I've submitted and, of course, they're conditioned. I think we could have heard some remarks in the debate, and now I don't know which MP groups they came from, but they were definitely correct, and that's that this bill was supposed to be withdrawn from the procedure and it was necessary to approach some new bill that we were discussing today. In this amendment, which is once again rejected as any of the 35 amendments I have submitted, the government is again giving its reasons and I must express my gratitude for the government's efforts to make every amendment that has refused me at least some explanation and this time more detailed. So I thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for coming to meet me like this. It is interesting that some other parliamentary groups are also called upon when the amendment refuses to be accepted for the reason that mine has been rejected. To return to the amendment I submitted to this Article 1. In fact, the motion is also in the principle of debate, and we can see this from the reasons of the bill itself, stated that the constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the Law on Legalisation was retained in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that nothing is disputed in Article 97 of points 7), 12) and 17, which found that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides certain relations in the organisation and in the use of space, property and bond relations, etc., but since neither property nor bonds are subject to the Law on legalisation, I will remain here. I also have to refer to that fact, in fact, to everything I've already said and the amendment that has not been accepted, the very name of the text of the law, which is, of course, a statement of conformity that is completely incorrect. It is incorrect because that declaration of compliance with EU rules decides that there are no provisions of the primary sources of EU law concerning this bill, that there are no provisions of secondary EU sources relating to this bill - incorrectly. They did not take into account other sources of EU law, too incorrectly. There are no relevant EU rules to ensure compliance and this is also incorrect. So it seems to me that here it is rightly insisting on the fact that the law refers to the legalization of something that was previously prohibited by some law and sublaw, and that is what we are actually coming up with a situation that is out of matter, which, in fact, the bill of law has to be dealt with, which this kind of bill should be governed by. Of course, there is a term -- informal settlements, there is a mentioned Vienna Declaration in 2004, which has just been adopted so that Member States can coordinate at least as a secondary source of law with the national legal system, and something like that should have been taken into account. The term was introduced in the EU for the purpose of achieving a final, some common agreement on actions that will primarily be regulated and improved informal settlements in a fully sustainable way and to prevent future illegal construction, in fact to prevent the construction of future illegal settlements. Of course, the same Vienna Declaration that I am referring to, by providing circumstances with a source of EU law that the applicant did not use, for which I really do not know, but informal settlements are precisely those settlements which for certain reasons and for various reasons do not actually realise and contribute to the achievement of those legal recognition requirements, which have been built without respect for formal legal property procedures, ownership transfer as well as building urban planning obligations. This practice exists in many countries, hindering their economic development. Some of these countries had in mind this declaration, so they came from it when they approached the solution to this problem. Some of the allegations in the 2004 Vienna Declaration, when adopted, clearly predict that space and the environment as a resource are extremely limited, very often non-renewable. The lack of space is ranked as one of today's seven biggest problems, it declares not only something above the earth's surface, but beneath the earth's surface. Informal construction in one long term changes and ultimately permanently destroys and directly reduces potentials, both present and future development potentials or potentials. She has two visions, the first when it's not possible to get a building permit at all and the second when it's possible to win but the investor didn't ask. The fact is to ignore Vienna's 2004 declaration, we see it from a bill like this. If you'd at least tried to read and align with what's written there, then this bill of legalization would have been very different. I have to say, what kind of legal equality can we talk about, which we had the opportunity to read in this bill, if we're equating something that's legal with something that's illegal. Actually, with something that's legal with something that's nonexistent? There is rightly one case of empowerment of illegal legal work, and this case of empowerment of illegal legal work in our law is called conqualification. It represents a subsequent refreshment of this non-legal business or a destructive contract, whatever. I don't know if the provisions of this law can be applied to the same provisions of the conquistance. I don't think I can, and I'd like to hear about this proposal, because by refusing a amendment like this, I don't think he understood the very essence and the very reasons why I put up with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24785	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dusan Petrovic and Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24786	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, three weeks ago when you explained the bill on legalization, we of the LDP felt that the government should withdraw this proposal from the assembly procedure. The proof that we were right is the fact that 170 amendments were proposed on this bill, and the law has only 40 members. So four and a half times you have more amendments to the proposed law than the law has members. So today I call again on you to withdraw the law from the assembly procedure, because this bill certainly does not solve the problem of buildings for which there is no building or use of a permit. You are practically proposing that legalisation be done only for those facilities for which the application was submitted by March 2010. Mr. Minister, you spoke in principle, it's been three weeks, so maybe some of them don't remember you taking care of the positions of the Constitutional Court. But these views did not interfere with the promoter that in one serious, professional, complete way, he defined problems related to all illegal objects. With such a bill, practically chaos that exists in urban and construction terms, you are also transferring to this bill. The Liberal Democratic Party has submitted 32 amendments to the proposed text. This amendment to Article 1. The government did not adopt an explanation that the proposed member is sufficiently clear and covers the conditions, the procedure and the way in which the facility is legalised. Mr. Minister, if you had carefully read the LDP amendment, I think you would have accepted it, because this argument by the government is not good enough to reject the LDP amendment. First of all, the proposed Article 1 of the law is imprecise, as the law stipulates that legalisation is only possible for those facilities for which the application has already been submitted by March 2010. That Article 1 is also inaccurate to you in the sense of Article 4 of the proposed law. Article 4 provides that under legalization the subsequent issue of a construction and use permit for an object, or part of an object that has been built, reconstructed or completed without a building permit, is to be used without the use of the permit. If so, Article 1 does not require any mention of the applicable authorisation, since the concept of legalisation implies both the issue of construction and the use of permits. Furthermore, legalisation is not only about built buildings without a building permit, but also about those who built and gave up approval for construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24787	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Aleksandar Senic, Borislav Stefanovic, together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Dr Janko Veselinović, Gordana Comić, master of Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branko Karavidić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24788	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing amendments to the law on legalization. We've all forgotten when we discussed the law in principle. Meanwhile, two or three meetings of the Assembly were scheduled. The continuity of this work has been interrupted, but let's try to get back on the subject. With this amendment, we have proposed that they do not need to legalise objects and those owners of objects that are not at the time of the construction of the obligation to obtain a building permit, or building permit, to all those objects that are citizens at some time when there was no obligation to issue a building permit to start construction. We believe that this would specify a circle of faces that have no obligation to apply for legalization. Maybe that's understood. However, there is no regulation that says this in a decade and that is why we felt it would be good to relieve those persons in some way of thinking that they would sometimes have to enter a circle of legalisation when one day the government ran out of funds, when the gap in the budget is even bigger, because in this country where the law is not always certain, that is, in which even the Constitution is sometimes not respected, it would be bad for citizens to be aware as much as possible. I think this is about a lot of subjects, natural persons that have such objects and that it's good to know this. I don't know why the minister wouldn't accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24789	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24790	The proposed Article 2 is completely excessive. It defines that this law does not apply to buildings built without a building permit or building permit in accordance with the rules applicable at the time of construction, but which have not been prescribed the obligation to obtain a building permit or a building permit. If an object, Mr. Minister, is built in accordance with the regulations that were in force at the time, such an object is certainly not the subject of legalisation and that Article 2, such definition is meaningless and unnecessary. You put it there because Article 4 did not adequately and quality-written what is meant by this law and which objects are subject to legalization. In this respect, the LDP has defined, by Article 2 of the proposed amendment, which objects are subject to this law. It's impossible, Minister. You have that kind of information. Since this law is applied to you, and it says so, only to what they have applied for, it is certain that no one has submitted the demands of these people who built at a time when a building permit was not needed. Why would they report for legalisation by March 2010? They didn't answer. Who are you going to apply this Article 2 to? The problem is that the group that's been writing for months, eight months, this subsequent bill, has not well defined what legalization of the facilities in Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24791	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24792	Thank you. As regards the amendment to Article 3 that I have submitted, I will agree with the part of the reasoning that reads - the amendment is not accepted, given that these members are accurately prescribed and listed objects. For a part for which construction and use permits cannot be subsequently issued, which achieves protection of public interest and neighbourly rights, they absolutely cannot agree because such a thing is incorrect and I have already been instructed and I have called for some of the EU rules. Now I'm going to try to explain it a little bit more. If the proposer in point 1 of point 1 states that for buildings built, or reconstructed and constructed without a building permit, or without use, no Gr5adjevine permit can be subsequently issued if the facility is built, or reconstructed on land unfavourable for construction, skating, wetland and the like, so it seems to me that it is like Socrates – I know that I know nothing. Why? Because first those who worked on such a single bill, and later who explained the amendments that are being rejected, should bear in mind some positive legal regulations that exist in the RS. So let's say that they looked at something like that, and if they found something like that, then they would see that the Mining and Geological Research Act, which was published in the 'Official Messenger' in 2011, is still legal, in no of its provisions mentioning land unfavorable for construction. On the contrary, this same Mining Act7 and geological research in its Article 21 defines – applied geological research, as well as research done for the needs of spatial and urban planning, design and construction of construction and other buildings in order to meet geological construction, terrain, etc. These land claims are unfavourable to build pave the way for all the corrupt activities that flourish in our society, since it is a very fertile ground for such a thing and rather than for the proposing to anticipate and to stand in the way of such possible abuses by this member and by not accepting such an amendment, by eradicating this article that is completely pointless and which has absolutely nothing to do with EU regulations, but also with some other positive regulations of the RS, which were to be read first and kept in mind when such a bill was written, simply leads to all these possible abuses opening the door, and that is one broad road. All of this is left to one subjective assessment of the authority to decide on a matter for which it is not in charge first, and the other one decides on a matter for which it is not even professional. Of course, neither the provisions of point 2 of the same attitude nor the members are any better defined. The proposer argues that for buildings constructed, or reconstructed or constructed without a building permit, a building permit cannot be issued subsequently if the facility is constructed or reconstructed from materials that do not provide sustainability and the safety of the facilities. Of course there's no indication of what material it is. So we don't know. It's not even a regulation that would refer us to something like that. Nothing's disputed. Some of us might know. The Law on Planning and Construction, and you had to bear in mind this law when you wrote such a bill, in your Article 6, determines that construction and other products used in the construction of a building or the execution of works must meet the requirements prescribed by this law and specific regulations. Of course, the lack of provisions in this article of the Law on Planning and Construction, which we already know will soon be in the assembly procedure, so we will be able to discuss it, too, concerns that domestic regulations that would comply with the requirements of European standards are not yet sufficient. In this matter, just because the EU rules have not been taken into account again, something is being denied. The European Council Resolution thus sets out the need to define essential safety requirements and other aspects which are relevant to the common good, without reducing the existing and justified levels of protection provided for by the existing regulation. I'm not sure this is the kind of bill that made these existing standards go down. Now, the European Union, to say further, which has a number of regulations in this matter and therefore I insist that the statement of conformity is completely incorrect, with the basic documents of the new approach in technical harmonisation, precisely in the area of construction, I see that the minister does not care at all, but does not matter, regulates the principles that have been adopted in the field of technical regulations and which has been published in the following documents. So again, the declaration of harmony has nothing to do with it and it's completely incorrect. Resolution of the Council of Europe on a new approach to technical harmonisation of the standards of the Council of Europe, Minister Ilic, on a global approach to establishing compliance and solutions on modules for different phases, procedures for establishing compliance and on rules for marking and applying the SE sign for compliance, which are intended to be applied in directives and technical harmonisation. To begin with, I think it was enough to look at these resolutions and that would be the starting point from which you could start writing the bill. Here I am talking about some EU regulations that have not been taken into account. I can see that the minister is not interested in listening to me, and he could learn what the EU rules are, precisely in a matter that is regulated by such a bill, but since I am the applicant of a number of amendments, a little later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24793	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, I was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24794	Thank you. Please refuse me this time from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, the DSS submitted an amendment to Article 3 where we proposed that item 3 be deleted in paragraph 1 which states that the facility was built on the surfaces of public purposes, etc. can't be subject to legalization, so it can't be legalized. I don't think maybe the legislator here has considered all the possibilities for legalizing the facilities well enough. I just wanted to remind you in a few sentences why this shouldn't stand, that is, to see what the concept is in principle of this whole legalization, which is the idea of the legislator and this legislator of the law itself. So, the areas of public purposes, as we all know, are defined by a plan document, and also many municipalities until the adoption of this 2009 law did not have the planning documents, but it was this law that made the obligation for all local self-governments to make spatial plans and to make plans for the general regulation of their administrative centres, so that only then, in many municipalities, I can say freely in most municipalities in Serbia, were the planning documents, i.e. started to be produced, so that there is a high probability that in a large number of municipalities, precisely public purposes were determined only after the construction of the facilities themselves, because we know that only those who were able to apply here could have been illegally built by 11 September 2009. So, I don't think you've taken that into account, and I think this is a very important thing to consider, especially since, in the light of the rejection of the amendment, you say it's so contained in the previous applicable laws that are governed by this area. However, just in the previous law, in Article 187 of the Constitutional Court Decision, it was declared unconstitutional, the 2009 Planning and Construction Act. The facilities could have been legalized on these areas of public purpose, with the consent of the legal person. You, in this article, are predicting something like that, but only if this object is for public purposes. On the basis of this, I think maybe the legislator should think a little bit – what's the point of legalization. I haven't had a chance to talk about this before, but I have some doubts that this legalization is going to end, or what it really is. Is the goal being to legalize these objects or is the aim of not legalizing them? We know about how many objects, somewhere below 700,000, we have submitted legal requirements, and yet so much or less, something more than 600,000 objects, as you said in the debate earlier when we talked about other laws in the field of urbanism and construction, that we have more of those objects that have not been applied for legalization. I'm just wondering -- what do you think we're doing with these objects? It seems to me that in some of your press statements, I have seen that some of the things you mention here in the law, you simply do not consider when you make press statements, such as a statement that says – by enrolling objects in the cadastre, ensure that they collect any compensation if these objects are located on the path of some infrastructure facility. So, by enrolling property rights over buildings that are illegally built on the path of an infrastructure project, therefore, on certain areas that are public purpose, citizens can enter their property and charge compensation, but cannot legalise those facilities. I really think it's absurd, and I'll talk more about it during the other amendments. I'd like to get that straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24795	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Djuric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24796	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, in particular, this is about protecting neighbourly rights, at least that's how the amendment of LDP MPs was rejected. So you decided not to issue a building permit, if the facility was built at an insufficient distance from the neighboring property. That means mandatory destruction of the facility. So you forget the fact that the construction of the building cannot be completed in one day, as well as the reconstruction, and the owner of the neighbouring property, during this time period during which some property was built, reconstructed, had all possible legal protection to react. He could have addressed the court, he could have addressed the building inspection, he could have done a million things to prevent the formation of an object that was built at an insufficient distance from its property. However, you forget all that and decide on such a dragon approach as regards an illegal builder. I agree with you that there are some elements of illegality, illegality, but this still does not justify the solution you resorted to, and I really must ask you again – do you have the capacity to destroy such objects, along with all other illegally built objects, and these objects built at an insufficient distance from the neighbor's property. This is a legal nonsens, slightly speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24797	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Borislav Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24798	The Democratic Party has made an amendment to Article 3(5) by several legislators with the intention of erasing this part because, as noted by several MPs, it is inconclusive in practice. So we believe that taking into account the criteria of distance of objects will lead, otherwise in the chaotic legal and geodetic environment that exists in Serbia, to further complications of the whole process. We believe that with the current resources, the ministry and what they have realistically, with the number of geodesys and people who can do things on the ground with the number of pending objects at the level of municipalities, with the total chaos that is in this domain unfortunately in Serbia, that it is absolutely impossible and that it will lead to further complications in determining the criteria of distance, as one of the criteria for the collapse of illegally built objects. We already have enough other things that make this process difficult. The introduction of this criterion, respected citizens, means that someone can arbitrarily, since there is no theoretical chance of carrying out any of this on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will lead to further enormous complications. We do not have the illusion that the Ministry led by Minister Ilic and about this will fully ignore DS proposals, but we see other opposition parties, because they believe that the things they put on paper in the domain of this bill for them are just one illusion that is in paper form. They do not want and do not see the complete building chaos that exists today in the Republic of Serbia. They don't want or see the truth they won't tell Serbian citizens. They cannot pass laws like this when the afternoons say that legalisation is inconclusive and that it is essentially to be avoided, and on the other hand they introduce such a criterion as to the distance of objects. In all of Serbia, there are a huge number of such objects, and we believe that the introduction of such a rule, such a criterion, and otherwise a deadlocked process, which, despite all will and bad references at the expense of Minister Dulic, will not reach these famous 10% annual legalized objects, and then Minister Ilic considers – simply, people, don't legalize it because it's pointless, and we won't crash because the citizens don't like it, but you register well in the Catastre, so that we have someone to charge taxes from. That's what citizens need to know and that's the whole point of what they're doing here. The introduction of these things only shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia will try to selectively determine who they can bring down the house, if the house is built at a close distance compared to what is, say, done three blocks away. How they'll be able to do it in practice, I don't think the minister knows it either. I don't think anyone in the community has any idea, and I think, worst of all, that citizens can basically just look at the sky right now and expect someone to knock them out or not. We think that this point 5 is harmful and that's why we're asking it to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24799	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3rd of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by National MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24800	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. I'm using the time of my authorized proposing. Dear Ministers, in Article 3, which speaks of possibilities, i.e. the inability to legalize certain objects, we have suggested in point 5 that we delete the words "under the terms of the prescribed plan document". So, what's this about? I don't know how deep you got when you were making a proposal, specifically for this Article 3, but it's very important that you understand the situation on the ground, or the situation in urban services. The planning documents generally provide more restrictive measures compared to this Regulation on general rules for parceling, regulation, construction, etc. Also, the Regulation does not define the purpose, as you speak here at this point 5. So, for example, There is a possibility that on a given surface someone built a housing facility in relation to the business document, as envisaged by the planning document, so instead of six floors suddenly thinking that it would be best to build seven floors and in relation to the building approval he has a little bit more over some squares and now that facility will not be legalized. Again I ask the question – what is the meaning of legalization? Legalize or not legalize? If we don't legalize, shall we tear them down? We just need to know, as MPs, representatives of the people, we need to pass it on to our citizens in our municipalities, regions and cities, what the whole law is all about. So far, I've realized, speaking to colleagues from several urban service municipalities, that if there is a general regulation plan, then no rules of the rules are applicable. As you certainly know, since you must have submitted various requirements for construction, etc., you or one of your family, it is impossible to happen, unless a precise provision or member of the law has been specified, not to have any misreads and such. It is therefore very important to tell these officers exactly what is the meaning of a certain member of the law. You, of course, when you explained the bill in principle, said how difficult it was to change the officers. That's exactly where I agree with you. That's completely true, and that's where I support you. These officers have been working for 30, 40 to 50 years as they please, as they think necessary, and no one can change that. For this reason, it is necessary for the members of the law to be very precise. Also, I don't think the explanation is precise enough -- we're going to use either the rulebook or certain elements of the general regulation plan, depending on what's more favourable. So you can't say. All those who go to the urban service, build something, file demands, know it's impossible. Simply, it must be clear to officials, i.e. those institutions for urbanism, directorates or departments for urbanism and spatial planning, what will be used in the case of legalisation. Also, I just have to tell you that it's necessary, if we want to legalize, then we have to do some work and let it go a little bit. I understand that this is an exorbitant solution and that there are provisions, or members of the previous Law on Planning and Construction, which must be respected because the Constitutional Court has said that we are putting citizens in an unequal position, but we are certainly putting citizens in an unequal position because if this point 5 remains, we are legalizing something that must be included in the planning documentation. If it fits the planning documentation, then we need to get them back into the regular procedure for issuing a building permit. So that's how we put our citizens in an unequal position. Objects that have a building permit, e.g. Overstepped several squares for the boiler room, for the stairs, for the log, etc., and did so after March 2010 or September 2009, now cannot legalize those facilities. I think we need to think a little bit wider, and first we need to know what our goal is -- to legalize or not to legalize? Our citizens need to know what we're on, whether the Ministry will determine clearer directions to bring down those objects that are over 600,000 by last year, and now probably even more. Let me tell you that only in this Article 3, as some of the colleagues have spoken, there are too many restrictions on legalization, and I'm afraid that we will almost most of these requirements that are left and objects that have not been legalized, simply citizens have to know that they will probably not be able to legalize under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24801	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sasa Dujovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24802	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Member to which we have responded shall establish objects which cannot be legalised, i.e. not subsequently issued, but in the position of the 2nd member, the legislator of the law departs from this rule and provides that the authorities responsible for legalising the owner of an illegal facility will issue a building permit if he submits the consent of one of the owners of the adjacent facility. This is about the owner of a neighboring facility. So it's only about one single consent. I ask the question – is it justified that today we are talking about a single agreement if, for example, this facility surrounds five other objects, and there is no question of whether these owners are legal or illegal? As set out in the bill, this provision is an amazing basis for the abuse of rights, firstly, and secondly because it represents and gives the owner of an illegal facility a basis to make it very easy to skip this condition that is intended and to come to legalisation. We think that the amendment that we have submitted is more than just and that it was necessary that you accept it. For what? Because he says that in this situation, in order for someone to get a later building permit, or for his facility to be legalized, it is necessary to obtain the consent of all legal owners of the adjacent facility. What you wrote, Mr. Minister, or your service, in an explanation for why you refuse this amendment simply does not stand. You're saying it implies that consent is needed to be collected by all owners of legal objects. It has nothing to do with what the law says, because the law in this provision is more than clear. He seeks exclusive consent from the owner of the neighbouring facility. I ask you to reconsider the justification of this amendment, because it is the only just and justifiable solution in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24803	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MPs Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24804	I understand that, in order to protect neighbourly rights, it was necessary to enter into the bill a provision requiring the consent of the owner of the neighbouring facility as a condition that the owner of an illegally built facility can legalise its object, but that will make it much more difficult for the legalisation process itself, but also to create the possibility that the owner of a neighbouring object may abuse the rights given to it by this law. That is why, with this amendment, we wanted, as much as possible, to mitigate this provision and to enable local self-government to make a decision within a certain period of time from the date of entry into force of this law which will in a different way regulate the conditions for distance from the neighbouring object. It is certain that local self-government knows best what the situation is on the ground and knows best what is best for their citizens. Certainly, where opposition has been made from the owner of a neighbouring facility in the construction of an illegal facility, it is necessary to seek this consent, but it should not be generalised on all illegally built buildings because this will make legalisation difficult, which will otherwise be difficult for some very likely and impossible. This is how Article 3 is foreseen. The bill will not solve the problem but will open space for some new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24805	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MPs Olgica Batic and Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24806	Thank you. First of all, I have to say that this explanation that has been given to me, which refuses such an amendment, is absolutely not clear. Namely, it is said in an explanation – the amendment is not accepted since this article is determined and defined, legalisation of an object within the meaning of this law, which is an important provision for the correct application of the provisions of the bill. Look, we had some other laws and some other laws defined something by some other provisions. But between definition and determination, there can be no sign of equality with proper application. We had a so-called. The lustration law. He defined the concept of lustration. It's been going on for 20 years and it's never been applied. I really don't understand what the proposer or the one who wrote such an explanation, and it's completely clumsy, wanted to say this kind of reasoning and reasoning that some amendment is not accepted. Namely, if the proposer of this bill is in his A1 article. states that this law regulates the conditions, the procedure, the way in which objects are legalised, that is, parts of objects built without a building permit, or the use of permits, building approvals as well as all other issues of importance for legalisation of objects, well, then something is not clear to me. Why the same question is raised here by Article 4 of this proposal if the same is already stated in Article 1. Then why do you have two of the same members? I don't know what you're speculating. It's a special question, and here I'm going to appeal to the Constitution. Thus, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its Article 197 determines that laws and other general acts cannot have legal facts. It's clear to everyone and nothing is disputed. Now the position of two of those same members and of the same Constitution determines that only exceptional, that only certain provisions of the law can have a feedback fact that I have talked about today, as well as in the debate in principle, and only in those cases where the general interest established in the adoption of the law requires it. I'm quoting this for one simple reason. Namely, I do not see at all what the point is that the compensation for the issue of a building permit, i.e. for a part of the facility that was built, whether it has been reconstructed, built without a building permit or without the use of a permit, or which is used without the permission, belongs to a category that is completely contrary to all those constitutional norms, which relate to the retroactivity already mentioned, which implies applying the legal norms to the events that occurred before its entry into force. It is precisely that giving this retroactivity, i.e. legal force to legal norms and acts, is not necessary at all. It is never desirable, nor celery, only because it creates a complete uncertainty among citizens. I guess it's clear to everyone here that only legal norms can be retroactively applied and only extremely, therefore, extremely restrictive and only if there are general interests. So, completely justified reasons. I mean, at least I'm that kind of attitude, that there's hardly a general interest in this case of subsequent legalization of the built objects that, in all its stages, are listed in this bill, waves that all live citizens of this country almost killed, and could also be called oceans, which have gone off for almost 18 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24807	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24808	The proposed LDP amendment asked that this member be deleted for the reason that we have submitted amendments to earlier members of the better quality, expertise and better than the Government to define what legalisation is. Mr. Ilic, you usually come to this parliament and talk to the MPs. You've obviously decided to keep your mouth shut today. If you don't want to discuss the amendments with us today, then there's really no need for you to be there. Seventeen people have already debated, we haven't heard anything from you. Three weeks have passed since you explained the law in principle. As Minister, I think you should say something beyond this argument that we have received as the government's opinion why the proposals and amendments are not being accepted. If you're going to keep your mouth shut for 170 discussions, then I think the other parliamentary groups will agree, that there's no need for him to be in the O.R. at all. You, Mr. Minister, were in the opening statement when it came to the law in principle more about the Law on the Law on the Law of Property Law than about the Law on Legalization. That's when you said that many citizens interfere with these two laws, and they mix them because when you defended the Law on the Law of Law, you repeatedly used the notion of legalization. At that time, we of the LDP asked you not to use the term legalization in the Law on the registration of property rights because citizens will think that this will solve the issue of issuing a building and use permit. Obviously, this government's primary priority was to pass the law, propose to parliament and adopt a Law on the registration of property rights that no issue concerning the issue of construction and use of the permit is resolved. The only thing that's being solved is that citizens who don't have an object enlisted in the cataster can type it for a hundred euros. If we have a million and 500 thousand such buildings in this country, this country will fill the budget with 150m euros. That's how these citizens didn't solve their problem. With these laws, citizens who have buildings built without a building permit will not solve the problem of their facilities, Mr. Minister. First of all, you yourself said that this law applies only to half of those objects, those 700 thousand who applied. What about the other 700 grand? You said then in a debate in principle, that no one would surely tear down the facilities. You told citizens through the media that there was no need to legalize objects unless they wanted to sell them. You're saying by this law that if a citizen is rejected, then not complete the paperwork the next step is destruction. It's a public deception, Mr. Minister. When you have 170 amendments on one bill, it's obvious that you, not personally, your associates, are not professional enough, you haven't had enough quality, you may not have had time, and I think you have seen the problem of illegal construction. With this bill, therefore, this law will not solve the problem of illegal construction in Serbia. Then why the law like this? This law should not be called a law on legalisation, but rather a law on legalisation of objects for which an application was submitted by March 2010, and then to parliament to propose a new law. Law on legalisation of objects for those objects for which no application has been made. Before the Constitution, all citizens should be equal, then equal rights should be given to those who have submitted the request and those who are not. With this law, you don't give such an opportunity. So, you're in the debate in principle, talking about the Law on the Law of Law on the Law of Property Law against the Law of Legalization. Please join the discussion. If you're gonna sit there and keep your mouth shut, then there's no need to be in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24809	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24810	I thank the chairman. I'm going to rely on what my colleague Radmila Gerov said earlier, and that was why I asked this law and the first amendment to actually change the name of this bill itself, because it's not something that essentially paints the matter of which this bill deals with. I will also read a very similar explanation for which the previous amendment, which I have submitted, is that the amendment is not accepted, given that these articles specify the objects, i.e. the works subject to legalisation in accordance with this law, which contributes to the future proper application of the law. Let's wait until we apply, and let's see if that future application is even going to be right, that's some question we're leaving behind the future. What's the point is that the bill of this law, this law on legalization of objects, is not a lex specialis. So he's not a special law and precisely because this law is not a lex specialis, then his provisions can only apply to those cases that arise after his adoption. The legal force is the date of adoption of this law, i.e. the date of its entry into force, is the legal deadline under which it will be resolved on legal status on the built-up, or reconstructed or upgraded buildings without a building permit, or without the use of permission, or approval for construction, which as a date can certainly not be what is already mentioned here, which is 11 September 2009, nor can it be 11 March 2010, imagine the ministers for one simple reason, then there was no such law, and the Lex specialis did not exist. It is quite another question whether the objects listed in this article are more constructed in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, or perhaps not built in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, starting from the entry into force of that same law, since 2003. The provisions on the fact that a building permit, or a useful permit, will also be issued for those buildings built on the basis of a building permit, or building approval, are confirmed by the main project on which construction permits have been granted, i.e. the approvals for the construction of a certified main facility, cannot simply be an integral part of this law, because it is actually a matter of usurperers, I will not particularly explain that category, I hope that it is clear to everyone what it means, who are consciously, solely for the sake of their own benefit they have violated the law. I don't know, Mr. Ilic, what's funny to you? There's been someone working here, there's someone trying, there's 174 amendments here, so please have at least so much consideration, if you don't want to comment and engage in a debate with the MPs, that at least properly and dignifiedly, as is appropriate to the National Assembly, you listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24811	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24812	If it wasn't for me to just keep my mouth shut, what could I tell you when you submitted 35 amendments and all 35 were wiped out. You're a kind of lawyer, so can my late grandmother, Simana, write it down, wipe it out. Now all I have to do is figure out whether to delete or not? What have you solved if we wipe it all out? What's settled? I know you want us to understand that you're the docks and that you want to talk here for three hours to wipe out and use... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Ilic. )......................................................................................................... but I expect the MPs to have a serious debate, and I'm serious about this. If you say delete, delete everything, delete everything and go home and ask the citizens what to do now, they say - we don't know. So, you know what, be serious, it's really funny for me to have someone write 35 amendments and hand them over and write them all 35 -- delete. Let's wipe it all out and get it over with. You're discussing it - it's deleted; every time for five minutes. Delete already, understand? I understand that you gave some legal solution well, so let's say – ideally, perfectly, let's accept it; but when I read it, here's every one of them writing to you – it's deleted. You delete it, that my little son could come to write – it's erased; everything in order and let him hold here for three hours of conversation, discussion, and wipe out every member, what do we do? Okay, is that your solution, ideal? That's why I don't want to answer that kind of thing, and there's no point in talking about it, and that's fine with you. So, you talk, discuss, see, Serbian citizens say, if we delete everything we're going to do with illegal objects, you understand? Therefore, I don't write the law, this law has worked 17 people from the profession. If you have some better you recommend them, I don't know. These are the people who are, you know, the Law on Planning and Construction how many people have worked? One hundred and eighty from the country and abroad. They made the law, and you will write it all tomorrow – it is deleted; and then you solved all the problems. So let's be serious. Here, I take serious remarks. Look, I insisted that some people's amendments be accepted, here, for example. But he wrote something that's normal. And ye write, it is wiped out: and ye ask me, what shall I not wipe out? Well, what am I supposed to do, as a minister, and I say let's wipe out everything to listen to dear Miss Batic and everything will be fine and then you'll have no more problems. Don't be angry, but it's your policy and your story and I don't have any comment on that story of yours, you know? So when you write an excellent proposal or a good one, I will certainly get involved in that discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24813	Minister Ilic, I only ask that we speak with dignity to the MPs and not criticise them that way. Of course, they have the right to express their views. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students and teachers of the high PTT school, who are currently following a part of today's session at the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome the guests. Olga Batic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24814	It would be pointless for me to be angry with Mr. Ilic, don't you think? When I was making some constructive suggestions, and it wasn't -- it was wiped out; it wasn't right, you know? Mr. Ilic, you didn't comment on me in principle. You asked for my legal opinion, so when I gave it to you again, it's not responding, and you can laugh until the day after tomorrow. And what you said "can be my grandmother", so you know, I laughed just like you when I read the bill, not just this one, but some of your earlier bill proposals. They were more than funny. Now you have to figure it out with yourself so you can say, since in principle you said it was written by 50 lawyers, and today you said it was written by 17 now, I don't know how many lawyers there were, but I know that you told me, in an open conversation, that you didn't have a camera, that you needed help, so when help is offered, it's no good, and then when someone proposes to delete something, then it's no good, and then it's funny, then little kids can do it, too, can grandmothers. Well, I'm sorry, a little child can make a bill like this, and grandparents can write a bill like this. That's why this bill was supposed to be withdrawn from the procedure. And if you'd understood, and if you'd read my amendments, and you hadn't read them, you'd have seen it from your address to me, then you'd have respected something. Then you'd pull out and we'd have some better-quality bill today, and on a high-quality bill, I can't give you any quality amendments. Look, if all 37 amendments, as many as there are members, had I submitted amendments to any content, and it could not have helped with such a bill, because this law is all just not good. So, pull him up. Don't embarrass yourself, next time you have the help of all the MPs who are lawyers, here in the National Assembly. That's what I was offering last time, that's what I was saying in the draft law on special terms of property rights, and then I wasn't giving amendments to which I was erasing the members, but you weren't worth those amendments again... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And then I was young, and today I'm a great lawyer. I wasn't good at that time and I wasn't a good lawyer, and today I'm a great lawyer. So, Mr. Ilic, of course, I'm not angry, I like you. I used to laugh just like you today, but only when I read the bill, like any of your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24815	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24816	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill has no help. This law must be withdrawn from the procedure because by adopting 19 amendments, and in this law there are 40 members, it clearly speaks of the quality of the bill. You've adopted that on your own misery, those 19 amendments, and there's at least 140 left. So half of the law you're already changing in procedure, and the other half is no good, and what you've changed isn't enough. So, in all of this, the result of this bill is very clear. The law of procedure immediately. You have a serious political problem, Mr. Minister. You intend to destroy at least 700,000 illegally built objects, and you choose and tell the public how you intend to do it, if you are serious. If you're not serious, in that case, it doesn't matter. With this bill, you are entering a new legalisation cycle that failed neither in 2003 nor in 2009. Then why are you attached to these dates – September 11th 2009 and March 2010? With the amendment of the LDP MPs, we want you to give up those dates. These dates are an obstacle to any sorting out of this problem and solving all the difficulties these problems produce. In your explanation, you do not need to give up these dates – in 2009 and 2010, which are actually derived from that Law on Planning and Construction, which is assessed by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional by members 185 to 200. In the light of why you reject the LDP amendment, which is proposed that if you are bound by a specific date that was possible to build illegally, you do not have to bind yourself to that date for the law to be passed. You say -- no, no, no, it doesn't matter. Why doesn't it matter? Because there's a Law on the admission of illegally built objects to the Catastre. You're saying that under that law, it doesn't matter if you, citizens, applied for the legalization of your illegally built facilities. You are entering a direct conflict situation regarding the implementation of this law. You're coming into college, you're passing one law that hasn't been passed with another law that's already being applied. It's illegal. I would remind you of the objectives of the adoption of this Law on Legalization, and you wrote that in the light of the bill. It says – bringing in legal flows of illegally built objects. Legal target, excellent. He says - getting legal certainty. That's a great goal. Legal equality, excellent. It seems to avoid arbitration. That's a great goal. Your fifth goal is to increase the budget of local self-government. How are you going to bring into legal flows all these illegally built objects with such limiting factors, such as these dates, which you have incorporated into the law, and you are really entering a new legalisation cycle? How do you think you really build legal certainty, if you allow that kind of arbitration that will be problematic when this law is in force and when it is implemented, when all these vague provisions, to which more than 170 amendments have been submitted, have been applied? You say legal equality. Where is your economic equality of citizens. You are looking for legal equality in terms of obtaining all these documents and paying all these obligations, not thinking that in fact over 30% of Serbian citizens are jobless, that this country is poor and that the actual construction has stopped. No more new buildings are built, no more paper, no more paper, and what was built may have been built after 2009, it may have been built in 2010, but based on this law, which you are passing, it will either be legalized or be destroyed. That arbitration, it generates corruption. All these goals you call upon will absolutely be devastated, and only corruption will flourish. So what are you going to do if you stay on this bill? Pull him out of the procedure. Don't lead the citizens astray. Do not demagoguely promise them towers and cities, and do indeed work to bring down the legal order and the legal certainty to which you call.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24817	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24818	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, I will repeat what I have already said in my presentation, which is that we have a decades-old problem with illegal construction. This problem has tried to solve all previous governments by passing new laws with increasingly liberal conditions and failed because the problem of illegal construction is complex. Depriving the right to legalise owners of illegally built objects, after 2009, the owners of illegally built buildings by 2009 who did not apply for legalisation largely restrict the scope of this law, as the law will only apply to a percentage small part of the illegally built objects that really exist in Serbia. If the state has allowed 1,400,000 buildings to be built in Serbia by its failure to react in previous years, I do not see why we do not want to or cannot allow them to be introduced into legal frameworks in accordance with the provisions of this law and these objects. With this approach, we directly influence the fact that many citizens, owners of illegally built objects, are left out of the system. The question arises: Who loses here? Loses and owners of illegally built buildings, which want to comply with the provisions of this law to legalise their buildings, and losses and the state, because the state will certainly not destroy these buildings, but would otherwise charge compensation for the regulation of building land, taxes, etc. Another important remark. With this approach again, we place the unequal position of those citizens who built before 2009 when there were also laws that did not allow illegal construction and those citizens who built after 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24819	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24820	Dear Chairman, I would like to give this opportunity full support to this amendment. I believe that the amendment is fully justified and that we will certainly support this amendment in the voting day. I agree with everything that previous colleagues have said. Once again, I remind and appeal to the minister to discuss this problem with us, about a vacuum that we have for over 600,000 objects. We don't even know what number it is anymore, or how you recorded those 600, 700 thousand objects for which no legalization application has been filed. What are we gonna do with them? Are we going to tear them down or not? I repeat the question from a little while ago. If we're going to tear them down, we need to know exactly that, and our country's citizens need to know today when we're discussing this law before we vote on it, because it's going to depend on how we vote, or we're going to give them the opportunity to legalize objects. Since I wasn't there when you spoke in principle, I read what you said very carefully. It seems to me that you were the attitude to allow legalization and to complete the legalisation properly. The Democratic Party of Serbia advocates that the facilities are legalised in a simple way, to introduce order in the area of urbanism, to complete the legalisation of all these objects, to arm some period for which this should end, and then to one quality law on planning and construction to act and thus to make a quality legal solution that will not allow unwitting investors to build illegally. That way we can solve illegal construction. The Law on Legalisation is not to blame for illegal construction; it is to blame the Law on Planning and Construction. In the previous period we had problems and it happened that in principle some 2008, 2009, the most illegal buildings were built in 2010. Why? Because under the previous law, adopted before this 2009 law, approval was granted for construction. According to this approval for construction, many investors began to build, although in a disposition of the building approval, it says they should not start before they get a building permit. However, they used this some, let's say, space that's been around 30 days to start that construction. That's when most of these illegal buildings were built. Simply, I ask you a question – what about those objects, how did you talk about the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property on illegally built buildings, which did not enter the legalization? It's the law you most talk about when we talk about legalization, planning and construction and anything else, it's always the law in the first place. What about the 4.428 demands of those people who have not applied for legalization and who want to enter property on their facilities? How can we afford to register property rights for every object without letting them legalize? It's putting it back in an unequal position. What about all these facilities? What about those 5,368 items that the RGZ rejected, because they can't enroll property rights, and maybe they can legalize themselves? I don't think we've properly defined what and how this law should be done. I think we need to let go of the possibility that all those objects that were built illegally between 2010 and 2013 can be legalised. I believe, as it has been so far, where almost no object has been destroyed, that it will not be able to do so in the future. I think this amendment is very good and we should support it. How much the ruling coalition thinks about legalisation, about the law and how worried it is about solving the problem of urbanism, it only says that this law has been in the process for four months. He was supposed to be here in front of the MPs by emergency procedure. That didn't happen. Here, we've had this vacuum for five months now where legalization can't be done. I ask another question – what will happen to those owners of illegal objects who have filed legalisation requests, collected all the documentation, stand at the contract, as said in the service, or in municipal administrations? All they had to do was sign the contract. But by June 6th, it wasn't realized. Will they now have to re-literate all documents under this law to submit or not? The citizens had a lot of expenses here. I think there's going to be even higher costs now, and we're talking about some other things that aren't about this legalization. In this way, by legalizing and charging this legalization, we have the opportunity to charge people who did not act by law what follows. So no one complains, and we have to do it, and on the other hand, we don't charge legalisation, we raise VAT, and in this way we impose on the citizens who did it legally and who did it by law and by law, but those who did it illegally and who disobeyed the law in some way, we're not going to charge them, but I'm going to do it on another amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24821	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24822	In order not to comment now, the MPs who gave their amendment were right to think about hundreds of thousands of objects that had been built and which had not entered the legalisation process. It is true that now is the question – what about them? However, we have spoken to the courts, with the Constitutional Court, with everyone, if someone has made the facility and thus received criminal charges or committed an offence and we are now legalizing the offender who is in the criminal proceedings, can't. We can't right now-- we've given him application under the applicable laws, and now we say, "Pull the dots don't apply, you'll be legalized just like everybody else." But that's why a member could be inserted into the new Law on Planning and Construction to vote that those who are under criminal law and the records they have made can enter the regular process of getting the papers as if they were building from the beginning. So, he's going to apply to the local administration, get a building permit, do everything regular under the new law, and get an object that's going to be under construction license, and that's the possibility of getting a used permit. For what they have committed, they will be in a process that will be responsible. Maybe they'll be punished, too. If this was intended for a crime from one to eight years, now you can't say – the court will convict him, and we will now register him. In a new law that is now under public debate on planning and construction, which will be here very soon in 30 days, there is one position that defines this. You asked me, when will it collapse? I've been a minister for a long time, and I haven't broken down a single facility in so many years, and there were hundreds of objects. We try to legalize or enroll everything we can, but legally, to have a basis. We can't now because the Constitutional Court would declare the whole law illegal if in the previous law it was the one who committed the crime and was prosecuted. The one that was processed would enter a regular legalisation process. So, we've been thinking about it, and it's not going to happen, it's going to be through the Planning and Construction Act, because if we adopted this now, then the Constitutional Court law would be declared against the constitution, because the offender would be brought into a normal process as if he hadn't committed a violation. The law was explicit and it was also said, the penalty is prescribed, both prison and money, etc. You say now – it's okay, we can't do it legally, because we're going to get in trouble. I repeat, in the Law on Planning and Construction there will be one member who defines it and allows everyone to go to their municipality. You may have seen a draft new law, where permission will be obtained within the shortest period of time, about seven days, on one counter and the initial building permit is completely free. There will be no possibility that anyone, only one who does not, will not go to the counter of his local administration and apply, will receive papers to complete and obtain official documentation for the facility. He will have the opportunity to meet those obligations that will be laid down in the new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24823	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24824	Thank you. I thank you for your reply to the Honorable Minister, but I just wanted to explain a few more things. And so far, lawless construction has been a crime, as we've done so far, but well, those facilities certainly have not had much to do with criminal charges, because I know what you've been saying and I totally agree with you there when it was a principle debate. You say - the Ministry cannot solve the problem with ten inspectors, so the municipalities and cities, you know, have one or two inspectors and can't solve the problems. Then when you've instructed examples that inspectors shouldn't go out in the field because you know who's doing everything there. So, they don't even get to write the record and get any criminal charges to the authorities at all. You said they wouldn't let the inspectors go to the construction site, probably pay them off, that the clerks had their own procedure that couldn't change, that no law could change, etc. I really agree with you here. These are the same problems both in the ministry and local self-government, in municipalities and in cities. That's where I really agree with you, but I'm curious to know what we're going to do with the ones who didn't have those criminal charges? What if of those 700,000 objects 10% or 20% have criminal records? What about the other facilities? Will these specific members of the law within the framework of the Bill on Planning and Construction be able to legalise themselves? If you say he will, we'll meet here in parliament anyway, and when we talk about the Planning and Construction Act. I think in some way this debate of ours should be based on the Law of Legalization, and yet it keeps going through us, you say the same thing, the Law of Signing Up Unlawfully Built Objects, that they should be entered. Yes, they should be typed, but they should also be legalized. I think it's right, and you say it through this law and through these objectives of the law that you have stated here. It seems to me that these facilities will only be recorded, that these funds that the citizens will pay will generally go into the Republic's budget, and on the other hand there will be no legalisation of which the funds go to the local self-government budget. And there's gonna be a lot of damage from local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24825	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24826	You've seen there's got to be a problem. We will not allow construction under the new law and the number of inspectors will increase at both the local and the republican level. But we don't see why someone would build wild if they were allowed to do no distractions to work with permission if it was obtained during the day, if you had the opportunity to regulate it, if that permit was free of charge at the start and only what was installed for you, it was paid? I would ask many MPs to pass on to the local environments from which they come, and that is also the position in the new law on planning and building, the attitude of all who have worked, and that has been done by many, of the World Bank, many institutions that participated in the construction, EU representatives. Many countries have reportedly helped us with their teams to make that law, which is a key law in one country. You at the bar have to understand one thing - you can't have any more income than building objects. Figure it out already. You won't get one penny because you're building a facility on your territory, you'll just get a VAT, but that facility when it's built, as long as the facility lives, you'll charge the property tax. Its value has been taxed and you make an infrastructure out of property taxes that are extremely large to say in Serbia. That's huge revenue. And you got a profit tax. And from that is built in cities and municipalities of infrastructure. So, no more, forget it -- the first zone in Belgrade 300 euros, they all have to pay 300 euros when they build in the first zone, in the second zone of 250, in the third 200, etc. Somewhere the construction was identical with the price of taxes paid to the municipality or to the city, and these were huge funds and huge imposings that collected the square of the apartment. That's why many investors left Serbia because they couldn't regulate. I remember a great company that got to do the Prokop in Belgrade. When it came to having to be paid at the city's register 300 euros per square, they broke the contract and left. They asked why, and they told them about the infrastructure. They said that all the infrastructure was worked by the late Branko Pesic and everything exists and why we are paying you again now, and they say – it's the law, you're in the first zone, you can't build it until you pay it all back. They said -- people, you're not normal, and they left Serbia. They broke up the contract and quit the job. For 20 or 30 years, the dig couldn't have ended. Why? Because 300 euros per square had to be paid to every square of built area, both business and residential, and garages and everything else. Everyone told us we weren't normal. It's nowhere in the world, and all the infrastructure was built 20 years ago, and the trafo stations, and the plumbing, and the sewers, and the rain sewers and everything. The one who asks nicely – I pay you the trafo station that's been built, I pay you the plumbing that exists, I pay you the sewer that exists? We've confused investors with our zones and our huge taxes. Towns and towns get property taxes. You build an object, it's true that there's some infrastructure and something involved, but the value of that facility has been increased with that infrastructure, etc. As long as there is this facility, so 100 years there is an object, 100 years you've been paying quarterly tax on property per square building and taxes on the earnings of all employees in the municipality or the city. This creates a new infrastructure for new facilities, and you, when built, are immediately of some value and are again paid a tax on property and that is how the whole circle is renewed. Do you understand? As a matter of fact, income for infrastructure construction has been changed. So don't be afraid of some cities now. They write me letters to cities and municipalities – we won't accept anything, we legalize basic income, we have a building permit basic income, etc. Under the new Law on Planning and Construction, only a payment will be made that really the municipality or city is installed on the facility, and the contractor and the investor have the right to install everything themselves, not to take anything, and that large infrastructure street and other, is paid from these revenues through the property tax, which is defined in each city. Look at the amount of items in certain municipalities of property tax. Those are huge items. That might be times 10 than it was now from building permits. If everyone pays the property tax, and everyone has to pay the property tax. No one can avoid it. I talked to the IRS recently, and they say, "You'll just stop paying." Even though the facility isn't operational, you pay. This is now the problem of many citizens who have extra business space and have not hired that space. Only by destroying it ceases paying the property tax. You pay taxes on property all the time. Only if you tear it down, delete it, so it doesn't exist anymore, you stop paying for it. So, no object doesn't work for me, it's empty, there's no one in it, there's no business space issued, there's no income, etc. So there's no excuse. You own property, you're a taxpayer on that property, and that's the way it is in the whole world. So, don't worry, I see that many mayors and representatives of the municipalities have written letters these days, we won't allow it. Well, how you let our property tax come and you don't know how much money it is. Well, that increased your budget. You can see that the municipalities are filled with property tax budgets. How can you not see that something has grown drastically? You can see from the inflow of the budget. You can't take from me now the taxes you gave me and let me build, and then you charge me through taxes as long as the facility lasts. Every year, by little, by little, and again, you eat my entire facility through the duties that will be. So don't worry. I see that many mayors, the presidents of the municipalities have written letters these days – we will not allow it. How did you let your property tax come to you and you don't know how much money it was? That increased your budget, you see by the municipalities that they're full of property taxes. How can you not see that something has grown drastically? You can see from the inflow of the budget. Of course, you can't take the taxes now that you've given permission and allowed me to build, and then you charge me through the tax, as long as the facility lasts. Every year, little by little and again you eat my entire facility through the duties that will be. Do the math. There's no old-fashioned depreciation on private faces, but a full amount of property tax, which is a pretty big item. Therefore, do not be afraid, there will be these funds, and there is no reason to think about it, because every object that has been built, not registered, is subject to property tax. You don't have to legalize him, you don't have to sign him up, you don't have to do anything, you get a solution to the property tax. Every municipality will be served. Everyone's got a solution. That's a huge item, and that's why I'm saying you don't worry about it, because it's regulated by a new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24827	Thank you. We'll finish the replica, but then you can stay in the system, because I have a lot of reports regarding this amendment. The first reported is MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24828	Thank you, Vice President. The SPS parliamentary group when it proposed this amendment took into account that we should definitely and finally put an end to illegal construction. How did that happen, if so many objects were built after that date, maybe we should go and deal with it. Now, we need to tear down, and there are no possibilities and real resources to go and take down everything in Serbia, with all due respect to the Constitutional Court, all courts, but if so many criminal charges are filed, then I don't know what's waiting. I think given the number of buildings built that the minimum number of criminal charges was filed in accordance with the law to explain, we want to put an end to illegal construction, with the Law on Legalization of Objects and here to regulate this illegal construction. With the Law on Planning and Construction, I think we should finally introduce Serbia into what is called legal flows, legal construction and define something for the future. We have had many calls from citizens and our amendment to Article 28, which the government has accepted, concerning the compensation that citizens need to pay to take into account social cases. There must be 90% of social cases among them. None of us in the parliamentary group have any interest, nor has any object built after that date and are not guided by any personal interests. It's not our goal to protect those who illegally built buildings. I think that this procedure, as provided for by the proposed law, introduces us into the regular procedure as predicted by obtaining a building permit. This amendment is an amendment that we need to reach a consensus on, because we are the ones who need to send a message to finally resolve something in this country, to finally put an end to illegal construction, not to say - now this is discrimination. We can interpret that discrimination is also for those who have not arrived to apply until that date. With all due respect to both the Constitutional Court and the judiciary in Serbia, I think that as the National Assembly and as MPs, as a consensus, which I expect from all colleagues from the ruling coalition, I expect from all opposition parties, to support this amendment. What could be the consequence is eventually a constitutional court reaction again, but I think at least for a while until this law is passed, we can regulate that legal construction. After that, when we search the judiciary a little bit so that the courts are effective, then whoever goes illegally to builds, simply realizes they'll get criminal charges and won't even be allowed to think, not start building and finishing the facility. It's just amazing that after that date, so many objects appear, millions of objects. counterpart Susana Spasojevic is a little more concerned with the topic and the problem, more than a million facilities. Now what? Should we go down? Guys, let's go once, normally, to build like humans, right and right everywhere in the world, and to regulate that area and not torture those people who can't even join the power, because they haven't submitted a request by that date. I don't think that's human. It's not even human. Why? What's the difference between what he gave up by that date, and this one didn't give up, and now we can't attach it to electricity, and there's a lot of kids and living in difficult conditions and there's a social case. I think we should think about it one more time. As far as I can tell, there's a lot of understanding on the right, where the opposition comes from. I hope the other coalition colleagues who are gathered in power and who make this ruling majority think carefully and declare this. If we need to, we might as well have some talks with the Constitutional Court, even if we should use this amendment to make it acceptable for both the Constitutional Court and everything. Once again, I ask you to vote in voting day. It says that the committee has not accepted this amendment, although I am the chairman of the board, believe me it is only because some MPs have come out for a second, otherwise the Committee would have accepted the amendment. It was five-five, so it's clear what we want and what we wanted with this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24829	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24830	I understand, gentlemen Members of Parliament, the government has not accepted, the board has not accepted. As a minister, I can't accept if the inspector who in my jurisdiction filed a criminal report and wrote a solution, I'd crush all inspection services, humiliate them and adjudicate them. But you are Parliament, you are MPs, and you decide. I have to listen to what you vote for. You can vote, and if you provide the majority, I cannot not accept the majority of parliament. Parliament is about the legislation of the Holy One. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you agree and vote, as minister, I respect the decision of my parliament. Do you understand? I can't accept anything if all the inspectors under my jurisdiction have written reports, logs, etc., but if you agree and most MPs accept it, no one can kill it. That's your proposal and we're okay with it. Don't talk about it right now. You'll get a chance and vote for it. I don't mind. You can refuse any law that has been proposed and accepted. You can say most don't agree, what do we do? We can't make you vote. No problem, think about it. The fate of every illegal facility in Serbia is in your hands. If this Parliament makes a decision, everything else falls into the water because you are the most legislative body that has the right to do so. If the Constitutional Court breaks your decision, then there's nothing I can do. She may be down in two or three years, and by then maybe everyone will be legalized, signed up and finished. That's your thing. I can't accept it officially because of the people who did it, but I can't say no to you either, because you're deciding on it in the voting day. You can vote anything, and you can not accept anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24831	Thank you. Dejan Radenkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24832	I'll just take a minute. I've just called my fellow MPs. While you were talking in a joke there was one remark, and I sincerely hope that one day it will be in Serbia to decide in parliament. I would like to, with all the consultations that are needed, because it is true that, as a formal rule, we, as a legislative authority, decide, but we need further consultations and I appeal once more, nor have I pressured you as a minister to accept it, I fully understand you, but you must understand us as MPs, too. We all have contacts with the citizens. We're all in the field, and you know it, and I understand perfectly well that you can't even say it. You're probably thinking what we're thinking and you said in some way -- while the Constitutional Court is considering it, maybe we'll end it all up and put an end to it, which is also the goal of just once and for all putting an end to illegal construction. I'm coming back again, so no one can ever think in this country to stab an ass again, to do something illegal. We've had enough of this. Let's get this country right. That's exactly why we're talking, the Law on Legalization of the facility regulates illegal construction. We'll regulate the law on construction planning and set up a legal operation. Everything we need to attract the investor again, what we talked about, where we saw all the mistakes. I sincerely hope that this law will also get one broader consensus and get support and further improve in the public debate, and also later get one big support in parliament. Again, I urge my colleagues to think carefully, not because it is our amendment, the SPS parliamentary group, and it is not a demagogue, nor is it an advocacy to voters, let it be a common amendment. If it needs to be fixed, we'll fix it, it'll be a go-ahead of the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24833	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24834	I have the right to an MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24835	You have no right. You've got a line, Mr. Radenkovic. There are ten sentinels before you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24836	In the day of the vote, I will support this amendment by the MPs Susana Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic, but not for the reason that I would contaminate Mr Ilic, because we have a special relationship of mutual reciprocity - he always insults me when he sees me, and when I see him, the amendments write themselves, but for the reason why I really think this amendment is quality, and I don't think there's a question here at all whether something is constitutional or not constitutional. The provisions of this law or this entire law will be assessed as unconstitutional. So that you accept the 20th Amendment freely as a confirmation that more than one third of the provisions of the law did not really work, but it was only good for the quality and result of that one-third of the work of the Members of Parliament, and that is precisely through the submission of the amendment. Everything that represents the contents of my colleagues, which I really consider to be a quality amendment, I have stated in principle and debate, so this is how we support their position in the number of buildings built and after the date, I also spoke. I don't think there are any obstacles to this amendment being accepted here. A team before this issue should be regulated by this law. I repeat, this is not a lex specialis law and I don't know why this issue would be regulated by some future law on planning and construction. It's not clear to me, of course, but as a retrograde, which I like to erase, I'll support those constructive ones who like to write. In voting day, I will support my colleagues' amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24837	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24838	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I think the minister has helped us a lot, but let us, in a way, get the minister down. It remains to be seen with the ruling SNS parliamentary group what they think. But there is one thing we need to clarify. Criminal charges are not analyzed by this amendment. The one who worked illegally, the criminal charges go. We just want to make some cut and even somehow warn the problem at the Constitutional Court because the request can't be a waterhouse, if I may say so. Which makes it a request, it's not a law, it's a request for someone to do something, and now it's a date until something is legalized. The law is when you adopt something that's a waterhouse. The demand of a citizen to legalize something can hardly be a watershed. The other thing I'm trying to say is, maybe it was the little minister who praised it in law, that in some ways the municipal administration was more bound to be involved with the citizens and to be interested in legalising and enrolling in the final case. It's exactly what you were saying, because it's an additional income to the municipality, and it's a permanent income to the municipality. We're just waiting for any Pera from any of the villages in Serbia to apply for legalisation. He has no reason. No one will crash there, but the municipal administration should be interested in legalizing this facility to enter legal assets, if I may say so, and to get an account to pay taxes. We're just leaving the citizens at will here. I have to say, I think I appreciate it if the municipal administration was interested and they were interested in the previous law, so they signed. You know how? She sees the house and says she has 50 squares, so the other one has 100 squares. It has to be seen how many squares it really is because it's the community's income, because it's a permanent income, you've said it great. I have to be honest, sometimes it seems to me like a state, and here the municipal administration is not interested in what it will collect as income but is waiting for someone from Belgrade to transfer money to the municipality to live, not to make sure it collects the legal income that belongs to it under the administration. Next thing. I have to say, it's time to start using technical achievements. The question can be opened, what if someone builds it tomorrow and they'll say he built it before this law. He's got gouglart. Give me a picture. Let them look at these in the community services and say – sir, this is the date you were photographed on the Googlert. There was an object or it wasn't an object. He was like that or he wasn't like that. I think even here it was supposed to be built in. It's a legal picture of a technically sophisticated mechanism to know if the object existed or didn't exist. I don't see why we're running away from these technical achievements that have been accepted in the world as something that exists. One is a camera, and this is a big camera, so let me call it that, which exists. I think we should use it if not in this law, then in the next one we should draw a line with the date of painting this country of Serbia using Googlert to know what was made and what was not made, and not to discuss whether something was made in 1967, 1987, 1997 or 2009 or 2013 in September or October of the month. For this reason, and this reason that you spoke of in favour of this amendment, for the simple reason that you spoke of the municipality's income, and on the other hand, the reduction of income, i.e. In the absence of income when construction starts, we care that millions and 400,000 objects are legalized, not 700,000. Let's face it, 700,000 objects are huge money. It's state property. It's something that increases this country's GDP. Now he's nowhere to be found, and objectively, it's the value of a country. It's not just the value of a citizen. The value of one country is the value of the property of all citizens, and now we have that 700 thousand, and we say that we are poor by statistics, and if these millions and 400,000 objects came in, we would be at least 5% to 10% richer, and now we're so rich that they're not on paper. When they're not in law, on paper, in a municipal cab, they don't exist. They exist objectively. He's not in the IRS, and that's the most important thing. When he's not in the IRS, there's no income. We have an obligation to send a message to the municipal administration that she should be interested in collecting her own income in this way and not in a way that prevents construction and that's why I think it's important that we support it. If we need to shape it along with you, first of all with the SNS parliamentary group, if we need to make this amendment, we are prepared to do something like that. It's important to us that millions and 400,000 objects enter the IRS. Let me make this simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24839	National MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24840	For the first time, I thought I would agree with Minister Velimir Ilic on one issue, which is when he said that the facilities that were built after the ninth month of 2009 could not be legalised, i.e. for which a legalisation application was submitted in 2010. And I thought we'd agree on how we should overcome it. He said that we should overcome it by entering these facilities into a regular procedure for issuing a building permit. That would be really fine. You would retain legal certainty, allow these people to enter the process of obtaining a building permit and meet all these requirements that SPS colleagues are proposing, in one unconstitutional way that they propose. However, when you said it would enter the Law on Planning and Construction, we already disagree. So, you in the Law on Planning and Construction, which should be involved in future construction, re-enter the elements of the Law on Legalization. I'm offering one proposal, Minister, that may be for thinking and for the board, to do as it was done in one country next door, to add one position to the Law on Legalization, to say - for the facilities built after this deadline so that they can enter the process of obtaining a building permit. So, if the member you planned in the Law on Planning and Construction were to accept as a modeled amendment that they submitted and that would not be contrary to the Constitution and in this law would regulate the issue of these objects. Never allow those builders to enter the legalisation process by the principles that apply to those by 2009, because that's how you reintroduce legal uncertainty again, you reintroduce chaos, which you a little bit too, acting like you were at the market, earlier. You say, "I have not destroyed a single object since I was a minister. Well, who are you to say that you didn't take down any single facility? The law says and writes well when objects are destroyed - when they are in a watery area, when they are in the area where the rinks, in the area where the highways pass, etc. You have a duty to enforce the law. I hope you don't turn this politics into something, that you're going to make it right in this respect, and that you're going to say that you're going to respect the law in the future and that you're going to allow these inspections, that they put black ribbons around some objects, or red ones, that no further construction is allowed, and that the objects are before the collapse, that after the wind takes away those tapes and they continue to build. In your time, Mr. Minister, and this has been warned by your colleagues from the ruling coalition, that illegal buildings are now being built on Zlatibor, etc., various valleys and various hills. You have to prevent it, not act around – when someone legalizes it, it won't be under the Constitution, but vote it out, so it doesn't matter, in three years until the Constitutional Court does, it will already be legal objects. That's not how a minister behaves, who cares about respect for the law. So I suggest that, in agreement with the applicants of the amendments, together with the committee in charge, you enter into a procedure to correct this amendment and thus address this issue in a quality way. And when we talk about planning and building, let's talk about planning and building without talking about illegal objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24841	Thank you. The next reported MP is Aleksandar Senic. I beg your pardon, Minister Ilic has contacted us earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24842	You know what, I don't want to talk right now – I didn't say and I support it. I said Parliament decides. I can't change the majority's decision if you vote something, it's voted, not a single minister, not a single government. We as Government have not accepted, the board has not accepted, but that also means that parliament can. Parliament can replace the government tomorrow if it wants, the minister and whoever it wants. I can't tell you what you're voting for right now. You can vote whatever you want most of the time. You are the Serbian parliament that decides in the voting day you make decisions. Second, I didn't take down any objects. Why? He's not destroying the Ministry of Objects, he's destroying the local administration. She's getting a solution, and she won't take it down. What am I gonna do now? I can't order someone to crash in a city, if they say -- we don't have money, we don't have a crash team, or they simply write a memo saying they're not able to execute a solution. What am I gonna do now? To change local administration I can't. I can only make some comments publicly, etc. So the local administration doesn't crash. Second of all, even the citizens weren't so sassy. No object is built on a pathway, streets, intersections, etc. It's a very small number, a very small number. They asked where to make it, and they built it there. So, no major investment facility was particularly threatened with illegal construction, and that's what cities regulated through their spatial plans, through their general urban detailed plans and incorporated all of it into one continent. Therefore, I explained that I am powerless if parliament votes anything and the government is powerless if it votes. Let parliament do its job. In voting day, we'll see what you vote for. Maybe you'll accept one part of the amendment. I'd just end up with one story. It's true there are a lot of amendments, I've talked about what it's about, we've accepted some, but it's about whether it's seven days or 30 days. We thought this was about some petty finesse in certain members of the law. People said that 30 days is enough, that seven is small, so now it's not a problem if they're asking for 30 days, to move that deadline now. It's all finesse. It hasn't changed an entire member of the law, etc. In the day of the vote, you decide, gentlemen of the Parliament, and all that you decide we will honor. I, as Minister, will respect what you vote for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24843	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24844	Just for a little while. Minister, are you in a position to accept this proposal, that the member you were planning to install into the Planning and Construction Act is being implemented in an amendment submitted by the SPS parliamentary group? Nothing changes here, you remain satisfied, and the Constitution and the law are respected, that the objects that were built after that deadline... (Zoran Angelkovic, from the post: You defend our amendment. ) It is not by all accounts that there is no interest in this amendment. Don't talk loud as I speak, don't be impatient. So this amendment would be completed by implementing the article that you planned for the Law on Planning and Construction and thus would all be satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24845	Thank you. Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24846	Mr. MP, the lawyers we worked with, it's a huge team of people, you know who worked on the law, it's extremely high-quality people, and it's a very important law, as well as the Office of Quick Answers and many institutions from Europe and the world, as well as many examples, all thought it would be necessary to leave a little window if, in ten years later, some buildings that are not jeopardizing anything, and that they're built by some circumstances, must have some opportunity not to be broken down, etc. They thought it was that story. However, I am not a lawyer and I will consult the lawyers who do this, we will discuss it and by the day of voting you will certainly read about it, we will talk about it, etc. Maybe we'll talk to the heads of Parliament. But it is very important that you in the voting day decide and everything you decide, I really don't want to comment on anything that Parliament votes on. You can, you have a lot of lawyers here, good lawyers, to consult, to talk, and if you make any decisions in voting day, we have to respect it, because we respect this Parliament and respect every MP. It's you who decide most of the votes. So I wouldn't want to suggest anything. You always have the right to vote whatever you consider to be good for the citizens of Serbia. If you think it will be a good thing, I have no right to put pressure on parliament or MPs right now, right now. It's you who decide. If you agree to do that, if you adopt something, I have to respect it, because you chose me and the entire government. Okay, you're not, but there are some who are and most people are always respected. So let's respect most of them this time. Most people will decide what most people decide, and that's the way it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24847	Thank you. The next reported MP is Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24848	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I am amazed by your discussion. I wonder if you remember what you said three weeks ago? Let me remind you, in my discussion in principle, I was saying that this bill is unconstitutional, because that you read the Constitutional Court's decision, which has been declared unconstitutional by the previous law, you could read that the law is unconstitutional because it contradicts the principles of unity of the legal order. This means and writes in the light of the Constitutional Court Decision, that you could see that the law had to apply only to objects built until 13 May 2003, because since 13 May 2003, illegal construction has been a criminal offence. Whether the deadline or the border will be 11 September 2009 or the day of entry into force of this new law, which will be clearly adopted, the law will be unconstitutional. So I suggest you accept this amendment that they have given from the SPS and that you simply come out to meet them, because this amendment is nothing but a pre-election amendment, otherwise I wouldn't have called it. We're willing to talk and give support to this amendment, but before you know it, you can't have two arches. Let me remind you one more time, you said that between 2003 and 2009, millions of objects were built and you asked me, do you want to tear it down? I won't, that's your word. I didn't take any stenographic notes because they don't mean anything to you, whatever it says there, you have your own interpretation. Now, I'm asking you -- if you've already spoken to these lawyers and the Constitutional Court, they had to tell you that the law was only suitable for buildings that were built illegally until 13 May 2003, because that day it became a criminal act of illegal construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24849	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24850	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I called 40 minutes ago. Mr. Minister, really a little bit of seriousness to bring into this debate. You're an authorised representative of the government here, an authorized representative of the legislator of this law. So, you've just said one thing that's a message to the public a little while ago, which is that you haven't crashed, or you're going to tear down illegally built objects. That's how you mined your own law. We don't expect you to personally go and tear down objects, but the law provides for the collapse as a sanction in case the facilities are not legalized. What does that mean now, Mr. Minister, if you do not give up this bill and remain in all the provisions proposed? What does that mean, that you will bring in one sublegal act to order all those who will be forced to implement the provisions of this law – do not destroy illegally built objects? Mr. Minister, there is a lack of one elemental honesty towards the public, according to its own legal act proposed also to this Parliament. Why are we even discussing whether we're going to delete those dates until the facility is thought to have been built and can enter legalization procedures? What's the general debate today in the Assembly if you don't intend to enforce the law? So that, Mr. Minister, is a problem with the form that has a problem content, and this whole law has a problem content. If you disagree on how you explain it, and what messages do you send to the public, what will you have to do with the implementation of this law and the legal text itself? Therefore, you are merely devising the entire law, devising the work of MPs in this assembly. Once again, I call upon you, go ahead and withdraw the law from the procedure. It's actually the only real solution when we talk about this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24851	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24852	The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly do everything in the best interest of the citizens. However, I believe that the text is as suggested in the amendment walking on the knife. So we're getting back into the situation where the Constitutional Court refuses something like this, and I certainly call on my colleagues to talk about it and to come up with a solution that will certainly be in the interest of all Serbian citizens. I would like to say something concerning what my colleague used to say earlier, when he said that this amendment was an advocacy to the citizens of Serbia. Then what were the amendments and additions to the 2006 laws, then amendments and additions to the 2009 laws? Then what was it? Secondly, the crime was not regulated by the Law on Planning and Construction and not in 2003, but regulated by Criminal Law in 2002. So you got a little mixed up, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24853	The following has been reported to be a folk MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24854	I thank the chairman. I just wanted to comment on something that the minister had talked about before all these discussions, and it basically fits into this amendment that we talked about. So, first of all, we need to define that the municipal infrastructure for the facilities is built by local self-government. With a view to this, local self-government should also be able to charge for this municipal infrastructure. You ministers know that Article 27 of this Bill on Legalisation states that the compensation for the regulation of construction land is determined on the basis of criteria, degree of municipal equipment, annual planning programmes for construction land, urban zone, purpose and area of the building. Local self-governments have to respect, have communal infrastructure to get investors to build for them. When investors, they won't come to the naked land, to the ice, where there's no water or sewerage, where there's no road, where there's no power, where there's no PTT network, etc. So you need to know that if local self-government invests in municipal infrastructure, then it has to charge a certain fee for municipal infrastructure. Also, you should know that the Law on the financing of local self-government implies that the fee goes to the local budget and, of course, the property tax goes to the local budget as well. Since we live in this country today where the ruling coalition is in a group of those Eurofanatics and is doing everything in the EU, I would remind you that in the EU, for example. in Slovenia, the property tax went to local self-government but then after a certain period when all the facilities were listed then the state passed the law and only then took half of the income to local self-government and transferred to the state budget because they had no place to finance. So do we. Instead of charging for that legalisation, instead of collecting what is normal and logically charged where no one complains, where there are no problems, we raise taxes, we raise VAT on hotel services, which we will soon have here in front of us in Parliament, we raise various burdens on ordinary citizens who did not deserve it, and so we fill the budget. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, if he were to work in some order and resolve all those constitutional requirements submitted by the DSS, surely this amendment would not have come to this law if it had been settled before the Constitutional Court in one five, six years, so that we could finish all that is necessary and that all objects are legalised.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24855	Mr. Senić, you wanted a replica of Mrs. Rakic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24856	I think it's much more important to tell the truth than to say anything even if it wasn't true. I just want to confirm that the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, which took place on 13 May 2003, provide for those who illegally build construction buildings to be held accountable for their actions, i.e. for your work. This was also pointed out by the Constitutional Court by its decision declaring the unconstitutional Law on Planning and Construction. Part of the 2009 Planning and Construction Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24857	I will now read you the order of the announcement: Milan Lapčević, Marijan Rističević, Dejan Radenkovic, Zoran Angelkovic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Srdjan Šin. You're giving up, Mr. Angelkovic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24858	When an hour goes by, it's hard for you to have in your head what you wanted to say at the start, but come on. I really don't understand the concept proposed by the minister after all these polemics and replicas. He tells us that parliament has the power to adopt any law it gives, to accept these or those amendments, but does not tell us what the ministry's position is if we have an authorised representative in parliament. Mr. Minister, we're here to listen. I hope that doesn't make it hard for you. I'll make some arguments, so you answer and say it's wrong. Don't be angry. There's nothing to be concerned about. It just takes a little respect to listen, you don't have to look at me. (Velimir Ilic): I don't have to look at you, it's enough to listen to you. I don't like you. Now whether I'm cute or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24859	Please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Lapchev, please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24860	For the first time, I have called, Mr. Minister, whether I am fond of you or not, it is your private matter, but it is your duty as a minister who participates in this debate equally with all MPs to respect the dignity of the entire assembly, including me as a National MP. You said you weren't going to tear down illegal facilities and propose a law saying that objects that were built by 11 September 2009 could be legalized. Question number one -- how many buildings were built after 9/11? Do we have that information? It's estimated that somewhere between 200 and 300,000 objects. What about those facilities? Do they exist or do they not exist? How do we resolve their status? It's logical if they can't be legalized to be destroyed. If we don't want to take them down, we don't want to legalize them. They're floating in the air. Question number two. Since 2003 it has been a crime to build buildings without a building permit for both investors and performers. Is there also how many criminal charges filed against performers' investors? What about those reports, what's their destiny? Is there a criminal record against one of the inspectors here from 2009 to today, and we know that objects were created after 2009 when it was explicitly stated in the law that it was a crime. I'm not transferring that to you. Your predecessor, Mr. Dulic, made it a general mess until you came to be minister. I believed you when we discussed the Law on the Registration of Property from the Spring of this year, in your announcement that the new Bill on Legalisation of Objects would solve this problem permanently, that everyone would get the opportunity to legalize and that we would once underline the line that no one would be able to build without permission, that there would be strict penalties, sanctions, etc., but that we must draw the line because we have a general chaos in the catastrus, infrastructure, construction of buildings, in complete construction. Please give us your solution as to what we're going to do with the objects that occurred in the post-2009 period. How do we resolve their status? Do we have any idea how to solve it? Also, I'd like you to explain to me the concept of not paying utility fees. As I understand who wants to build, can build, should not pay any compensation but later when building an object and when getting a used permit and entering books, pay a tax on property. That means that I who paid that utility fee, which was pretty high, will now pay the property tax, so I will practically double-finance that municipal equipment, and those who build further, pay on one basis. Maybe I didn't get that right. On the other hand, I'm not sure that these millions and 400,000 objects that are illegal, which you and everyone knew were well built on by people who are weaker property, and that's also one of the reasons why over 300,000 objects, that's also an estimate that hasn't been reported, and it was built in 2009, it didn't apply for legalisation. Because people just didn't have the financials to get into the whole process. Then how do we resolve their status? How would they even pay the property tax if they couldn't apply under the previous Law on Legalisation and pay that minimum fee that moved for a 100-square facility for barely a few hundred euros? So it's a concept that's unsustainable. If you don't have a budget to build a local infrastructure, you've stiffed the possibility of further construction. I don't think there is a concept anywhere in the world, or perhaps there is a concept in order countries where taxes are paid regularly and neatly, but I doubt it could work in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24861	Thank you. Next reported is MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid that most of this law is seen as a law on illegal objects, and I'm only referring to housing. Since I live in the country, there are some 3,000 inhabitants, there are smaller villages, these illegal facilities include various sheds, pigs, chickens, etc. We have to keep this in mind, purely for the sake of the citizens, to try to explain what our dilemmas are, and because of our dilemma, it can lead to an even greater confusion, but the same confusion of the government due to the law of enrollment of illegal objects in the building block. So it's about the facilities that were provided for by the Law on Legalisation and that were built by the 11th. 09. In 2009, and I filed that request, and then, as I recall, there were 720,000 items. So, by this law, they have the right to legalize objects. Others have no right to do so, but those who have built their facility by that date and have not applied for legalisation, the law that this Assembly passed on to register immovableity, or the enrolment of illegal cadastre objects, acquire the right to enroll in that cadastre, regardless of the time limit. What I want to ask the minister, what about those who have started the legalisation process, paid the wars, and now they can't and now they want to change, not to go to legalisation, but to go to enrollment of illegal objects in the immobilization cadasar, or whether it's possible for them to move from legalization to enrolment, since they no longer have the money to pay some compensations that are in certain municipalities, since I come from the Indjia municipality, and there is a very expensive legalisation, a variety of interest, so that people give up and want to cross. The minister says it's possible for them to cross over, I'm referring to the enrollment of illegal immovable objects. What does an illegal object even mean? So it's illegal. All the facilities that are illegal were built against the law. For some built after a certain date, the construction was a criminal offence, and earlier it was an offence. In essence, both the two and the third objects were built illegally, i.e. against the law. Many have talked about tax here, and I agree that taxes are paid, but especially we who come from the village, especially in Vojvodina, most of the infrastructure is made with a meat contribution. This law provides that the municipality can take that into account, but I'm afraid there will be municipalities that won't take it, but I want to say that one tax has already been paid when it was built. Sales tax has been paid, now it's called VAT, and it has previously been shared between local self-government and republics in certain percentages. So the local self-government had already benefited, because the construction material, which had been built on these buildings, was taxed. Of course, we cannot encourage illegal construction, but I liked Mr Radenkovic's amendment, or the SPS amendment, as far as I can see, two MPs suggested it. I have one dilemma, this amendment was supported by one lawyer, who is now not here or a lawyer, who asked for article 5 to be deleted, and then supported this amendment to change attitude 1. Now I'm a peasant, I'm not a lawyer, but how can a lawyer suggest that this amendment be adopted, and that an amendment be voted upon to delete Article 5. I am now asking you as a peasant, and here there is a professor of rights who did not notice it, unfortunately, how can we adopt the amendment if it happens, since the amendment has not been withdrawn, Mrs Batic, if its amendment has been adopted, delete Article 5, how will we accept Mr Radenkovic's amendment, how is it possible at all to change attitude 1 in the member who deleted it? So, I am neither a lawyer nor a professor at law school, but it was logical for me to be such a kind of lawyer with the reminder of a professor at law school, says, I am withdrawing my amendment to delete Article 5 and support an SPS amendment that suggests that attitude 1 is changed or that all objects built until the date of entry into force of this law be subject to legalisation. That would be fair of the lawyers, and I'm not a lawyer, but if we're being edited by lawyers, it looks like we're going to go very badly, because I don't know the lawyers are being handed over by professors, and who's going to teach teachers, that holy god knows. As far as illegal objects are concerned, this assembly has the right to amnesty, can amnesty of illegal construction at various times, and of course it has at one point become a criminal offence and no one has the right to support the committing of criminal acts, but the Assembly can decide to legalize objects, and owners can criminally answer for the fact that during the time it was illegally built, at least as far as I see it as a peasant. We are not asking this law to erase the crimes they have committed, we just want by adopting amendments to the SPS parliamentary group that objects are legal, and those who have committed a certain crime, we are not asking them to be amnesty. That's why I'm close to what the minister didn't say, and I'm an MP, so I can say, that I'm also likely to vote for the SPS amendment, but I've never been particularly close to them, but the amendment is rational, because it refers to objects that were built after 11. The 09th which cannot be legalized by this law cannot be typed into a equities cadasar as illegal objects. We don't want to tear them down, and the most rational thing is that we don't wait for a new law on planning and construction, because if it is, but the most realistic thing is that we vote, and I'm close to supporting this amendment, with a small million of these objects in the country, pigs, chickens, which are made out of necessity, because of the economic interest, or because of the professional activity of the peasants, because it needs to make a quick conclusion of some sort of cake, a pigsty, and that, according to the new law on planning and construction, is also an object. I don't support this illegal construction, but a lot has happened and we can't just go over it and wait for some future law. Also, here it is said that I agree once with the opposition that objects built in water operations must be destroyed. I agree with that. We have a problem in India. Those who exercise power there have built a lead recycling plant on waterfall, and ecological consent has been given by the regional Secretariat for Ecology. You know how they gave it? The applications were submitted to a number of parcels, where they were agreed, and then they said it was a technical mistake, so they built on a waterway, on a regional waterway for whose borders the government of the Republic of Serbia is competent, and that all this would be harmonised, since it was a regional urban plan, a spatial plan, etc. And the regulation plans, so that they wouldn't change everything, they decided to change the spatial plan, so they came up with a spatial plan that still exists, and there's no such thing as a spatial plan, and a lead recycling factory was built. In all my complaints and objections and all the criminal charges, everyone remained deaf and silent, not the Republic Ministry of Control, but, behold, wonders, the law on the transfer of jurisdiction belonged to the province of Vojvodina and, behold, the one who allowed such construction, the president of the municipality, became secretary of agriculture, water industry and in certain ways became responsible for his misdemeanours. I want to support this, that especially contaminants, and the lead recycling plant is an obvious polluter, on the water supply of wood are not to be scraped, and I support that opposition's position to bring such illegal objects down immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24863	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24864	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, therefore, we have an extremely important law ahead of us, and I must assess that the full discussion in the entire Parliament is extremely correct, regardless of certain differences, which is also logical when it comes to such a bill. I must stress first of all that this Article 5, which is extremely controversial, and complete, the law would not be in front of this Parliament today if the Constitutional Court had repeatedly tried to solve this big problem in Serbia, did not practically put one bill like this and put aside earlier draft laws. He's got a lot of amendments. We had a very constructive atmosphere on the board a few days ago. So, the minister has accepted a lot of amendments. Today, from various discussions, even certain amendments that are very logical, I must say, it is extremely logical that what the SPS colleagues are proposing. There is only one particular trap for all of us here, whether the Constitutional Court will assess whether it's constitutional, and we can come into a situation where an extremely great effort for both this ministry and all the people working on the law, that we may be in a position to vote, and that after a few years, or for a certain time, depends on when the Constitutional Court will assess whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution, again some future assembly of parliament, or some other minister, enters the same problem. This is one life-long law, life-form. This is one law that means a lot to the citizens of Serbia, above all both in legal transport and in security. It seems to me that all of that, I have looked at the objections the Constitutional Court had before, that this ministry and the legislators of this law had in mind, and have done a lot of practical things according to the remarks. I think the law is good. Some colleagues say the content isn't right, absolutely not. Is all the solutions ideal, the time will show, but surely she remarked the minister who said at one point that for a few more days to be seen, I'm sure it was relevant, Mr. Minister, that the lawyers who work on this law once again see if they can support anything, whether it's in accordance with the Constitution, there's the main brake of all that. Therefore, I must express one general agreement with certain colleagues who have made certain remarks. The exceptional atmosphere that was on the board, it is here today in parliament, and I think that with this kind of work and this way, and with this kind of discussion at all, it will find a good solution, and I repeat, to find a solution that will certainly be, or not sure, never be safe, but to rule out the possibility that possibly the Constitutional Court, through a certain amendment, something that we eventually accept, which could be such a bill to bring down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24865	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24866	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very interesting amendment that has been submitted and which is said to be – that practically a building permit, or a useful permit, can and should be issued in accordance with this law for all buildings built, or reconstructed or built without a building permit, or approval for construction, until the very entry into force of this law. I would also refer to some discussions that were very interesting when it comes to this amendment. We've actually heard these various suggestions. First, let me tell you, it doesn't mean that if something wasn't recorded on the orthophoto and there's no object built on that orthophoto video that won't be there in a month and a half. Do you know that on the Internet you can get the video, in the photo store, any building you want at any location, that's the first thing you should know. The other thing is, we heard an interesting observation that it's bad for graduate lawyers to make laws for us. I also like that they create a reality for us at all, and I like that criticism at the expense of Alexander Vukic, the first vice president of the government, because he's also a graduate lawyer and I am absolutely convinced that all the speakers who criticized the law-writers were referring to Alexander Vukic, especially those of the Progressive Coalition. It's good that now that you're celebrating the fifth birthday that you haven't worked, you're advancers starting to argue. What's allowed for you is allowed for me. I think it's a good thing that lawyers write laws and that the profession writes laws and not laymen, because then everyone would have Dušan's code, not the laws of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand. When we talk about this law, if we accept this amendment in a month and a half, two, three, six months, we're going to have a new law on legalisation to say, let's now, by some May 2014, all that was built without permission to legalize. It has to be done once and say when we want to and we want Serbia to be an orderly society, an orderly republic in which laws are respected, in which the Constitution is respected, and to say where am I the zero point where we're going to cross? Otherwise, if you really and constantly push anything that's uncomfortable under the carpet, it starts to smell, and then the next day it's impossible to correct it by any effort, any legislative activity, no matter who exercises power in this country. So, to finish, I think one moment we need to show the state's determination to get some things in this country settled. It is the only way we will step out of that Balkan groat and walk through European civilizations, through developed European states that are developing in order, respect for the law, respect for the Constitution and elemental standards. But all these countries were created as serious countries by writing laws in those countries the most professional, the smartest, the most educated. If you have any criticism at the expense of a lawyer, you go into the arena and tell them in person, not like this on a small door.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24867	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24868	Thank you. I had no intention of talking about this amendment, but simply, since Minister Ilic said something besides what is in the amendment, he mentioned a new law on planning and construction, I think I should say a few words about it. Mr. Ilic, illegal objects in this country have been created for several reasons. One reason is that citizens did not have the money to pay compensation for the construction land, another reason is the fact that it was a very complicated procedure to issue a building permit or a building permit, so the citizens reached for illegal construction. The third fact is that the competent building inspectors did not carry out their work well and professionally during some time. You spoke earlier about a new draft law on planning and construction, saying that the new law would be possible for citizens to receive construction permits within seven days. You also said that these citizens and legal persons would not have to pay compensation for the construction land, but that this would be compensated through tax property. I must remind you, Mr. Ilic, that you were once the Minister of Capital Investment, who was also in charge of issuing a building permit and building approval. The ministry didn't do a good job back then. You were in the debate, in principle, saying that all ministers were equally guilty of illegal construction, but that if ministers were doing the job properly in Serbia would have been a revolution. I can agree with you here, because for millions and 400,000 objects in Serbia, it's hard for someone to take responsibility for destroying such a thing. Now I have to ask you -- on what grounds do you say no compensation should be paid for the construction land that really needs income in local self-government? It can't and shouldn't be compensated by a property tax. You can't pay for that when you get a used permit. You're saying that now it's going to be a practice that what the local self-government built should be charged, and if a particular facility was built by an investor, for example, I introduced water, electricity, it doesn't have to pay, and so does today's law. So if the investor, according to today's law, did the plumbing himself, made the way himself, brought the electricity himself, he did not have to pay that part of the compensation for the construction land under the applicable law. It's a bad thing to do that when you get a used permit. I agree with you that this price can't be high, so you mention 300 euros per square, it's probably somewhere more than that, but there are local self-governments that are very poor, Mr. Minister. The government has reduced at least 20% of local self-government revenues through company tax cuts, income tax cuts and many other republican regulations. How do you think municipalities pave the streets, how can municipalities do plumbing and sewers if they don't have the means to do it? It's not true, Mr. Minister, I think you know that, but you may have made a slip, I don't want to say that you deliberately said that the depreciation has been lifted. Now it's given the possibility of depreciation being 1%, so up to 1%, it was 0.8% earlier. When the bill was explained by Mladjan Dinkic and when we MPs talked about that it was nonsense to give local self-government the opportunity to reduce depreciation to zero, his justification for it was - if property tax increases, let citizens replace the president of the municipality. You were talking today about the property tax being increased. As a member of the LDP parliamentary group, I believe that the property tax cannot be increased, citizens no longer have a place to pay, Mr. Minister. You can't use republican regulations to take income from local self-government and make local self-government grow property tax. What to pay poor citizens for. There's no need to introduce it. You were talking about the property tax as compensation for the construction land. I listened very carefully. Also, when we talk about enrolment of property rights and 100 euros and a million 400 or million and 500 thousand facilities, it is income for the state, you will agree, if everyone enters their rights in the 150m-euro immobility cadastre. It's a republican income. In this way, you are artificially increasing the gross social product and are fictitiously reducing public debt compared to that GDP. It's the government's goal to fictitically reduce public debt in such a way. That's why citizens don't get a building permit, so you simply sign them up for a cadastre and thus give local self-government the opportunity to charge them a property tax. That's the facts. You spoke, Minister, in the debate, in principle, that there are one 30 lawyers missing in the castles in Serbia, so that you send lawyers from Kragujevac, for example, to other municipalities. When we were here in parliament discussing salaries of workers in the catastries of the Republic Geodetic Institute, one of the amendments was that the salary was not only increased to the workers of the geodetic profession, but also to those graduate lawyers. You remember that. And you've been to it in principle. That's what a lot of MP groups have been up for here. What happened in voting day? That amendment didn't go through. So today, cataster workers who are graduate lawyers have fewer salaries for the same job than those who are geodetic professions. How do you expect to have lawyers in the Republic Geodetic Institute, so you won't have them? That's not your responsibility. You said earlier that MPs were voting, and that is what MP groups are responsible for that which they did not vote on in the day of the vote. You said, Mr. Minister, about turning to Mr. Senic, because you said you wouldn't tear down the facilities, and then you said you didn't think it personally, so, of course, you don't personally tear down the facilities, but it's not mostly local self-government, and there's nothing you can do about it, but you said the ministry didn't tear down the facilities. That's not true. There are facilities for which permission to build an issue exclusively to the ministry. Ten million in the republic's budget are scheduled to be destroyed by the ministry. So, not by local self-government. Please, really, when you speak in this House to speak as it is and specifically. So that you could crash, show the fact, you were talking about it in principle, when you said I was right that the RTB Bor Toplice didn't have a license, so you retroactively had to make papers, is that, for one of the fins once, the URS, and today the SNS that I see can go with a broken leg to the Arena, and it can't solve the problem of the license. You had to solve his 300m-euro investment license problem. I understand that you as a minister do not want to tear down such an investment because the state has provided guarantees, nor will that 300m euros be paid by RTB, but by all citizens of this country. Are you asking your colleagues in the government, Mr. Bačević, for example, how is it possible that in the last three months RTB Bor, which should somehow return these loans, has six times less copper production, not mining ore, means pure electrolysis copper than anticipated? What does that mean? That means all the burdens of these investments will fall on the citizens? Will he bear any responsibility, this Blagoje Spashowski? He won't. Minister, I have to ask you, since this is a crime of construction without a building permit, did you write this gentleman a criminal report, not you, but your competent inspector? Who protects that feather, I say, sometimes the SPS, so the URS, so now the SNS, that gentleman in RTB Bor, who doesn't just do it without a building permit? That's how RTB Bor Club works, so that's how the Hotel "The Lake" works, so now it works all over the municipality of Bor. So he builds circular flows without permission, a home for old faces without permission, a zoo, a green boulevard. In doing so, it forces municipal administration workers to retroactively issue papers. Finally, some of these poor workers will be responsible for all the haughtiness of Mr. Blago Spashowski. So, Minister, like this, this law is really bad. I don't think you're familiar with planning and building, you're those professions. You used to say that it was enough for legalization and photography, so you saw it couldn't do that. I think the amendment we're discussing right now is good. It's not your citizens' fault, not before 2009, or those after 2009, that they built without permission. No, I absolutely don't think I'm gonna justify these citizens. Maybe they were difficult procedures, complicated. If the new law on planning and construction really reduces the procedure, that permit, I'll take your word for it in seven days, then absolutely, it's that we should support this amendment, put an end to illegal construction, and further allow all citizens to work exclusively and by law only.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24869	The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24870	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, we have been talking for over an hour and a half about this good amendment submitted by the SPS, namely Mrs Susana Spasojevic and counterpart Dejan Radenkovic. I think this amendment actually hit the whole essence and intensity that wanted to achieve this law on the legalization of illegally built objects. What we talked about all these weeks, what we talked about with the objects that were created after 11 September 2009, and today it is 2013, so we entered the fifth calendar year, unfortunately, for various reasons it was built during that period, and four years old, a lot of illegal objects. The reasons and causes should be sought in places where the conditions for building these facilities are decided, and these were mostly local self-governments. As a result, they were not up-to-date in issuing a building permit, i.e. building permits, or for which the inspection bodies in these same local self-governments did not use existing legal solutions under the Law on Planning and Construction and Sancation and prevented illegal construction from starting, that is the second question. But after four full years, in the end, we have the fact that in that period, tens of thousands of objects were built either built or upgraded, built. So, in a sense, this amendment solves a number of issues and dilemmas of many citizens who have appeared to us - what will happen to us who built after 2009 and during that time failed to reach a building permit through a regular procedure. The reason why the building permit could not be obtained, among other things, lies in the fact that in many local self-government urbanist-plank documents are not up-to-date, or in many even do not exist in that size and number, in those areas where citizens were interested in building their own, are mostly residential facilities. Finally, since a number of questions have been raised -- is this in accordance with the law, i.e. in the end line and with the Constitution? From my experience, I can tell you that, most often or very often, justice and law do not go hand in hand, unfortunately. Perhaps this amendment proposal of the SPS is not quite right, but it is certainly fair for these people to get a chance, as well as many of the previous years, not to say for decades, to have their decades of problems, to fit into the legal frameworks, and to once become citizens of the first order, or not to be discriminated on on any basis. I think that by accepting this amendment and following its acceptance and after the vote, or by adopting, the adoption of a new Law on Planning and Construction or the arrangement of space and construction, as it will already be called, from that moment on, a zero tolerance for each type and every kind of wild construction should be declared once and for all. Until then, is it possible? It is possible that all of our citizens, and it is, we have heard through several previous laws, during this year 1,300,000 objects, to meet these citizens and to sort out their problems, which are voluntary, which are unwittingly created and they objectively exist. Is it in accordance with the Constitution or not? We wouldn't have this law today, as a special law, if the Constitutional Court hadn't declared the previous Law on Planning and Construction against the Constitution. All the reasons why the Constitutional Court declared them against the constitution, this law has been removed. By adopting this law on legalisation, we are ultimately creating assumptions that these 1,300,000 objects are being introduced into legal frameworks, that they become legally visible and that from that moment on, definitely, even though construction without a building permit has been a criminal offence, but that from the moment of adoption of this law and the future Law on Planning and Construction, zero tolerance has been created for every kind of wild construction. Finally, in these 1,300,000 buildings, there are certainly a large number of workers who have singled out their entire working life through former SIZs for building one or two percent for solid housing, who have never received an apartment or an opportunity to get an apartment, but in this way, they had to solve a housing issue for themselves and their family. I would call on all MPs individually, according to my conscience, on the day of the vote, when we decide on this amendment, therefore, to amend to Article 5, which was submitted by Dejan Radenkovic and Suzana Spasojevic, to vote and accept and adopt this amendment and then to create preconditions to correct, or remove one big problem for all the facilities that were built in these four years, because otherwise, there would be one vacuum left where a large part of the objects would still be considered illegal and wild, and in the end it would not be resolved to fully address the legalisation of all objects, which, among other things, should be the intensity of the entire Law on Legalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24871	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Velickovic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24872	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that we haven't discussed this law in principle for ten hours, because it has shown here that in a debate in particular, instead of going faster, we have to keep ourselves more in principle, and less in particular, we seem to have become quite angry here. However, it will not diminish the quality of this law ahead of us. I have a proposal for the chairman. I think it would be a good idea for the Assembly to first discuss some points of the law, that when we have points of view, the attitudes and points of reference should be brought first by the amendment promoters, and only after the debate is opened. I think it would give a new quality, because in this case it's about the same point of view. In the case of this Article, paragraph 1, there are two conditions for the right of legalisation, which are the date on which the construction is completed and the date on which the application for legalisation is submitted, i.e. for registration. We've suggested that this second date be deleted. We find this less discriminatory towards other builders who built until 11 September 2009, and that the time of application for legalisation is extended by one year from the time of the adoption of the law. We think that this is more right and that this would be more correct for all those who have built up to that time. However, the Constitutional Court has said its own and said both conditions are necessary. And this is what we're talking about right now and what we're discussing here we can't change, or if we make a different decision and declare it, the Constitutional Court will annul this because it's unconstitutional. That's how I understand it. However, since about 700,000 objects have been reported for legalisation, that is quite a sufficient number, there remains about 600 and some of the facilities that need to be solved in other ways. There are ways to solve this. I'm saying this for the viewers who are watching us. I think the MPs know all this. I'm talking because it's very important. There's a possibility that they can legalize objects and those people who haven't applied for legalization. He'll have opportunities. By order of a construction inspection, and in a special administrative procedure, which will also provide for a new law now and well-developed, the Law on Planning and Construction, which is already in preparation, so that these people too, for all of these things we are wondering about now... This applies, if you remember, the first time I talked about the Law on Law of Registration for illegally built buildings I said that this whole process of decade of riding in construction and construction must be resolved gradually and gradually. This is the point. This was confirmed by the minister today through his presentation. This is the only way we're gonna be able to come up with a solution, but not so fast. And it can't suddenly break something that's been created for so long and hasn't ended for so long. This isn't the Ministry, and this government blames it. If we're looking for the culprit, we should be looking for the culprits in many governments and ministries before this government. We are particularly pleased that our amendments are in order. 15th and 16th adopt. We're sorry to hear that. An amendment to Article 13 that is identical to others and has not been adopted, and it is a basic amendment that should have been adopted in this law. We believe that this law with these improvements will be quite good and will satisfy its need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24873	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24874	Thank you. Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, as I have spoken under the previous amendment, I simply believe that this amendment is absolutely not in the spirit of this law. So, we're giving an additional year, if I understand that correctly, to have someone file a request. So now it takes a year to build another 100 or 200,000 objects. I don't think it's absolutely justified and simply different reasons and motives for submitting amendments are different. What we are offering as a solution, Minister, is, for example, to order the Republic of Geodetic Service to do satellite footage and on the day of the law's entry into force to distribute these satellite footage to local self-government and then, based on these satellite recordings, to legalize it. So, since we will most likely adopt this previous amendment to a member of the 5th SPS colleague, then in that case we will be able to put these objects into legalisation. Based on that satellite footage, anything that's done afterwards should be subject to sanctions, so the dragon penalties you need to bring into the Construction Planning Act, which should be here before us, and now it's in public debate. So that's the solution we're offering you, because you're looking for solutions. So we're not criticizing you, we're just trying to help you. Who's going to build the infrastructure, I repeat, in local self-government? If you can, you have opportunities as minister, therefore, not personally, but as minister, to define the means to build infrastructure in municipalities and cities. That's great. Then municipalities and cities don't have to come from municipal equipment, from compensation for construction land arrangements. But do you know how many business facilities have large assets by building certain facilities at certain locations and by which they would now give me so free of charge to join a communal infrastructure that is for example. local self-government built? So, let's work for free now, let's give the land, let's give the objects, let's give the country as we started. I think we should let local self-government decide for themselves on utility prices, because that's their income. So, these local self-governments, based on the market, demand, based on whether these are buildings built for residential construction, is this the first apartment, based on whether it is a business facility, whether it is a manufacturing facility, etc., depending on what these municipalities are forging in their environments, thus determining both the prices and letting the market say so. If these local self-governments realize that they can't pay for municipal equipment, that they can't pay for those revenues, they'll certainly reduce municipal equipment by making decisions. On the contrary, if they see that it costs a lot of money to invest in that municipal infrastructure, then they will raise the price. So the market should say that, and the ministry should not say, especially when it is not such a law on funding local self-government, that municipal equipment will not be income. We need free to do communal infrastructure, and the citizens will join in as they will and will not pay anyone anything? I repeat, we raise VAT, we raise other charges, and this is where we leave those who build illegally to pay for nothing. I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24875	Thank you. National MP Slobodan Jeremic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24876	It is extremely incorrect that some MPs from one or the only group of MPs are trying to translate something here into a personal matter. There's nothing personal here. I don't have any interest in this. I just have to say here that last time I discussed it, I said that there was no construction inspector's municipality during the summer season, and now they've set up a construction inspector for a certain time on temporary and occasional jobs. If that's the seriousness, if that's what's going to make it better, well done. I have nothing further to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24877	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24878	Thank you. I didn't mean anything personal. We all work where we work, we do as best we know and can. I don't think there's any reason for us to get involved in any local self-government business one way or another. The number of votes received by the DSS in the Chatin municipality, where the government, which is over 50% of the votes, speaks of how much the people support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24879	Thank you. To Article 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shane. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I'd like to shed light on a specific case and try to find a solution in that direction together. We obviously know two things. One thing is the time to make demands. The other thing is the construction date. If the problem of the Constitutional Court is the date of construction, then it is not the problem of the Constitutional Court the date of application. The amendment that I have proposed to put all those who built the facilities in the same position by 11 September 2009 by giving them the deadline, after the adoption of this law, of 90 days for them to apply. So there's no crime. If those who built and applied by 2009, I can't see why they couldn't have built the same facilities by 2009, and they didn't apply for a very simple reason because you have people who were big building tycoons who built a lot and they must have filed for it, but you also have small poor families who built a house of 50, 60 or 100 square meters and were not in a situation due to financial restrictions to submit that request to legalize their housing. Now, if we adopt this amendment that has been proposed, we only give them the opportunity to submit that request within 90 days, to meet only one formal condition. This formal condition gives them the opportunity to really be in the same position as those citizens who have met this formal condition. If it really had nothing to do with the reasoning I received, I must also quote part of the Constitution that says that there is no discrimination against the specific measures that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve the full equality of a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. So these faces are in a fundamentally unequal position with other citizens. So it's not about us saying now – come on, whoever built the facility after 2009, after the date you're talking about. On the ground, it turns out that exactly the most socially endangered categories we're going to put into a situation that we need to give the local authorities the opportunity to tear down 10,000 or 20,000 of such objects, and we don't need to go back in history when it happened in the City of Belgrade, especially in settlements that we called informal settlements. On the other hand, then we get into a situation for the same number of people that we need to secure housing. So we leave these people at the mercy of the local authorities to decide what to do with them, whether to tear down their facilities or not. I spoke with the Anglunipe Network and several networks of NGOs. I've been talking about behind the Decade League Network and what serious problems it's going to cause in the field. On the ground, it is possible for local self-governments to create an even bigger problem for us, which is waiting for your ministry to deal with the housing issue right now when it comes to the social hazards of categories. We have, for example, settlements such as the settlement in Kragujevac, or the settlement in Belgrade, in Zemun, where people built their residential buildings before 2009, but they just failed to meet a formal requirement under this law, they did not hand it over. They didn't hand him over for reasons because at that time in the past government, the ministry received funds to help these people and they received funds in 12 municipalities without almost any requests being submitted. International organisations wanted to help just such activities and gave funds to some NGOs and others, and now you have spent funds, and these people have not given it up. Now the question is, whose problem is that? Is that our problem, all together here in the Assembly? I don't want to talk about objects after 2009. I'm talking about objects that were built just in these frames by 11 September 2009. If we take it constitutionally to legalise the facilities that were built by 11 September 2009, then I do not see that it has anything to do with the issue of constitutionality that only the application is submitted within the next 90 days of the date of adoption of this law. Especially given the part of the Constitution that speaks of human and minority rights and freedoms, which explicitly gives the government the opportunity to define affirmative measures. I'm going back once again, if the essential problem is the building date of the property, then this law in general is counter-constitutional. Then we can't talk about the legalization of any object that was built by that time. If we go with the fact that the date 11 as it was written here on September 11, 2009, something that is constitutional, which I accept and that I agree with you, then I don't see why it's unconstitutional that people who are in that constitutional period, so on. at least that's how it's treated about the law, why we don't give them the opportunity to make that formal request within 90 days and file that request so that the facility can be legalized. In that sense, I would suggest, listening to all these discussions that were both from PUPS colleagues and SPS colleagues, that we try to look at this problem from different sides. It's not my problem, the one who built 1,000 or 2,000 square meters of living space, so for those 1,000 or 2,000 squares of living space, we have sure money to pay for legalization and all that to solve. However, I am having a very serious problem with those people who have escaped from Kosovo, so somehow they have succeeded, or somehow the most socially endangered categories, somehow managed to build some small houses, which is exactly the category of residents who could not prepare the documentation or simply did not have those 100 euros to come into the situation to hand over these requirements. I ask you once again to consider this possibility, that precisely these people, these socially most endangered categories, that the possibility given to them by the Constitution. They are the category of population that is in a fundamentally unequal position compared to other citizens, which is clearly stated in the Constitution, in Article 21 that I have read. So we have a constitutional basis for that. I suppose you're right and I support the part where you have a constitutional basis that in September 11th 2009, something that gives opportunity, but then let's give them this one formal condition, that indeed within a 90-day period they can submit the request and thus show that we as the Serbian Assembly are responsible for exactly the most socially endangered categories and that we all engage and that we can see how they can submit that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24881	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić together submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. 'The word has a folk MP, Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24882	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will try once again to say what our wish was through the submission of this amendment. In addition to houses, buildings, auxiliary facilities, the last period has also been built infrastructure that connects these facilities to water, sewerage, gas, after and on the internet, etc. In addition to these facilities that we have provided legalization, construction facilities – houses, buildings, factories, other illegal buildings that were once funded by citizens themselves, which are connected to the infrastructure. Now you have a situation that you have a house that will be legalized with this law, you have a power line that's been built since when and which is legal and you have water to that house that will remain illegal. What's going on? These infrastructure facilities are currently managed by public utility companies. Therefore, the “water and sewerage” charge for the supply of water and sewerage, “Electro-price” charges electricity, the gas distributor charges gas, Internet signal distributor, or cable TV charges cable television, and these non-gas facilities are illegal. The total infrastructure in some streets is now illegal, but public enterprises have managed these facilities and are charging benefits. This amendment intended to apply for such facilities for legalisation, to be done by public undertakings or companies holding those facilities and to accept minimum technical conditions so that these facilities could be legalised. So they meet all the conditions that require different safeguards. I don't understand why you didn't accept that. You'll leave one part of the infrastructure illegal. I'm not talking about that infrastructure that was passed when the previous Law on Legalisation could not be implemented because it was a crime, but before, citizens often, in collaboration with these public enterprises, built these infrastructure facilities and are now illegal. A few legal questions are being asked. Whose property is over these facilities. On the other hand, what happens if one day there is a car accident and the facilities are going to last, if the public enterprise is to make public purchases of these infrastructure facilities, how will they be able to do so if the facility is primarily not legal and on the other hand not registered as their property? This amendment also opens the possibility to transfer ownership of these infrastructure facilities to these public undertakings. I think you should accept this amendment. If you haven't accepted, I suggest that in the Law on Planning and Construction, you sort that out. Now I'm going back to my previous thesis, and I'm against the fact that the law on planning and construction regulates the issue of legalization. From you I have heard one thesis, if true, you and through this new Law on Planning and Construction not only open the possibility of legalising objects that were built after the period of 2009, but you are opening up the possibility of legalized objects being built in some future period. I think I understand you very well. You said, "What if in some future period someone accidentally forgets, then an object is built illegally, why not allow it to legalize?" Please give the Minister an answer to that question. So, you're opening up an opportunity, a new legal inequality that one citizen after a speedy procedure, which you've promised since I've known you, Mr. Ilic, and before you were a minister and while you were an MP and now you're a minister, you're going to issue building permits on one counter, that the citizens won't wait. You've never waited more than since you became minister. Not just in your ministry. It's waiting in all the counters and in health care, and in all the other areas, there's never been a longer line. So is it true that through the new Law on Planning and Construction you introduce the possibility of illegal construction and give an answer to the question - why don't you cut off that circle of illegal construction and illegalize this infrastructure that's been built, if you're already creating an opportunity to legalize these objects that were illegal? On the other hand, I have to admit this area has never been regulated by the Law on Legalization before. So this is a new moment just to get out of that circle of legalization and illegal construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24883	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24884	Here I am trying not to talk too much to work faster, but it's not worth it. Some people's MPs amount to -- this one said this that year, he said that, he said that, etc. And we're going around in circles. I recognize some MPs who speak properly, what to do, and I remember well when they were mayors and committed a violation, when they were in some other parties that were God and beatings in Serbia, all the violations were committed. Now they've gone to some other opposition waters, so they've changed 100%. Now all the courtships to the citizens, etc. That's not correct. You ask me questions - what did you predict? I'm asking you, with Mr. Veselinović, you're a professor, what if you've got some crazy mayor again who's writing reports, logs, all living, to stop, that he can't break the law anymore, and he's just pushing, without paper, without permission? What I need now to bring down something worth 460 million euros. What am I supposed to do with him? There is no force to stop him. The man's working. He still works today, works every day. Do you believe, in this man, that 500 euros has been built into the cubic of concrete, and do you know how much the cubic of concrete in Serbia is really built up, up to 100 euros, between 50 and 100 euros. Now I'm telling you, when you take the unit prices, you'll see that it's five times that much. You can't hurt him. He's working. The inspection's writing up applications. The authorities don't react and it's all like that and it's going around in circles. I can't punish the citizens who took a loan of 460m euros and I say -- it crashes. What do I do? It's not the people's fault that everyone can come to power today. There's no control there who can and who can't. There are people you can't stop when they grab power with no brakes. I killed myself here from the story that the building permit at the start was free, that you were making a contract for the use of permits and that the real investment of the city was settled, etc. A lot of people don't realize it, and they keep explaining that it's going to be free. We won't do it for free. I repeat that the large income that has been introduced since recently, which is a tax on property, was extremely large. Do you believe that people in the first zone have objects that will eat themselves in ten years unless the property tax is paid? This should be invested in infrastructure and these are major items. Do you understand one thing, when you hear bickering about many objects – how it was built, where it was done, and it was all awkward. We're talking about the building. All of you, when you discuss it, say, "The fall of construction in Serbia." A dramatic fall in construction in Serbia. Is that right? I agree. Do you know that for construction works in Serbia at the Ministry of Construction, 170 million dinars were allocated to the budget? That's half of the Wire on the Old Mountain. Tell me how to run a construction and construction industry with half of the Wires made of which I don't know how many and which serve nothing now, but are in nettles? It was in some previous government. They say it's a key business branch. When the cranes were turned, the earth was on its way. We gave her 1,600,000 or 1,700,000 euros to run the whole machine. Help the construction industry and help the building. Some here have been discussing the city's communal equipment. If you are in a position, you voted that law, not me, when you voted the budget, you single out 190 million dinars for municipal equipment throughout Serbia, and then you ask me what to do? I don't know. Why did you vote? None of you got up to say it wasn't normal. It's a better equipped street. How many million euros did King Alexander Street cost? Like the whole of Serbia times the table. What's this about? A lot of things aren't good, and that's why we're here to change. I don't want to criticize now, tell stories. Do you know now that the Beška Bridge, for example? No papers? Did you know that once a contractor and that bridge 20 years ago did not protect the water that was planned for the project and that we now have a bridge recovery because of it, which costs to build a new bridge. Now we're wondering, did anyone answer for it? It's nobody. Do you think that protection was put on this new bridge that was put into traffic during the government's mandate? It's not. Now, do you think he's going to undermine the pillars of the stream or the ice when he starts hitting the poles and that he's going to get resuscitated soon, too, if that's not done? Why don't you ask yourself, what was four times rejected in previous governments is the solution of the Umka skating in the Sava? You know that's where Sava narrowed down from 450 feet to 120? Did you know that four meters a year slides the entire area into the river? Do you know that it can slip if it's big rain and it's blocking Sava and Sisko to build a lake and everybody says there's no money for it. And tomorrow, if it happens, you don't give God, what can happen, what will we do? So you know that Sava is on average six to eight meters deep, and there's 20 meters. She digs and the whole space sinks and those people who strike there and ask to get rid of it are right. I'll finish. I ask you to consider this law and all that is good, which we can accept, we will accept. Don't criticize us now – we've accepted a lot of amendments. We've accepted all of you, whoever gave you a good amendment, so that he can fix something. There aren't any parties we haven't accepted. The board president is here, all that was good, we've accepted. So, please let us continue this and do this, because this is good for everyone, to finish up and put an end to that wild building. You ask me – the Ministry has the means. Exactly, for the permits we issue, and we issue for factories and for everything else. I agree with you, ma'am. How could the previous government raise a 300m-euro loan without any paper, without a building permit, without property ownership? Whoever got the loan didn't own the property where he got the loan. How could it end that way and be in charge of the state and spend all 300 million and then come to me – give us the papers so the factory doesn't crash. It is true that there are all criminal charges that have been activated. I'm not a judge. There are records and there's everything. It is true that many people still come to the municipalities today, if you watch it on TV, and say – this is where the factory is built, and there is no factory to be made. It's true that lead processing was made on the waterway, and that man was now making progress, he's in charge of Vojvodina, he's discussing milk now, and the plumbing's taken care of. You can't do that. I'm sorry. Thank you for your cooperation today. Tomorrow, God willing, we will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-23-0.u24885	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're finishing work today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
