ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists when the minutes are adopted if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 111 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are not present, and therefore there is no quorum needed for the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda. In view of this, and in accordance with Article 88(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, interrupted work of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured, or up to 12.30 hours. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs present in the hall to press the appropriate key on the electronic unit and approach the vote. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nebojsa Stefanovic, Zoran Kasalovic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Slobodan Jeremic and Konstantin Arsenovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it is exclusively for Monday, therefore, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda acts set out in the request of 141 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. You were presented with the minutes of the Eighth, Nineth and Tenth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 and the minutes of the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Since today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted them in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote The minutes of the eighth session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, held on 22, 23, 26, 29 and 30 November 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13 and 15 December 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate tasters on the MP's unit. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the 8th session of the 2012 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 22, 23, 26, 29 and 30 November 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13 and 15 December 2012. I put to the vote The minutes of the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held in 2012, held on 15, 17, 18, 20, 21 and 24 December 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 on 15, 17, 18, 20, 21 and 24 December 2012. I put to the vote The minutes of the 10th session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held in 2012, on 24, 26, 27, 28 and 29 December 2012. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority votes the minutes of the Second Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 held 24, 26, 27, 28 and 29 December 2012. I put to the vote the minutes of the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 12 and 13 January 2013. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013 on 12 and 13 January 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which was convened at the request of 141 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, the next Dn e n ie d 1 was appointed. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Registration, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, submitted by the President of the National Assembly; 3. Proposal for a Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to interparliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly; 4. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group; 5. Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party parliamentary group; 6. The proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. National MP Stefana Miladanovic, based on Article 92(2), Article 157, Article 23 and Article 23. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that - a joint single search be carried out on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, submitted by the President of the National Assembly; a proposal for a decision to appoint the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to interparliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly; a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Serbian Progressive Party; a proposal for a Decision amending the amendment and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party; a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the MP Stefana Miladanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 113 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Before we move to work on the agenda of the session, pursuant to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the light of the principled review of the draft Law amending the Law on Public Registration, I have also called on Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Ljiljana Blagojevic, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration, Mr. Milisav Coguric, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration Jovan Ćosic, head of the Department for Normal Affairs and International Co-operation at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We are moving to work on a set agenda, i.e. on a principled review of the draft Law amending the Law on Public Records. You've received a bill from the government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. You've been given the time of the debate. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. The word is by MP Borko Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12620	Madam Chairman, you have violated a series of articles 106, 107, 85, 86 and 87, because this seems to me, but I don't know which time in the series that the Assembly scheduled at 11.00 hours starts with even two hours late because the ruling coalition couldn't provide quorum and couldn't secure it because they or have some serious split in the ruling coalition, which we rightly suspect, or are not seriously accessing the subject called "emergency." This law is an emergency law. They spend taxpayers' money on late hours. The taxpayers' money is spent calling for changes in one law and membership on boards. It is extremely unserious and the citizens of Serbia absolutely cannot understand this behaviour. Since everything is fine with you and everything is idyllic, I hope that someone here will be able to explain why the MPs don't know which time in two hours are waiting for you to fit the quorum in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12621	I do not think I have violated all the members you have listed, Mr Stefanovic, because it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and because of the holding of the Committee of the National Assembly of Sessions, the session starts with a delay of one hour, because the one hour is scheduled for the Rules of Procedure. There is an obligation in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure that all MPs, when entering the hall, put their cards into identification units, which was not the case with the opposition this time and therefore there was no quorum to work with. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft Law amending the Law on Public Records. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12622	Dear Madam Chairman, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on amendments to the Law on Public Records. The proposal for a law containing seven members, the essence of which is the laying down of the suspension of the application of the law. This is the second time in a little over half a year that we have a law that provides for a delay in the application of the Law on Public Records. It is natural to ask the question – why is the application of this law delayed? The answer is simple, but very complex because of its essence, which is because we still don't have enough lawyers who passed a public notary exam and who could apply for notaries. The law explicitly provides that the establishment of a notary chamber requires the appointment of at least 100 public notebooks who passed their public notary exam. The second question is raised – why do we not have enough lawyers to pass this exam? In its essence, it comes down to two key reasons. The first reason I'm stating as a reason why we don't have enough lawyers to pass this exam yet, but certainly as a reason why it's controversial, is the fact that this exam is very strict and very demanding. That's the kind of exam you need to stay with. This must remain so, because the notaries are much expected, they are entrusted with significant powers, and the state of Serbia must have guarantees that these notaries will be able to carry out properly and well-trusted powers and meet the expectations expected of them. The second reason lies in the fact that the notary as set out in the applicable public records law is economically absolutely unsustainable. People are not interested in preparing such a difficult exam, opening public records offices, and having such narrow and small responsibilities that will not allow them to cover basic overhead costs. Therefore, it is accessible to a comprehensive legislative reform aimed at increasing the competence of public notebooks and creating a judicial profession that will be sustainable in practice. Experiences from the comparative rights of other countries have shown that they are the holders of publicly registered functions in those countries where this function and this service exist as one of the most capable and most qualified lawyers. If we look at the experiences of one of the collegiate public records, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, such as the French Republic, we get the result that really are the most capable lawyers, not lawyers, not judges, not prosecutors, but public notebooks. That level of knowledge-checking that has to go through is the most complex in the most complicated. Just teasing this second reason, and this is the reason for the economic unsustainability of such a concise public record in Serbia under the existing law, these amendments to the law aim to extend the competence of the public notary. In addition to the delay in Article 6 of the application of the law from 1 March 2013 to 1 March 2014, one of the key provisions of this law is to extend the competence of the public notary. In fact, a valid legal solution gives public notaries small responsibilities in the area of real estate transport. The notaries are scheduled to draw up public records on the availability of the immovableities of persons who are commercially incapacitated. For example, if a underage child inherits a house and his mother, as a legal representative, wants to sell it, such a contract would have to be drawn up with a public notary. When it comes to the availability of the property of commercially qualified persons, a valid legal solution provides that within a period of two years from the date of application of the party's law, they may choose whether such contracts will be certified before the court or made up of them in a public register. This solution has several shortcomings, and I will only list those that are key. First, this solution is legally dogmatically inconsistencies, because it places a sign of equality between two different levels of formalism in civil law. What does that mean exactly? This solution gives the same legal significance to the signing of the contract, on the one hand, and the contract made up in the form of a notary record, on the other hand. In the case of a signing order, the power of the public document has only the clause of the authority. The court notifier shall confirm only the authenticity of the signatories and shall not, as a rule, be subject to the examination of the fullness of the contractual provisions. On the other hand, with the notary record, the evidence force of the public documents has the full text of the contract, and the notary is obliged to carefully consider all the provisions of the contract and to alert the parties to any irregularities and misunderstandings which could give rise to the cause of the dispute. This solution to the concept of notaries in Serbia has been criticised. It is criticised because the notary in Serbia makes it economically unsustainable. If the notaries don't increase their powers, the public record offices will hardly be able to survive. In December 2012, the deputy president of the German Notary Chamber, Dr. Rynard Boc, presented at the bathing school of natural law, spoke of Serbian notaries and increased their powers and proposed to just increase their powers in this area, which is the transport of immovable property. I'll quote one of his views that says -- if the German notaries had such powers as are intended for the notaries in Serbia, 80% of the German notary offices would be closed. The problem of insufficient competencies of future notaries in Serbia has also been highlighted by colleagues from environments that have been implemented, i.e. with the introduction of a public notary call started earlier than Serbia and implemented before Serbia began. The proposed amendments shall exclude the competence of notaries for the conclusion of contracts to alienate and burden the immovableity. The positive sides of this solution are multiple. First of all, a much higher level of preventive legal protection will be established in the area of immovable transport. The public notary will be obliged to closely control any contractual provision, to indicate to the parties any irregularities which could result in the invalidity of the contract or disputes on the interpretation of the contract, to refuse to make up a contract that is absolutely zero, fictitious or simulated. In this way many positive effects will be achieved, taxes on the transfer of absolute rights and taxes on capital gains are prevented, and in particular fraud with multiple sales of houses and apartments, which are very common in our practice, will be eradicated. As I said, this aspect of Serbia's economic unsustainability of public notation with existing competencies is one of the reasons. The provisions of the Law amending the Law on Public Records also raise the question of the passing of this examination, in terms of the definition of the surveyor himself. So, who's the one who's questioning? According to the current solution, a legislative solution, the committee that is investigating consists of six members and one candidate is being checked by three members of the commission. In what is before you, the Commission's amendment limits itself to five members, but it leaves the possibility to appoint more committees, which we think is a good solution, given that so far has been the most common case for subjective, purely subjective reasons for the inability of a member of the commission to fulfil that obligation, that there is a duty, that they simply do not carry out the examinations within the scheduled time limit. The results of tests so far conducted, we can freely say that at least they are not satisfactory. At present, there are only 55 candidates who have passed a public record exam, three exams. During the May test period, which took place on 27 May 2012, 259 candidates passed the exam and 30 candidates passed it. During the September test period, held on 29 September 2012, the exam was conducted by 119 candidates and passed only 19 candidates. In the last run-off, November 18th, 2012, 25 candidates passed the exam and a total of six. A total of 57 candidates reported from the September and November test deadline of 13 candidates. It should state here that those who, due to not maintaining the January test deadline, have obtained a condition to now apply to the deadline to be held will be allowed to apply and access the exams. Since September, the justice ministry and the state administration have started a series of activities necessary to access this new project in a good way -- the introduction of public records into Serbia. A task force has been formed to prepare a legal framework for the really full application of this law, and this is about changes and additions of a whole series of around 20 laws accompanying the function, i.e. the service of a public notebook. We also faced undefined controversys that were present during the first test period and we tried, gave our maximum and succeeded in doing so, that these controversys in the time-limits followed and in those that followed were removed. Today, on the website of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration on the day of the exams, one hour after the completion of the written exam, the exact tests they had to run are published. I wouldn't want to leave out something that I think is very important, which is that this strictness of carrying out a public record exam has its own and what a legitimate reason. If we look at parallel experiences from countries in the environment, we'll get data that the public record function was a function that was followed by very violent events in the first years of her life, that a large percentage, a significant percentage of the holders of these functions only after a year or two days ended up in prison because he abused his powers. By introducing a public notary function, but in such a way that it will truly represent one useful, good and necessary link in the chain of legal certainty, creating legal certainty in Serbia, contribute first to the legal security of citizens, but also to all other legal entities, especially those who want to invest their capital in Serbia and thus contribute to the creation of economic security in our country. These are key amendments to this law and I think it is also a question of some kind of maturity of our country across all branches of government, especially legislative and executive ones, to allow something that will contribute to greater legal certainty between citizens and other legal entities, or legal entities, to actually come into force and to be implemented. At this point, we can't say that about the Public Records Act, because we have an objective circumstance that the conditions for starting to apply this law are unfulfilled. Since, as one fellow MP said at the committee session, this pioneer project is because our last notaries who knew the job and did it before World War II have long been not among the living, given that there is no direct and experienced application of a system like this in Serbia, this pioneering project carries a lot of disadvantages, a lot of obstacles that we have to overcome, and this is just one of these obstacles in a series. I call on you to support your votes the draft Law amending the Law on Public Registration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12623	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12624	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPO and DHSS all of what Mr. Minister has spoken about and the amendments to the law fully understand, as well as the situation in our entire judiciary, which has to be and being, but especially in these private years of work, a strict controller of the work of court notaries, precisely because of the experience in the environment. Only the introduction of the notary system is a new significant return to Serbian tradition. The notary system existed with us before World War II, and most of all it lived in the most developed parts of the country. In Vojvodina and in some parts of the country he did not live, but I would not look back at the situation in our judiciary and the criticism of his general condition only for the past few years. After 83 years and in this part, Serbia is returning to itself, and the developed world has developed a notary service to the public in developed countries, particularly in EU countries, to the extent that they have the status of judges. When selecting notaries and passing a notary expert exam, as well as later further training, I think that all those who decide to choose notaries must have equal caution and perhaps even more than a precaution when selecting the highest judicial functions. When I say that we shouldn't look at the last few years, I was thinking about the period from 1945 to here, when our good tradition in various areas was violently interrupted, even in this area. Indeed, we now have great problems in our judicial system, which are the result of everything that happened in the 1990s and after 2000, and I would say that, above all, they are the result of a system that was established in 1945 and with which we will deal with the relics for a very long time in our judicial system. Serbia is the last to implement necessary and necessary reforms in many areas of its life. Unfortunately, this is also the case in the area of the notary system. We're the last country in the former SFRY to pass the Notary Act. The postponement of its application has its full purpose, because definitely notaries, who really must be the best lawyers, must even have more multidisciplinary knowledge, often from legal holders, who can also be specialists in certain courts, civil and criminal or other matter, but a wide range of cases with which the notary is required and, first, the strictness of the examinations, then regular control by the ministry and by the judiciary and, third, continuous further training. The Notary Chamber in the Environment and in the EU countries is doing all these jobs, from professional training, from the potential of notary or public ethics, from international co-operation, from continuous training at the Notary Academy, and let's not forget, on the day we become an EU member, that international legal co-operation in all these jobs will come of great importance. The public notary chamber, which we will establish only when we have at least 100 notary offices open, will monitor with the equalisation of public records practice, deliver a regular report to the ministries, then, of course, in addition to the insurance of notaries, education will be carried out, the keeping of the registers, then publishing activity as regards professional literature, co-operation with courts and other international organisations, then the teaching will organise for the passing of notary exams and will have a significant participation in working groups in all regulations concerning notary, notary, or public record professions. The examination procedure and the appointment procedure are crucial to the future of public records. Through a positive selection based on the knowledge of ethics, the development of the service is ensured and its reputation is maintained. It's a matter of public trust where this particular profession is based, because if we did a public opinion survey, we'd see that our citizens mostly have no idea what a public notary is, what a notary. Fear of the unknown and great ignorance, and citizens will certainly continue to have confidence in the state authorities, in the court, and so on, more often ask that their documents and statements be certified in court in this transitional period than in the notaries. However, it is this kind of positive selection, to choose the best, to choose people who are famous in their midst, if they were respected lawyers, judges etc. which have no stains in their biography, it will be the first step in developing the Notary Service, because it can primarily be based on citizens' trust. In addition to being relieved of the judiciary, which will shorten the duration of many proceedings, such as a desert debate, which will be a vast network of notaries at the country's level, this preventive legal protection of the Notary Service is important. What Mr. Minister also touched, that so far the courts have mostly been engaged in significant contracts, such as a very high-value real estate contract, they have mainly paid attention to the signature of the parties, the accuracy of the personal documents, and that is where the role of the court's verifyer is ended. However, this has resulted in exactly what happened and we see every day in our environment, that one and the same immovableity has been repeatedly sold, that it has opened a wide spectrum of diversity, of simultaneous affairs, of various deceitful actions and of this preventive role of notaries, that it examines each member of the contract, that preventively protecting both parties signatories of the contract may be the most important role, because, therefore, if the notary does its job properly, we will avoid many judicial proceedings, from criminal proceedings to various other proceedings, which concern compensation, which can result from these deceitful actions. What is also very important is that we will have an advanced electronic signature instead of an official seal and signature at that stage of the development of the Notary Service, when everything in the electronic system is in a quality way networked. Then, we'll have a will register, because we don't have a will register today, so it's possible that one leaver writes a few wills that can produce a series of court proceedings and a series of legal consequences. What is very important to us and what we want to point to the ministry, and I also see that Mr. Minister resonates in the same way with his service. It is true that now that the notary offices would open up with these competences, they would be very difficult in economic terms to operate, but, for several hundred years, the English, who have introduced a notary service per system step by step, have done just that because of a few things – because of the professional training of notaries, because of the development of citizens' awareness, because of the gradual acquisition of confidence in the notary services and because they had previously clearly arranged their legal system. We, if we are not able to properly regulate our legal system and if we do not pass all the necessary laws necessary for the development of the Notary Service, or if, for example, we do not properly arrange the service of the Immobility Register, then we cannot expect notaries to do their job in a good way. Ms. Olgica Batic, deputy head of our parliamentary group, who, by the case and daughter of former Justice Minister Vladjan Batic, in a direct conversation before this exhibition, found out that Mr. Batic was in favour of introducing a notary service, but felt that our legal system was not sufficiently capable of both weighting and quality, and that the introduction of the Notary Service should be delayed for that time until we got the necessary harmony in the legal system that would play a very important role in controlling the work of the Notary Service. Secondly, and Mr. Minister mentioned, and we collected these data, in all the countries of the former members of the SFRY most of the notaries unfortunately ended up in prison because of corruption, precisely because we have this inherited system – come on, we'll do some work in a criminal way, no one will find out, etc., and how easy it is to find out. What we think is very controversial and what the ministry should think about when amending the Notary Act, it's an archive run by notaries. We know that all our public services and public institutions have a big problem with archive construction, keeping documents. They are often kept in inadequate conditions, which do not comply with all the standards of saving the archive building, and we simply do not have a good type of security here. For example, someone will pass a notary exam, open an office and commit it to safeguard an archival structure of great importance for the legal security of citizens. After ten years he can close the office, something else can happen to him, he can lose his license to work. Then what about the archives? I think the best solution, however, is that the state is the one that will organise the preservation of the archive building or at least a copy of all documents that exist at the notaries. For let us not forget that we live in the environment we live in, live with the habits that exist in our society, and we must also act in a preventive manner. Let's say, he's currently in our legal system, since he was voted in 2001 by the Notary Act, there's another misunderstanding. Many courts such as the First Basic Court in Belgrade refuse to verify a copy of the contract that is true to the original, as they tell the parties it is not possible, because the original is not the seal of the court, etc. I think the Ministry must react in that part, and since foreign citizens meet daily with these problems that must simply be ordered by judicial services that carry out the opt-out to continue to meet the citizens, that citizens do not suffer the adverse consequences of what the state has not done. Of course, we should look to developed countries, but we should also look to the long and complex procedure that has developed countries, which have developed notary services, slowly degree by degree, passed on competences to public notebooks and notaries. If at one point we would now, at one point, transfer to them all the powers that will be exercised in the future, only then do we think that real problems would arise. Therefore, our formula for solving the problem, in addition to these legal solutions, means that notaries should be given the authority they have to start, only workers are certified in court, then at least two years should be watched as public notebooks do the job. In those two years, it is necessary to remove the notes that work badly and correct the shortcomings in their work, only after the commission that needs to be formed concludes that these simplest things are doing well, only then should the law establish and transfer these public competences to the notaries. Then, when their work is monitored during this transitional period of two years, at least two more years should be controlled and corrected by deficiencies in new responsibilities. Only, according to us, should the authority be delegated to draw up public notebooks and all of this provided that everyone is satisfied in the way of majority, as the notaries did their job. We think that these are essential things, and despite these legal provisions, we have every time we talk about this, a picture of the situation in our society, and we can know exactly what situation we can expect from which. That is why MPs of the SPO and the Democratic Party of Serbia will support the postponement, the application of this law. We will, when it comes to the agenda, set up a set of accompanying laws, and you mentioned that there are about 20 of them to be compared to the Law on Judicial Notaries, take a very active part. According to us, it seems to us, and there may be another situation to delay the application of the law for maybe another year or two days. In that sense, Miss Olgica Batic submitted the amendment, because given the general condition, you brought it out the way we planned to do it. We think that in a year we'll hardly be able to finish these jobs, but we'll see what happens to the following laws. In any case, we in this section will be very constructive with our best intentions and with attempts to really contribute to the establishment of legal certainty as much as we can, as far as our parliamentary group is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12625	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12626	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the public notebooks are and are not newspapers in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, public notebooks and notaries were first introduced to us by the Law on Public Notes of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1930, accepting solutions of Austrian and German law. However, while in Vojvodina territory they had a long tradition, in central Serbia for a short time the law mentioned until 1964, they failed to leave a long trail. The existing law on public notebooks adopted by the National Assembly in 2011, re-introduced the public notary institution as part of the judicial reform strategy, with the aim of taking over a significant part of the cases of outsiders. The approach that has been applied in the past has been retained, and most of the solutions contained in German and Austrian law have been accepted. Therefore, a public notary, independent and independent legal expert, who performs public service, i.e. on behalf of the State, it shall draw up public documents and, under the authority of the court, carry out proceedings which fall within the jurisdiction of the court. For his work he personally and under the law is obliged to ensure professional responsibility. The State is not responsible for the errors and possible damage caused by the parties in its work, given that the law entrusts the public service, these are the conditions and procedure for selecting public notebooks established by law and carried out by the state, i.e. Minister of Justice. The existing law provides for a limited number of public notes, as a rule one place for each municipality or city municipality. In areas where population is denser and more concentration of economic and other activities, the minister of justice can determine one public notary place in every 25,000 inhabitants. The public register is neutral in relation to the parties. His law explicitly prohibits him from being like that. They make lawyers put aside one of the parties and represent her interests. His work is similar to that of a judge in a court of law and has a legal duty to, if the proceedings establish any irregularities, mean, prohibited availability, fictitious contracts or other legal transactions, he is required to warn the parties or refuse to carry out a public record job. So the public notebook protects the interests of the contract. The public register has the right to award for its work and to compensate for the necessary costs. The prize for work is determined according to a public note tariff issued by the minister of justice on a proposal from the public record chamber. The public register shall have the right and the legal authority to charge judicial and administrative fees on behalf of and on behalf of the State when such fees are provided for in the procedures entrusted to it by the courts or by the authorities of the administration. The illustration works, in France it's about 10% income. The competence of public notebooks may be mandatory or optional. Mandatory jurisdiction exists in those legal matters where it is necessary to ensure the protection of the interests of the parties or of greater legal certainty, as a rule, in cases where assets of a higher value are held: life-support contracts, grant agreements and distribution of assets for the life of the leaver, sales contracts or a real estate gift, etc. Or, when setting up a number of open-type companies, such as companies, stock companies. I think the best solution, however, is that the state is the one that will organise the preservation of the archive building or at least a copy of all documents that exist at the notaries. For let us not forget that we live in the environment we live in, live with the habits that exist in our society, and we must also act in a preventive manner. Let's say, he's currently in our legal system, since he was voted in 2001 by the Notary Act, there's another misunderstanding. Many courts such as the First Basic Court in Belgrade refuse to verify a copy of the contract that is true to the original, as they tell the parties it is not possible, because the original is not the seal of the court, etc. I think the Ministry must react in that part, and since foreign citizens meet daily with these problems that must simply be ordered by judicial services that carry out the opt-out to continue to meet the citizens, that citizens do not suffer the adverse consequences of what the state has not done. Of course, we should look to developed countries, but we should also look to the long and complex procedure that has developed countries, which have developed notary services, slowly degree by degree, passed on competences to public notebooks and notaries. If at one point we would now, at one point, transfer to them all the powers that will be exercised in the future, only then do we think that real problems would arise. Therefore, our formula for solving the problem, in addition to these legal solutions, means that notaries should be given the authority they have to start, only workers are certified in court, then at least two years should be watched as public notebooks do the job. In those two years, it is necessary to remove the notes that work badly and correct the shortcomings in their work, only after the commission that needs to be formed concludes that these simplest things are doing well, only then should the law establish and transfer these public competences to the notaries. Then, when their work is monitored during this transitional period of two years, at least two more years should be controlled and corrected by deficiencies in new responsibilities. Only, according to us, should the authority be delegated to draw up public notebooks and all of this provided that everyone is satisfied in the way of majority, as the notaries did their job. We think that these are essential things, and despite these legal provisions, we have every time we talk about this, a picture of the situation in our society, and we can know exactly what situation we can expect from which. That is why MPs of the SPO and the Democratic Party of Serbia will support the postponement, the application of this law. We will, when it comes to the agenda, set up a set of accompanying laws, and you mentioned that there are about 20 of them to be compared to the Law on Judicial Notaries, take a very active part. According to us, it seems to us, and there may be another situation to delay the application of the law for maybe another year or two days. In that sense, Miss Olgica Batic submitted the amendment, because given the general condition, you brought it out the way we planned to do it. We think that in a year we'll hardly be able to finish these jobs, but we'll see what happens to the following laws. In any case, we in this section will be very constructive with our best intentions and with attempts to really contribute to the establishment of legal certainty as much as we can, as far as our parliamentary group is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12627	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12628	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the public notebooks are and are not newspapers in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, public notebooks and notaries were first introduced to us by the Law on Public Notes of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1930, accepting solutions of Austrian and German law. However, while in Vojvodina territory they had a long tradition, in central Serbia for a short time the law mentioned until 1964, they failed to leave a long trail. The existing law on public notebooks adopted by the National Assembly in 2011, re-introduced the public notary institution as part of the judicial reform strategy, with the aim of taking over a significant part of the cases of outsiders. The approach that has been applied in the past has been retained, and most of the solutions contained in German and Austrian law have been accepted. Therefore, a public notary, independent and independent legal expert, who performs public service, i.e. on behalf of the State, it shall draw up public documents and, under the authority of the court, carry out proceedings which fall within the jurisdiction of the court. For his work he personally and under the law is obliged to ensure professional responsibility. The State is not responsible for the errors and possible damage caused by the parties in its work, given that the law entrusts the public service, these are the conditions and procedure for selecting public notebooks established by law and carried out by the state, i.e. Minister of Justice. The existing law provides for a limited number of public notes, as a rule one place for each municipality or city municipality. In areas where population is denser and more concentration of economic and other activities, the minister of justice can determine one public notary place in every 25,000 inhabitants. The public register is neutral in relation to the parties. His law explicitly prohibits him from being like that. They make lawyers put aside one of the parties and represent her interests. His work is similar to that of a judge in a court of law and has a legal duty to, if the proceedings establish any irregularities, mean, prohibited availability, fictitious contracts or other legal transactions, he is required to warn the parties or refuse to carry out a public record job. So the public notebook protects the interests of the contract. The public register has the right to award for its work and to compensate for the necessary costs. The prize for work is determined according to a public note tariff issued by the minister of justice on a proposal from the public record chamber. The public register shall have the right and the legal authority to charge judicial and administrative fees on behalf of and on behalf of the State when such fees are provided for in the procedures entrusted to it by the courts or by the authorities of the administration. The illustration works, in France it's about 10% income. The competence of public notebooks may be mandatory or optional. Mandatory jurisdiction exists in those legal matters where it is necessary to ensure the protection of the interests of the parties or of greater legal certainty, as a rule, in cases where assets of a higher value are held: life-support contracts, grant agreements and distribution of assets for the life of the leaver, sales contracts or a real estate gift, etc. Or, when setting up a number of open-type companies, such as companies, stock companies. The Faculty's jurisdiction exists in other legal matters where the condition of the fullness of the legal work is not to be drawn up as a public record and where the parties are authorised to determine whether they want the legal work that they conclude to be concluded in front of a public notary, as a guarantee of the correctness of the same. The essence of the introduction of a public notary institution is a major discharging of courts with a temporary improvement in the quality and speed of legal services provided by the state to citizens. The PUPS parliamentary group will support the proposal to amend the Public Registration Act. The amendments we've made, we're in favour of the fact that a public notary doesn't have to have a judicial exam. It seems more personal to me personally, and I like the system with a strict public record exam without a judicial trial, because the judicial exam covers a much wider matter and that knowledge and branch of the rights which the notary, de facto, does not need, or will sometimes not be needed. As far as working experience is concerned, I think it's maximum the internship required for a judge of the higher court. I also advocate strict compliance with the criteria of dignity, and there should be no deviations here, because the public-book is independent and independent in work. The above criteria must be fully respected. This, in particular, given that the minister of justice in the media has already announced that changes to the new law on the judicial exam have been planned so far. In one word, as our people would say, a public journal must by all criteria be absolutely moral and pure, like a tear. Thank you, I've had so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12629	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12630	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to point out one thing first. Mr. Minister, you represent the Ministry of Justice here, you represent the Government, but you also represent the political elite that is in power, and therefore whatever criticism we are telling you, it actually refers to the account of that authority that you represent here, and only in this context can we talk today, even about this law, which you have the ambition to change some of the provisions of the Law on Public Records. So, let's start from the beginning. The bill itself speaks not only of what is proposed as an amendment and a supplement, but also of everything you do not change in the existing Public Note Act. When we look at what's the most dominant problem here that you've obviously seen, it's that the law can't be applied since 1 March of this year. The second time you are already proposing to amend the Law on Public Registration in that it will extend the time limit for the application of the law. Since August of the last time you asked for this prolonging, you've had six months to do something, to pass the necessary sublaws, to amend 20 laws, so today you've said to the Justice Committee, which needs to be changed, so this law can be applied. In the meantime, to establish that chamber of public notebooks after the election of 100 public notebooks. So in six months, you didn't do anything, because if you did, you'd show the results. The result is that on the agenda of the Assembly today is this bill that requires a postponement for a year to start applying the Notary Law. What does that say about you? Are you responsible, were you serious when you thought in August of last year that in six months you would be able to do one big job, did you forgive yourself for being irresponsible and irresponsible, by saying, in the light of this law, that the main reason that the law was proposed is that there are not enough lawyers who could be public notaries. So, March 12th is the date when the law arrived in the Assembly procedure. It's less than a month since March 1st, since the law should enter into force. It's just talking about how much you've been insecure about, when you haven't taken care of that if you can't do some things, you don't want to, you don't have a political interest, you've come to work a long time ago, so you've asked to postpone this notary law. When we talk about the members of this bill, we could say that no member is legally adequate in the sense that it improves the existing law on public records. We have submitted five amendments to seven members of this law and we think it is best that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. We know that you will not do this, and we are aware that you will probably adopt this law, you have a congregation majority, you will vote it. One of the arguments why you're going to do it, you've already hinted, would be a big mess and a shame to start applying a law that's inadmissible. I don't think it's a disgrace to the opposition, that it's a disgrace to the authorities who haven't been able to imitate things that way, that one important law can be applied. Why is this law on public records so important? Because until you start applying it, you won't know how many judges you need in courts, you won't know the size of a network of courts in Serbia, and then you can just talk about wanting to reform a reformed judiciary, putting it all in some ironic context. It only speaks of how you think anything to change in this country, it only says that there are no serious changes, because if there were, you would also take care of this law that is so important for reviving and improving the quality of justice in Serbia. Let's start with the members who are important for today's debate, two or three members are the most important ones here, and one by which you extend the period of entry into force of the law, while the other two members refer to the muralisation, i.e. to the translation of one non-public document into public law, in the sense that you give the soleization of contracts that are intended for the availability of immovable property. That means you're shutting down any participant in the creation of a contract, in the creation of a contract. Contracts on the availability of immovable property pass to the exclusive monopoly of public notation. What does that mean for Serbian citizens? This means that the public notebook, and on the 25,000 inhabitants, you will have one public notebook. In one city of 100,000 inhabitants, four public notebooks that will have the exclusive responsibility to make up and verify all contracts concerning the availability of immovable property. So there's no more that citizens make up their own contracts, no more that lawyers do that job, all that goes to the public register's jurisdiction. You explained it with two arguments, Mr. Minister. One is that it is necessary to introduce one legal certainty and that it is necessary to strengthen the economic public register. Economically, it can be strengthened by strengthening legal certainty by the state, while having jurisdiction in terms of the availability of immovable property, all in terms of the creation of these legal transactions, will be transferred to public notebooks. So I would ask you a question – so how do you think that notaries protect public interest from public trust, that they have public importance, if you are not in a different way, but by extending jurisdiction to some legal affairs, which simply will not be able to do any more, without a public record monopoly? You justify that legal certainty by making Europe the strongest, most professional lawyer, the most professional, you say that from both the judge and the lawyer, and from the prosecutor. I think it's one insult and a lawyer, and a judge, and a prosecutor. Why would a public notebook be the strongest, best, most professional, most respected lawyer in one country? Is that your subjective feeling, that this is the situation in the countries of Europe, or have you simply heard some argument that would support it? I'd really like to hear that, but I haven't heard anything about it yet. When we talk about the fact that we don't have a hundred lawyers who are similar to being public notebooks, the question is necessarily asked – so how is it that, when the public record exam itself can only come out with graduates with a legal exam, with a certain number of years of work experience, so, apparently, they can go to exams of lawyers, judges and other lawyers, with a legal exam and a certain internship? If this is true, from May 2012, to the end of this year, of the 404 candidates reported, only 55 passed. So I ask you a question - are you aware that candidates who have passed already have enormous knowledge and experience in the judiciary, while falling on a public record exam almost 90%? Did you analyze why that is? The Rules of Procedure of the Public Note Test correctly state the laws which will be the subject of this examination, and these are the laws with which each lawyer meets on a daily basis, such as the Law on Liabilities, Fundamental Property and Legal Relations, the Law on Publishing Law on Movements and Real Estates, the Law on the Mortgage, the Law on State Prime Minister and the Cataster, etc., these same lawyers are not able to pass that examination. You argued it in such a way that the candidates did not take the exam seriously enough. So, candidates are inconclusive, candidates are irresponsible, unlike the examination committee which is responsible and how responsible, but it is a strict exam, and a serious exam. You see, there's a little bit of a problem that we'd like to discuss, and that's to say something about how the first public paper exam took place, where the most candidates actually appeared, about 260, with the second and third being far less candidates, 119 and 26? So it was realized that the problem was great with the exams. So, on the first exam, the commission members were also professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, such as Dr Oliver Antic and such as Dr Dragor Hiber. So, this is Oliver Antić, who is today the legal adviser of the President of the Republic, who was the bearer and actor of the "index" affair, who has not forgotten, although most of them have been released or have been suspended, against those who have been prosecuted. So, these are the members of the commission, including the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which is the one Dr Dragisa Slepcevic, who, in the period 2009 to 2012, has three times changed his position on the key moments of judicial reform, which has also produced this judiciary and this situation in the judiciary in which we are currently in place. So these are the members of the commission, of which two members participated in writing public records. These are the two professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Then, we have a problem with this law, because Article 26 is not in line with Article 153, so we have a problem with the members of 82 and 83 who simply ignore the fact that there is no form of conclusion of a real estate contract, nor can a paternity be recognised in that form provided for by this law on public records. So we have a problem with the members of 86th let's say, which provides for the founding assembly of the company, as one of the institutes in that article 86, although the founding assembly of the company is no longer in the company law, and otherwise it represents the matter of this notary exam, which is listed, which and how should be known in the exam, and the creators of the law itself have missed the fact that there is no more in the law, because there are only contracts and a simple statement of will, that a company should be established. There is also article 86, in relation to Article 93, which raises to the level of public documents, a simple order of signature of the chairperson at the session, which was actually held and decided by the managing authority of the legal person. So it's enough to get up to the level of public documents, free over the signatures, and you're introducing legal certainty, by relocating from the jurisdiction of lawyers and all citizens the conclusion of purchase contracts to the level of public notebook and public records. Then there are, for example, the other members, such as this 153 that somehow contradicts Article 26 as regards the period when unworthyness ceases, to be important for competition at the place of the public register, while in Article 26, three years, Article 153 is about five years. So there's not even one harmonisation in the law itself, as far as members are concerned. So this law is a picture and an opportunity of this authority that simply can't, won't, won't deal with problems. The simplest thing is for her to put things off, to push under the rug, to blame the other, the candidates who failed the notary exam, to blame the previous government for not bringing in the necessary sublegal acts, and in the last six months alone, she hasn't been able to do anything. Therefore, it would be good for you to make sure when you propose laws that others read the laws and that others can also correctly interpret your intentions that you might have wanted at some point and hide. Transferring to the authority of public records, the availability of property, although you claim that it is a matter of legal certainty it will not be. It is certainly true that you are transferring the monopoly to a public notary, that you are in fact denying the freedom to negotiate for the citizens of Serbia, that you are in fact opening the door wide to corruption, because the monopoly sooner or later leads to corruption. Therefore, it is not a fight against corruption that you are making it right, but among other things, and that you write good laws, explain them well and really give the right reasons why you have proposed and passed these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12631	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12632	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Although I always strive to make as good and constructive an argument as possible, I always have to get involved when certain lies are made. I'm sure it wasn't said on purpose and that it was no longer a product of knowledge or carelessness. Where do you think you're going? From the beginning. The Ministry and I, as the head of the Department of Justice and the State Administration, have been accused of doing nothing, of being irresponsible, of being irresponsible, of saying all this about ourselves, so we were first honored that we had not passed the sublegal act necessary for the application of this law. You'll get a little better information and you'll see that all those sublegal acts that were in the department's jurisdiction have been brought in. The next time you go out with something like that, and we've already talked to the board about it, I'm asking if you're not sure then check with the Ministry. Any fellow Members of Parliament spoke from any party to come, whether it was from the opposition or from the authorities, received the information they requested and could see that the sublegal acts for whose adoption, or for whose proposal and adoption the competent ministry had been brought. Second, you said we didn't even form a chamber? Please, sit down and read the law and you'll see when you can form a chamber. So, sit down and read from the first to the last member of the law, systematically interpret its provisions and see when something can be done, not to go out to the citizens and convince them of something that is not standing. The law makes it clear that a notary chamber can only be formed when the first 100 notes are appointed based on a competition. You have clearly prescribed deadlines in which the competition can be conducted after that required number of graduate lawyers have passed a notary or public record exam. I'm using this opportunity once again to say that these exams, to take these exams on a voluntary basis. The fact that interest is weak, is there a responsibility of the ministry in that it certainly exists in some extent. In some sense, it certainly does exist. Remember that May 2012 and the whole story that followed the implementation of the first test period. Why have you not published the correct keys to the test done by the candidates during this test period? For what reason? I respect my country, I am someone who will argue even though I may not have liked someone in the previous ministry that it is the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, there is one continuity of institutions, but I do not remember something at the time that a public person like today's throat attacks this law was asking that question. Someone did. I was setting it up back then, and when I got in a position to change something, I started changing. You're saying that this law, this bill of law, is not a disgrace to the opposition but a disgrace to the authorities. I don't know why this bill would be anyone's mess. Brooke would appear at the moment when the law would begin to apply without conditions. You expect the ministry officials to take arms and force the candidates to take the exams? Yeah, that exam should be tough. When I said that in countries where there is a developed public record service, that they are the best-quality lawyers, believe that when they are behind them and that the strict material responsibility for any and the slightest mistake they make is whether or not someone who is a mediocre lawyer will be bold enough to sign up to perform this essential function. Does the public record-efficient service raise legal certainty? To raise her. Did I mention to you the case repeated year after year in Serbia? The average citizen of Serbia once to possibly twice on average during his life buys his real estate, his apartment or the house he wants to live in. It's happening more and more to us, we have examples from the past that one of the same properties buys five people. How is that possible? The Contracting Party appears in court, the contract is only verified, the preconditions for whether the contract is valid, not checked in the catastra if someone has already entered the apartment. Don't compare in this part of the public notebook and the lawyer. Lawyers are people who deal with an extremely difficult and responsible job. I am convinced that when public notebooks are improved, a good part of the lawyers of quality and strength will be interested in starting to deal with this call. In this way, it will contribute to the legal certainty of each individual and much more. The introduction of this competence in the transport of real estate to public notebooks creates a prerequisite for introducing a higher order. Where did it turn out to be top lawyers? Right in the experience of countries in the environment. Why did this great number of people end up behind bars? Because of their irresponsible approach to doing the job. You said it was my insult to the judges, lawyers, prosecutors, I don't think it was an insult, and I quite explained why. You're talking about monopolization, it turns out that Serbia is the only one right because the only country in this part of Europe that doesn't have a public record service that currently works. You said I wanted to reform the reformed judiciary myself. I'm trying like this government and this ministry to save what's to be saved, because our justice system that's been failing for decades since 2010 has started to collapse. What is the goal of introducing a public record service? What is the goal of introducing an executive service? What is the goal of strengthening mediation? The aim is to relieve the judiciary to whom it should be left to deal with the trial. Is it hard to achieve one of these new projects? It is very difficult and he is looking for a broad consensus in society. Would there ever have been some criminal privatisation where some majority shareholders as small shareholders had been deceived by taking away their huge percentage of the action, that there was then a public record service and that the decision of the Assembly of Shareholders had to be confirmed by a public notary? When a public notary stamps something and it comes, in the case of a dispute, before a judge, the evidence force of such a document is much more valuable, and such a correction can only make a top-notch, high-quality lawyer. What does that mean for Serbian citizens? You asked that question. You said we were opening our doors wide to corruption. I'm afraid there's something you don't understand. Corruption already exists and is in that domain and how strong it is. If you can buy the real estate that someone bought before you five times and someone's tricking you like that, and now we're opening a door to something that's gonna prevent that kind of behavior, then you probably didn't get into this matter all the way. What is this law talking about? He's talking about we're trying hard to keep things going, not just this government. The late Minister Batic is mentioned. He is a man whose term of office was made the first working version of the Law on Public Registration. The second attempt was at the time of former Minister Zoran Stojkovic. So this is not something that lasts from today to yesterday in Serbia. It's not this government, nor is this minister who wants to do you any good, in six months he's invented something and trying to apply it. Public service is a service that works extremely well in regulated, democratic countries, in countries where there are laws and laws, and not the will of an individual, and contributes to general legal security. It is our goal to create these amendments to the Law on Public Registration. You mentioned some of the members of the committees in question. I talked to the board about it, I'll take the opportunity to say it. The most natural thing would be for these committees to have one experienced public notebook or more who will question the candidates. Unfortunately, we don't have public records in the last little under 80 years. But as a pioneer undertaking, this must come to an additional understanding. So my message to the citizens of Serbia is -- don't be afraid, don't open the door to corruption, don't perform cataclysm, won't bring the sky down on us. We're just trying to do something that's good. I call upon all those who are interested in contributing to this, to contribute to the quality of these amendments through amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12633	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12634	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, you didn't understand me, but you insulted me. You insulted me by saying I said something out of ignorance. No, I asked you a question that this state doesn't have 100 lawyers who are similar to being public notebooks, and they're not because 100 lawyers didn't pass the notary exam. There's no dilemma and we shouldn't discuss it. But we need to discuss that for six months you haven't been able to finish a job, realize that this law is being applied since 1 March 2013. Obviously, you misjudged your strength, or you didn't think seriously that this law would ever begin to apply. So that's two questions. On the other hand, you should openly tell the citizens that if this Public Note Act ever applies, they will no longer be able to verify their real estate contracts with a public notary, but they will have to contract real public notebooks in the form of notable notes. This is a drastic difference, given what material conditions citizens live and work today, when each third is unemployed, and each other of those who are employed does not receive a regular salary, and whoever receives a minimum wage. Look at what this will be a blow to the existence of these citizens, and now you're theoretically talking about some existence or economic justification by doing a public record job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12635	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12636	From what I hear, you only asked one question, and the rest were findings. Your question was – is it possible that Serbia doesn't have 100 lawyers similar to that for a notary call, is that right? I'm not in charge, and I'm not authorized to appreciate someone's likeness. The word is mostly present in the dictionary about twenty years ago, when it was appreciated by some moral-political likeness of people, and especially by graduate lawyers. Do I think Serbia has a minimum of 100? She's got more. The problem is that Serbia's top-quality lawyers have no motive to apply for one of these tests if, before passing the first exam, they are told the story that the exam is corrupt, if there are doubts about the legality of its conduct, if they have no motive for why. Just to remind the citizens, to pass the notary exam, within that first test period, the citizens had to, those who were interested, pay 60,000 dinars. I don't remember anything, and I followed the debate when this law was passed, that you had such constructive objections to the content of the law. Here it contains this proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Registration is really clear. Is there a minimum of 100 lawyers? There is. Should I name the chamber when the hundred pass the exam? I don't think you should. I think we should have more of those who pass the exam, then only then access the formation of the chamber. You say in six months, this government and the ministry have demonstrated incompetence. I'm saying again, it could be your personal assessment. For these six months, we have conducted two and prepared a third test period, and the law was adopted and entered into force on 17 May 2011, more than a year until the first test period, which was carried out on 27 May 2012. The Ministry of Justice didn't do anything. No testing period has been applied for a year. In a few months, two deadlines were conducted and the third deadline was prepared. If that's anything to you, okay, I respect that, too. You'd probably be better off. When you get in a position to do that, I really wish you good luck. When I said that you said something out of ignorance, so how can you say – why didn't we form a chamber, if the law says nicely when the chamber is formed? You probably missed reading that in the transitional and final provisions of the law. It's nothing offensive, it's more of a finding. I'm sure you read the law well before you entered the controversy about him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12637	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12638	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, when a lie is told more than once, it becomes true. So when you repeatedly emphasize that I asked why you didn't form the chamber, so normally, I know that the chamber can't be established unless you have 100 lawyers who passed the notary exam. That's understood, Mr. Minister, but I'm saying, it's much simpler to repeat one lie more times. So, if a lie is offensive, I apologize, but when you say ignorance, ignorance is an even greater insult to me. Therefore, consider how you behave, for in the sense of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure, which the chairman should have warned you, must also stick to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, so that with due respect you treat the MPs. I know the truth hurts, and I know critics hurt, but how can I tell you, what I said was true, and I supported that with arguments. After all, here's the Law of Public Records, and here are your amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12639	Thank you. Mr. Selakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12640	It was quite clear here from your exposure that you were saying that I was repeating lies. In the light of the Rules of Procedure's provisions on the work of the National Assembly, I ask the chairman to determine who insulted and who he spoke offensively of. Mrs. Popovic, I spoke with full respect and so I keep talking. I have no intention of changing that tone of my address, but I would ask you to have no less respect when it comes to it. I've come here to conduct a good and constructive debate, and all the time I stick to that definition and the text of the law that we're talking about. So, if you accidentally said something that you don't think is true, or if you've made a mistake, nothing is difficult to admit. Here I heard, and I am convinced that other colleagues heard that you asked me – why did we not form a chamber? I'm telling you because it's legally impossible, at a time when conditions are not met, because the law makes it very clear when a chamber can be established. You asked two questions at the beginning of your presentation – why did we not bring in the sublegal acts necessary for the application of the law and why did we not form a chamber? I answered both questions, saying that all those acts for which it was adopted or proposed by the competent ministry were brought in, and that we cannot form the chamber until the conditions laid down by law have been met.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12641	Thank you. Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12642	Honorable Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Members of the 27th and Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Minister Selakovic tried to force you to hold a session in a certain way in his presentation a few moments ago. In this case, he abused Article 103, and you did not respond by article 27. So the infringements of the Rules of Procedure can be pointed out by the MPs. The minister may be able to do so at government meetings, possibly at the classes of the Faculty of Law, if Oliver Antic so allows. In the National Assembly, you take care of order and respect for the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to remind Mr Selakovic and at every subsequent opportunity of any other minister, that he does not have the right to usurp the powers of authority of both the National Assembly and the People's MPs, especially those who chair the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12643	Thank you. I don't think I hurt Article 27, because I realized that Mr. Selakovic was responding to Mrs. Popovic and he didn't insult her, he didn't really talk to her. If you want to be discussed in the voting day, or vote for it, we will vote. Would you like some? (Yes) Okay, in the voting day, there will be a vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12644	Article 107. For the second time, we are experiencing the MPs of one party to mention the adviser of the President of the Republic, Professor Oliver Antic, in some contexts that are only clearly clear to them, in a very offensive way. A moment ago, I didn't want to react, just out of courtesy, when it was said that he was the bearer of an affair there. It would be as if I were to say that some MPs, some parties who have been called upon, participated in the appointments of a modern-day minister, a timely mayor, of which, of course, I have evidence. But it's not the topic of today's debate, so I'd like to ask you next time not to let people who aren't here, especially people who can't be present here today, not to be offended, not to mention in some negative context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12645	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12646	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, let's get something straight. When I asked you, if I asked you, why didn't you start the chambers? You answered, now you finally answered, because you don't have enough lawyers who passed the notary exam and that's clear. But you did not answer. Why do you not have it? The fact that you're saying something, that you're not interested in people, that there's no economic perspective, so you even have to transfer some powers to public records, simply, it doesn't hold water. The first exam took 260 of them, the next 119, then 26. Anyway, that's it, and with 404 candidates out there, it only laid 55. Those are the facts, Mr. Minister. You can talk about chambers, of course, I know that the chamber can only be formed when there are 100 public notary candidates who passed the exam, chosen. Therefore, take care of what you say. This is still a parliament, not a government, not a ministry of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12647	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12648	Mrs Popovic, I don't see why I would make any difference at the level of seriousness between the government, the National Assembly and the ministry of law. All three organs should be the organs of supreme seriousness. Also, I don't see what the problem is if I'm able to admit my mistake, why can't you admit your mistake. You asked me a question – why didn't you at least form a chamber? To that question – why at least we didn't establish, form a chamber, answer why. Feel free to say – I didn't mean it like that, or I was wrong. You can look at the stenogram and see why I reacted like that and why I think I should have reacted because you asked – why at least we didn't form the chamber, when, well, we don't already have enough candidates who passed the exam? That's the whole point of my remark. I don't see what would be so controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12649	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12650	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, there's a difference in transparency. The government's work, the ministry's work is not transparent, such as the plenary session of the Republika Srpska Assembly. You see everything here and you hear it, and the public will judge who said what and who explained what he said. So I don't want to discuss the issue of chambers with you anymore. Normally, once again undermining, the chamber cannot be established unless you have at least 100 public notebooks. You are aware of that and you are aware that in due course you will not have it unless you have the political will to have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12651	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will, of course, support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Notaries. A few months ago in this assembly we talked about this topic, we made it clear to the citizens of Serbia that the Law on Notaries, or public notaries, is extremely important for Serbia, that it is very important for Serbia's European path, that we are practically one of the few countries and on the way to the EU without talking about an EU where the Notary System does not exist. This will, of course, be corrected since March 2014. Notari will bring very good to the citizens of Serbia. In the first sense, the notary is a man with whom our citizens will go to verify the contract, or to perform similar actions for which they have so far had to go to court, to wait for the ranks, to pay a lot of taxes, and now they will go to their neighbor who has one decent office, has all the necessary conditions to work, is professional, has passed the exam, say, provided the register for keeping documents and valuables. So, in one word, in a much more comfortable, much closer, much more quality way, our citizens will be able to exercise their rights regarding what they've had to go to court for so far. Of course, we give full support to the Ministry of Justice, in this context, which at this point delays the application of this law for a year, for a very simple reason. The law therefore said that the notary chamber is formed only when 100 people have the right to be notaries. At this point, we heard, only 55 people passed a notary exam. The notary exam is a difficult exam, and it should be a difficult exam. Notaries need to do very important work and we can't expect anyone to go out and pass that exam. Technically, we can say that the notary exam is about 15% of people. I'd like to call my colleagues' lawyers, when they passed the bar exam, to remember. The legal exam from the first passed about 10-15%. There'll be a chance that maybe one day, the ministry will tell us something about this. I remember when I took the trial, out of 44 candidates, only six of us first passed all the exams on the court. So these are hard exams, these are extensive exams. There is no need, in any way, to react negatively to the fact that a small number of people passed the exam. In any case, the Department of Justice has so far learned everything it could to introduce a notary system. It is clear, of course, that I quote what the minister just said that he couldn't use guns to chase candidates who would lay down. Finally, these amendments and amendments to the law will allow the exam to be passed faster by forming more committees to pass the notary exam. I will remind you, there are three commissions currently in Belgrade for a judicial exam, in Novi Sad one. What's wrong with the formation of a few additional committees to conduct a notary exam? Now we're in a situation, let's say, that people who, for example, want to lay down today, tomorrow, can't lay down if, say, one or two or three commission members get the flu. If there are more commissions, the situation will be much better. So, good law, good for Serbia, SNS will support it. We also expect all other serious representatives, even if, by some, by their constructive contribution, to improve, possibly, the text, and to adopt the law with a larger number of votes. Finally, of course, I will exercise the right to share my right, if necessary, for 20 minutes, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, in two parts. I'm going to use this part to show how, at the very end of the line, it can behave correctly in the National Assembly, instead of just attacking, to be constructive. So, I will use the time of the parliamentary group to call my colleague, Judith Popovic, and I hope that they will listen to me, and the MPs who, along with her, have submitted the amendment, counterpart Olga Batic and counterpart Marjan Risticevic, to have an even better debate when the time comes for amendments, that the amendments that have filed the documents. He's got a technical error. Instead of 2013, it should be written in 2014, if we have studied the amendments well. In that sense, if you were thinking about 2013, okay. If you're not, make sure we don't get into a situation where we drop the amendments on the Justice Committee. I think this is correct. I have used the time of the parliamentary group to point out a potential technical error in amendments with the desire to make as many amendments to the debate as possible and make this law more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12653	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12654	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since ancient times notaries, public notebooks have been giving legal power and guaranteeing the authenticity of the document with their seal and signature. This is the third time in two years that MPs have discussed the Law on Public Registration. I would like to remind you that in May 2011, the basic law was passed and it provides for the start of application from September 2012. Until then, there were no conditions. Last year, in August, changes were adopted, and this extended the start of application for March this year. We are now a few days away from March, before us we have a new proposal, but we also have the arguments presented by Mr Selakovic to extend this law in a year. In previous years, before the law was passed in this assembly, there was a lot of talk about the Law on Notaries in Serbia, and also after that, but unfortunately until today, Serbia has no public records. Even though, as a country, by adopting that law, we have expressed our view of the need for public notebooks, I once again say that we do not have public notebooks to this day. The question arises and raises the question – why does Serbia need public notebooks and why have they not taken effect so far? Since it has been 70 years since Serbia was left by the latest public notebooks, and we heard that during the period and time before that, the institute did not fully live in Serbia. What we can rely on when we want to answer the question why Serbia needs public notebooks are mainly other countries' experiences in our environment. Certainly, the vast and immeasurable experiences of France, including Germany, which had introduced their notary services back to the 13th and 16th centuries, but at this point I think we have found more valuable experiences of those countries that have introduced the last decades and recent years into their legal system of public records. When I say that, I mean Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia, Montenegro, and the Republic of Serbia first. The experiences of all these countries that I am talking about, which have so far introduced the public record service, say that one of the basic qualities of this service is the introduction of this service into the legal system, just to raise legal certainty to a much higher system and especially in the traffic of immovableity. You will agree that in this very segment of our society a high degree of corruption is known. What the Notary Service can change and help is to raise that legal certainty in this area. The introduction of a notary service, public notebooks, significantly relieves courts by taking over public notebooks of certain competences. Today, we heard from the minister, and in Article 2 of the amendment and addition, we see that these changes give additional authority to public notebooks. That way, I say again, we relieve the courts, but on the other hand, we speed up solving all these legal matters. What public notebooks carry with them is one security in investing. We often meet with the fact that people who invest in Serbia do not have complete legal certainty and that all the problems they had in this regard are one huge anti-produced campaign for our country, no matter how much our country has tried to promote the benefits our country offers to foreign investors. Public records significantly reduce the ability to launder money, as transactions mostly go through contracts, and payments are made through accounts rather than cash. All of what I'm talking about, I could say some other positive experiences of the surrounding countries, certainly in favour of the need for public notebooks in Serbia, but also the fact that there has been no visible progress in the rule of law in Serbia. I would not be particularly concerned with why notaries in Serbia have not been brought to life so far. That's what Mr. Selakovic was talking about. I would rather point out those activities that will unequivocally enable the period ahead of us, which has been offered over a year, to be properly and fully used to begin the work of the public record service on 1 March 2014. I am sure that this year before us, first of all, the ministry that has the greatest responsibility for the application of this law, will make the necessary changes, changes, changes in sublegal acts, because we see that there are certain amendments to the Rules of Procedure. That time that lies before us must be used for all these necessary activities. However, something I would particularly like to put an accent on is a period that will take place after 1 March 2014 and all those phenomena that have occurred in the countries in the environment, for all these phenomena we must have an adequate answer. The recommendation and observation of all the countries in the environment is that many more public, first of all users of public notebook services must inform themselves that one positive awareness must be created about who the notaries are and what they are doing, in order to avoid prejudice, certain skeptics and any misunderstandings concerning the notary business. I am not sure that at this point there is this positive awareness in the country of Serbia and that there is this positive information of our citizens. Well, we can't help but overhear all the wrong information, I'd rather say misinformation about the public record business. I almost read the information in one media that public notebooks will have, as it says, a 5,000-euro salary. It is, of course, one total untrue, because public notebooks, as we know and as prescribed by law, are not employees of the state, have no salary, but earn money by their work, and according to the tariffs prescribed by the ministry in co-operation with the public record chamber. Just when I mentioned the tariffs on which public notebooks will operate, it was one of the stumbling blocks in the countries around us, first at the beginning of the work of the public record service. The number of objections from public notary users was not uncommonly significant that the prices of their services were too high, so that in a certain number of countries in our environment, there was access to changes in the tariff rules, reductions in these tariffs and fees for notary services. There have also been remarks in countries surrounding businesses, which are also significantly users of notary services, that public notebooks in some cases slow down economic activity, their slowness and incompetence. I first see the role of the ministry, together with the public register, after the implementation and initiating of the law, that significant and permanent control is carried out by public notebooks and that it is indeed established whether all public notebooks are doing their job in a good way. We're just coming to places where it's clear why a public exam must have one high degree of rigor. One impeccable piece of work should be required from future public notebooks and no error should be allowed. All of this adds to the fact that the time ahead, and that is what we expect first from the ministry, must be used in the best way, in order not to pass quickly and not to wait on 1 March 2014 unprepared, and that at that moment someone comes before this assembly again and asks for a pro-longing of that date. I'm sure it won't come to this, and I expect the ministry to use all its mechanisms in the next period so that it doesn't happen. On the other hand, we expect the government and the ministry to remove all the discrepancies that other parts of the legal system have, which are closely related to the public record service, which would be an obstacle to the functioning of the public record service. We heard from Mr. Selakovic today that that's what it's all about. Each government, if it wants to put order into its own country, uses public notebook services. I'm sure our government will, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12655	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. (Judita Popovic, from town: Replica. ) On whose replication? Mrs Popovic, wait after you didn't answer immediately, I have already given my word to Mrs Radovic. Mrs. Radovic, come in. I'll give you back this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have been in a situation twice since 2011 to change the law that has been passed, the Law on Public Libraries, and in fact, we have not appointed a single public notary. This, of course, speaks of the fact that the government, primarily the previous one, did not take this matter seriously and did not take a comprehensive view of the matter that the law regulates. If I am not mistaken, we discussed this bill at the end of August 2012, and then a group of 61 SNS MPs proposed to amend this law, in the sense that its application would be postponed for 1 March of this year. If you remember, in fact you don't remember because you weren't an authorised representative back then, even though we were expecting it, then the DSS MPs kept pointing out that the deadline set, more precisely, is not a real deadline and that it is not realistic to expect that the ministry that inherited the huge problems will be able to ensure that this law on public notebooks is applied. We also felt that the Law on Public Libraries in the overall chaos, which included judicial reform and, in general, the Ministry of Justice, which inherited huge problems, would not put the Law on Public Libraries as its priority. That we were right and this debate today confirms it. Here I want to point out one very important fact, that the DSS MPs, at least when it comes to the area of the judiciary, everything we've said so far and all the objections they've made, not just in this assembly, but before, were absolutely right. If they had listened to us, if they had simply realized how serious and how serious we were to approach all these laws discussed by the Assembly, I don't think even as a country would be in this situation today. You will remember, too, that we are not only wrong about this debate today, but we were right and last time we discussed the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because in time we indicated that the provision by which it was elected was unconstitutional. This, of course, is not what I'm talking about, because it's not our goal, I'm saying this primarily because I want to point to the foundation, the argumentability and seriousness of our performances in the National Assembly. Now I'm also going to have to point out another mistake that has been made in this bill, which has only seven members. It is, in effect, a Article 6 relating to Article 182 of the Law. The article says the law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, and has been applied since 1 March 2014. It is true that you in Article 7 have said and predicted that this law enters into force the next day, but it is necessary to amend and amend this provision of the law, so as not to put us in a position to have two contradictory provisions in the same law. We have submitted an amendment in that sense. I am not sure whether it will be legally possible, for the reason that Article 6 applies strictly to the change in the language, or the timing. I'm not sure if it's going to be possible, but I'm asking you to simply correct this mistake in any way, whether by accepting our amendment or otherwise. Whether it can be done by the Justice Committee, it's all one thing, but this provision must not stand in this bill, because we will be in a situation where everything that we are in the Assembly today, which is a delay in the application of this law, will not be possible. We also believe that if we reduce the number of members of the examination committee from six to five members, then all five members should be questioned by one candidate. Why do I think this? Mostly because they would thus ensure that each candidate for a public notary has the exact same treatment because he is questioned by all five members of the examination committee. On the other hand, they would remove any possibility, any abuse of a member of the committee in question. That's why I think that amendment is worth your attention. These are also the two amendments that we have submitted. We didn't have any more opportunities to submit the amendments, because this first member, which you predicted, is totally in line with what we think. All in all, this bill is, in our opinion, technical. It does not regulate any major changes, and I am just from your opening statement and I have concluded that you are not entirely in agreement with the text of the law as it seems today and that in that sense it is necessary to endure certain changes. I think the current Law on Public Registration, and that's what we said, and the moment he was adopted, is not the best guarantee for the existence of an independent and independent public record profession. Why do we think that? Because the public record profession is under the overemphasis of the executive authority. If we look at the basic text of the law, then we conclude that the minister has exclusive authority to regulate all those issues relating to public notebooks. So, from the very choice or proposal of the competition commission to the proposal of the electoral commission, as we see today and, of course, to the very appointment of the first 100 notebooks that are in its exclusive jurisdiction. We believe that, simply in our opinion, this principle of work should not be acceptable. We think it violates the basic principle of the public record profession, which is precisely its independence and its independence. If we stay in the minister's appointment, with his solution, the first 100 public notebooks, then we can get into a situation where he will appoint more public notebooks than the public record chamber will do the moment he is formed. In that sense, we believe that this principle of work should not survive as a member of the law. An even bigger problem, of course, than the ones I've just presented, is this process of naming public notebooks. He's, in any case, at least now completely non-transparent. I don't think there are any criteria or criteria for just naming public notebooks. If I am not mistaken, only five members are provided in the basic law, which deals with the appointment process itself, and of those five members, only one position of that one member states that in a situation where selecting between two or more candidates for public notebooks, the results on the public record exam will be taken into account, the results on the judicial exam and, of course, the results on the work of the candidates for the public notary. We think, if that was not enough and there was a huge space left for one, I'd say, arbitrary decision-making and no doubt of an impartial choice. Therefore, we believe that these provisions of the basic law on public notation had to be the subject of today's debate. We, of course, as a parliamentary group, and we have done this before, support the idea of adopting a good, modern, much better law on public records, primarily because we see all the good features of public notation, or public record profession, because of what we consider, primarily, that this will result in the dispensation of courts. The courts will no longer be obliged to do all those actions they would normally have to do, the moment the notaries are formed in Serbia. We also believe that security in legal traffic is already being introduced and evidence is being facilitated. These are three key reasons why we believe the notary must live in Serbia. I'll remind you, too, that back in 1930, we had a Law on public notebooks, which had only a few pages. I once showed it in this home. At that time, he was an advanced, extremely modern law, which in a clear way regulated all the questions that we obviously are not able to do today. It's just, I mean, if back then, over 80 years ago, we had a law that was a modern, advanced law for that time, then I'm really worried if today, in 2013, we're not able to do it. Today, we definitely don't have such a law. I call on you to pay attention to the proposals we make, the remarks we have on the basic text of the law, so that we can come together to the situation to pass the law that Serbia deserves at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12657	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12658	Thank you for your constructive approach, and I'm going to take this opportunity to say something that would possibly have more room for discussion in particular than in principle, as regards that amendment that you mentioned to Article 6. You probably also predicted in predicting what I'm about to mention you made a double mistake. First, Article 6 of the bill clearly states – in Article 182 of the word "March 1st 2013" is replaced by the words "March 1st 2014". The first mistake would be that if your amendment were to be adopted then this proposed text would be completely deleted and we would be in a position to remain in the text of the law on 1 March 2013, and only to change the words "eighth day" in the word "the next day". This law shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, which shall apply from 1 March 2013, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 15 and 16 of Articles 25 to 30 and of Articles 143 and 148 which shall apply from the eighth day from the date of entry into force of this Act. Those provisions have already been applied since 2011. Therefore, since 2011 these provisions have been applied, and these are precisely the provisions of the laws governing the passing of exams and the whole functioning of the Ministry to ensure the conditions for the entry into force of this law, i.e. the application of this law as a whole. So these provisions have already been applied in the last year and a half, more than a year and a half since the end of May 2011. That is why he is legally impossible, because he first refutes this proposed Article 6. The law on amendments and additions to the Public Note, and on the other hand, what I said, is about provisions already in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12659	Thank you. Milica Radovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12660	Mr. Minister, I cannot fully agree with you because it is obvious that we have a problem even if you are thus interpreting this provision of Article 6. Everything would have been different if you, in the provision of article 6 along with these time changes, had predicted that instead of the word "eighth day" the words "the next day". Then we wouldn't have a problem. This is definitely how we're gonna have a problem. You didn't need to intervene with article 7. I think that at that moment, when you provided for article 7, when this law enters into force "on the next day of the day of publication", which is actually necessary because March 1st is close. In fact, in three days, we have the law we're postponing today. In order not to get into this situation, it is necessary that you simply change this article in this direction. Of course, of course, I have no intention of defending our amendment, and you know for what reason. Because I just wanted to point out in this way that there's one technical mistake that's probably been subdued in the bill, and we're willing and working to make it right, not by accepting the amendment, but simply by pointing out the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12661	Thank you. Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12662	I respect the attitude you're defending, only one important correction. Article 7 concerns this proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Registration. So these six previous members enter into force the next day since the day of their publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". By adopting this law amending the Law on Public Records, it becomes an integral part of the existing Law on Public Records. That's exactly the essence of this whole story of ours, and I don't see that it would be necessary to intervene at all in the way that you suggested by your amendment, because it's a completely excess thing. Therefore, these provisions of the law are already applied, applied for more than a year and a half, and here in Article 7, which does not even refer to Article 182, but only talks about these amendments to the Law on Public Registration, it is said to enter into force on the day of its publication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12663	Thank you. Milica Radovic, Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12664	It's just illogical that in one law we have two members who talk about when the law comes into force. That was exactly the reason for my intervention, or our intervention, but if you don't think there is a problem, I'm even less interested in solving it if it's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12665	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12666	Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, we here have a law on public records that was already, some time ago in the Serbian Parliament, and I must say that he was adopted in May 2011 and the president of the Working Party on Law Making was Dr. Dragor Hiber, and in August 2012, the SNS parliamentary group, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, proposed a law that delayed the application of the Law on Public Registration for 1 March 2013. As a reason, it is then stated, I remind you, that the public record exam has not passed a sufficient number of candidates, as well as that no necessary sublegal acts have been obtained, which is now highlighted during the debate. This last one was particularly incorrect and we explained it. You have changed the commission for a public exam, and the chairman of the commission remains Dragisa Slepcevic, who soon resigned under completely unclear circumstances. We sincerely suspect that it is a personal act of Dragisa Slepčević. Your representatives, you personally point out that the courts are buried in cases and that the new judiciary organisation is much more expensive, and you have done nothing at the application of this law, which will significantly relieve the courts and contribute to the transfer of a part of the work to public records. We don't have to repeat the 20th time, my colleagues before me said how important it is to adopt this business environment law, and thus attract foreign investment, etc. I believe that the remaining amendments to the bill were written in order to cloud the real reason and essence of the changes, which are viewed in the fact that, for the same reasons, it is proposed to postpone the law, which was cited during the amendments last August. When we told you that, you were here convincing us Serbian Progressive Party MPs, that it made no sense, that we were just trying to delay cleaning the yard, as you said then. This also reflects the inability of the Ministry of Justice, in an adequate way organising a public record exam, despite the fact that they have changed the commission. They choose the inability to select persons to function as public notebooks and create the necessary conditions for the establishment of a public notary chamber. That the other changes in this law of cosmetic nature are best seen in the amendments to Article 146, which are essentially only in the third point of change and are entirely relevant. Understanding and need to be understood, the law was passed in May and Serbia was the last to pass this law and this notation exists long in our country and that is what my colleagues pointed out. We think you made a mistake in August that you disobeyed the Democratic Party and did not adopt our amendment. We were then, to remind you, asking to extend the deadline by one year, and your MPs were then asking very resolutely for it to be six months. What's going on? Here is Minister Selakovic, who is looking for the same thing that we proposed in August of the month, and it's no big deal, no wonder, this is often happening in the Serbian Parliament. I must say, because of the citizens, that the basic thesis of the SNS, I mention to the party because it submitted amendments to the law, then in August, is that no sublegal acts were prepared. You remember that debate, we were trying to explain back then that it wasn't true, but it just didn't bear fruit. Namely, all sublaws have been prepared since 1 June 2011, when a working group was formed to prepare the conditions for the application of the law, the working group prepared all the sublaws provided for by the Public Registration Act. The provisions of Articles 176 to 180 shall apply. The law provides for acts to be adopted and adopted: the Public Note Test Regulation entered into force on 4 October 2011; the Regulation on the Completion of the Regulation entered into force on 17 January 2012; the Regulation on the provisional number of public records and the official seats of public notebooks entered into force on 20 April 2012; the Regulation on the Public Note Office, entered into force on 20 April, and it is laid down to apply from 1 September 2012. Besides this, in accordance with Article 135. The Law on Public Registration has also prepared a public note tariff to be adopted in accordance with the attached opinion of the Public Note Chamber. On 7 February 2012, the Commission was formed to pass a public record examination. I have to say that many of these things were done even in the situation while the previous government had the character of the technical government. What is often pointed out on your part, Minister, and by the ruling majority, is that this improves the efficiency of the judiciary. I must remind you of the fact that the results have been achieved, until you have taken over the Ministry of Justice and it is best done, it looks into the work of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, which is the largest court in the country where the highest number of cases are tried. Namely, in all five Belgrade courts, in 2008, so before the judicial reform, 125,900 cases were resolved without Eve solutions relating to municipal responsibilities, and in 2011, 192,568 cases were resolved, which is 52.95% higher. Otherwise, in those courts, the number of judges was reduced by about a table. In litigation, the average judges worked in 2008, 22.82% of cases, and 34.70% of cases in 2011. Otherwise, this reform, even though it had its shortcomings that we pointed to, in the basics that we accepted, as a result of the unfortunate circumstances and all that was happening, gave good results, the efficiency of the basic courts was 91% which has never been the case so far, if you know, remind us whether it was once the case. Criminal proceedings do not last more than a year in the first degree of decision and visual progress has been made after all. If all of this compares to 2008, no court has had more than 85% of the overrun inflow and then it is clear what this means for the work of our judiciary. Otherwise, a new law on enforcement and security was adopted, whose full application began in May last year. Since February, a new CAP containing solutions has also started to apply, allowing litigation to end in a much shorter period of time. Otherwise, Serbia will be at the world's top after the confiscation of property derived from criminal acts, and you know that during the previous government more than 350m euros are taken away from the property of perpetrators of criminal acts and in the middle of the Directorate there are more than 150 apartments, houses, hotels, restaurants, restaurants, companies, cash, motor vehicles and works. About this poor reform of the judiciary, Mr. Minister, property was taken from Milorad Ulemek, Branislav Uskokovic, Branko Jocic... (President: Theme. )......................................................................................................... Happy Karića, Milo Djuraskovica, etc. This is important because of the continuous compressions that are being brought out. So, when we have in mind that you're making amendments to the law and you're proposing it by emergency procedure with members of the Parliament's committees and it's under an emergency sign with a session that is two hours late, where you can't collect a quorum for the work of this session, then it's clear that either you don't think this is urgent and important or you don't think that's what MPs think. (President: Mr Stefanovic, second warning. Go back to the subject. I can also say that your judicial bras, gentlemen, have made it possible and I hope that the Law on Public Records can help dramatically disrupt the sense of security with our citizens, because what you have done with amnesty and with the awareness that today's judicial reform is called Uros Misic, who negotiates when they will respond to a police interrogation... (President: Mr Stefanovic, I give you a reminder. You've had two warnings, you haven't come back on the subject, I'm really obliged to give you a warning. ) It really is in line with your understanding, not just of these topics, but of everything that has been said here so far. I must tell you that I expect you to also be rigorous with the ruling majority's representatives, to give them warnings at that speed. In any case, this law is unnecessary in a bad way done in August of the month, you did not listen to our appeals then, you did not listen to our amendments, you simply rushed as you rushed around some other laws and now you have to come back to this Assembly and delay application. I'm asking you, if all of this is true what you said about public records and its state, public records in Serbia, the inability of people to take exams, to apply. So there are real and objective problems, and at the same time you have problems with both the network of courts and other things that you need to do in this country, at the same time you come here with this law, but you came with the Law of Amnesty and other things that were absolutely not a priority. So, my question to you ministers -- on which scale, in which order do you set priorities for what the Ministry of Justice does, and what does it matter to you at all, and might there be something more and more important what your ministry can do, besides dealing with us peripheral matters, political matters and teaching lessons? As you used us then, your last speech to tell the lie about the abolition of the courts in Kosovo and Metohija, so you thought no one would answer here, and check your facts when you come to the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12667	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12668	Madam Chairman, I believe that member 27 and member 109 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the statement of opinion, particularly by the President of the Parliamentary Group, here, in the National Assembly, if sanctions are suffered for this, not only as a warning, but also sanctions mean a certain fine, in a certain way destroying authority, trying to bring down the authority of one who represents the interests of citizens, I do not think that our parliamentaryism is going in the right direction at all. If the representative, and the president of the parliamentary group, the largest opposition party, practically forbids to make a political position, which in the opinion of the chairman, is beyond the topic of the agenda, and concerns at all all what is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, which is in the jurisdiction of that ministry, which is the initiator of the material which was discussed in the government, because the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration is proposed by the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has practically pushed that law into the procedure here before the National Assembly. In any case, if it's about issues concerning the judiciary, there can be no saying it's out of the agenda. In that sense, I ask you to reconsider that decision once again, because no matter what you say, I don't think it can contribute in any way... (President: Time. ) Just to finish the thought, that it cannot contribute to the development of parliamentaryism in Serbia, even I think, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12669	Thank you. I don't think I've broken Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and that I gave Mr Stefanovic a reminder exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because he was away from the topic of the agenda. So the MP has the right to express his political opinion, but within the agenda theme. Let me remind you, Mr. Mikovic, we have a law on amendments to the Law on Public Registration, you are well aware of the text of this law and it is clear to you that there has indeed been a speech off topic. The word is Mr. Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12670	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. I don't think you're right when you claim that you justifiably gave notice to the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr Stefanovic, because simply, if you want to confront the strongest opposition party in this way, that's your right. It is your right to defend the government and try to silence the opposition. I have to tell you, she endured DS and a much worse repressive method of trying to shut up and not tell the truth and to tell the citizens of Serbia what our intention is when it comes to a certain point of the agenda. We really have trouble and trouble bringing the government of the Republic of Serbia here and answering our questions. We use, of course, every opportunity, and this debate on the Law on Public Records to point to unfounded qualifications that we see very often in the reasons of certain laws and which we hear from... (President: Please, Mr. Milivojevic, do not abuse the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate or to express your political opinion. I don't really want to replicate. If I wanted to replicate, I'd find a way to do it. I would just like to say that you have severely punished Mr Borko Stefanovic and that perhaps you should reconsider that decision, because this way of confrontation with the DS will not contribute more effectively to this Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12671	I don't think I've broken Article 108. Rules of Procedure. I have just acted in accordance with Article 108, since he regulates the issue of custody at the National Assembly session. I really think it's about time we all started sticking to the Rules of Procedure. I didn't even give the warning right away, but I gave two warnings to Mr Stefanovic, but even after those two warnings, Mr Stefanovic did not return to the agenda topic. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I gave him a warning. If you feel that the voter's day is... (Srdjan Milivojevic: Yes, I do. ) All right, voter's day will vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12672	The Honorable Chairman, I think you've injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that you threatened the dignity of the National Assembly because you gave notice to the head of the MP's group to mention the words of Misic, who is on the run from the law, to mention the amnesty. It has to do with the minister sitting here, it is about the fact that it is necessary to relieve the courts by introducing a public record service, which you are persistently avoiding. For a year and a half, practically, you allow the institution not to be introduced and the courts to continue to be buried and criminals to be free. You'll probably bring back some new law on amnesty tomorrow, and you'll keep us from talking about these things here. If we're going to the Rules of Procedure, you're instead of 15 seconds of usual practice, today 15 minutes of the agenda, so the MPs can gather in the hall. I'm not quite sure there were 126 in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12673	Mr. Veselinović, let me answer you first. I don't think I've broken Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, and if I hadn't broken my dignity, because you know I've done everything I've done, you've heard. Finally, there are stenographic notes in line with the Rules of Procedure. As for the quorum today, it is very verifiable whether there were 126 MPs, so you can go free, there is now an electronic system, so you can ask the professional service to prove to you that there were 126 MPs. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12674	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I have to react to certain findings that have been made. When I stated that the main reason why the application of the law is delayed is that there is insufficient number of candidates who passed a public notary exam and when it is mentioned that in August 2012 it is said that there is no adequate sublegal regulation, i.e. that the sublegal acts necessary for the application of this law have not been passed, of course, I thought, as I did this time, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is very clear that on 1 March 2013, it is not possible to provide conditions for the application of the law, because an insufficient number of persons has passed a public record exam, which is a condition for the opening of competitions and the appointment of public notebooks, as well as for the establishment of a public register which is required to adopt the necessary sublaws. So, the public notary chambers that need to pass the necessary sublaws and are about these sublegal acts and any word. Not to those who need to be brought by the ministry, but to those who need to be brought by the chamber. I've been looking back on that from the start. Secondly, it was said that the President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Slepcevic, was the chairman of the examination committee, which is not true. He was one of the members of the examination committee and the chairman of the commission was, as he was today, the extraordinary professor of the Faculty of Law, Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber. It has been said that the demonstrated incompetence of the ministry is the appropriate way of organising the exam. I would not agree with that either before it took the Ministry of Justice in the previous government a year to organise only one test period that we have succeeded in a double short period of time to organise three test deadlines. The third should take place and the two are fully implemented. Therefore, whether our incompetence is demonstrated if you have one side of the ministry that could not organize within a year, only after a year organised one test period, and then you have a government that began its mandate in late July, early August and in 2012 from August to December organised two test deadlines, I do not know what this incompetence is looking at. As I said in the explanation, I'll say now. I assume Mr. Veselinovic that you accidentally made a mistake when you said that for a year and a half, it made it impossible for me to apply this law. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: With today's law. ) Disabling with today’s law of application? Applying is impossible for objective reasons, whether someone wants to admit it or not. These are the reasons we can say that no one has affected us here individually, or we've all influenced someone less than we have. No one's stopping the law from happening. We are trying as hard as possible to create conditions for its application because we think this is something that is good for the citizens of Serbia. The law passed the previous parliamentary majority and we think that the law was necessary. Do we think it's the perfect law? Hardly. Perfection does not exist, but with some essential changes as it does in today's bill, I think this law will only be able to improve and people who are potentially interested in this profession are motivated to pass these exams and to help the state apply a new system that will contribute to the creation of a better and more efficient judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12675	The word is Mr. Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12676	The minister mentioned me by name. I don't want to raise tension in any way. I just want to get it straight. I said this government for a year and a half makes it impossible to apply the Law on Public Records. Let me put it this way. Six months ago, we delayed the application of this law by the Act of Amendments. Today's Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, we extend to the second of my government's mandate, and we postpone application for another year, and that speaks of how much you care about this law being applied. It is not possible for ministers that you had no other means and measures to move the law to six months ago and in that period to create all conditions for this law to come into force. Then we would relieve the courts, create more efficiency and all that was the wish of the previous government, and we would count your governments as well. However, you have not done so, you have dealt with other affairs that we have already mentioned, the Law on Amnesty and other laws that create legal uncertainty for us and are contrary to the legal certainty that you have advocated in election campaigns and which you still advocate. I don't think anyone believes you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12677	The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12678	I must say that despite all the efforts of our parliamentary group, we are really trying to understand the way in which you chairmans interpret our exposure. This is a rhetorical question now. I'm not discussing this with you personally. I'm discussing your reading of the system. How is it possible to talk about public records and not talk about legal security or talk about legal security, not talk about amnesty and what happens on the streets of our cities? That's a really rhetorical question. I can't understand, I would appeal to your shame if I knew you had it, but this is really amazing what you're doing. We ask a very clear question why you did not accept the deadlines we proposed in August and you do not answer to us ministers. You could answer that. What were the motives in August not to accept, which are now to go for six months? Will you accept our amendment to be for a year? Now you can plead immediately because we have a desire for this legal institute to start living in this country. We all agree that he is necessary to Serbia. Here, make a statement about these two little things. Is it possible, is it possible that anyone in this hall and the citizens who are watching us think, including you, that in Serbia about the legal order and the legal system can speak in a way that we talk about notaries and only notaries, and that the presentation of ministers and other MPs concerns all other side effects? Then the opposition rises and says so, and you're hitting our warnings. It's below every level and it doesn't exist in this Assembly, I don't know when it happened this way, that at such light speed you move in the footsteps that led you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12679	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, I have to answer you, I have this obligation. You really have a very low opinion of my intelligence, and you know it well, since you can make sure of the subject you were talking about from the stenographic notes. I really think I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12680	I'm not talking about your intelligence at all. I'm talking about trying to understand the way you read the Rules of Procedure and apply the rules. Believe me, no one on this side understands what you're doing. I'm sure the citizens don't understand either, because you haven't explained it to me, not doubting your intelligence, how do you think in this room, no matter what their scream you tolerate, what do you mean in this room to talk about public notebooks and talk about legal security and solving cases and everything else without touching the key laws that the minister here has explained? Do you think in this country you can talk about oxygen by talking about hydrogen in one way and the other things in another way? I don't know what you're talking about when you perform like that, talking about intelligence. This is a very clear question. No one can talk about shoelaces without talking about shoes. And that when you talk about the context, how someone passes this law, what happened in August of the month, maybe they'll ban you from mentioning what happened in August. Is that what we're going to get a warning about?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12681	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll be back at 16:45. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that a new parliamentary group, called "Together for Serbia" has been educated in the National Assembly. The new parliamentary group consists of six MPs. The president of the parliamentary group is MP Dusan Petrovic, and deputy president, MP Sanja Cekovic. We're going back to work. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by MP Branislav Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12683	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, public records exist in most European countries, and could be returned to us after 70 years. A notary or public notebook is an old legal profession, which was introduced to us in 1930. As early as 1944, by abolishing the constitutional justice system, this profession had ceased to exist. In May 2011, the Law on Public Registration was adopted, the application of which was postponed for 1 March 2013. Since no conditions have been provided for the application of the law so far, i.e. no sufficient number of persons have been selected, i.e. they have not passed a public-recording exam, which is a condition for the opening of competitions and the appointment of public notebooks. There is no public-booking chamber to adopt the necessary sub-legislative acts, so it is necessary to postpone the application of the Public Registration Act until 1 March 2014, in order to obtain conditions for its application. Public records are a public trust service. In carrying out their work, public notebooks are independent and independent in their work. Notaries would take on a number of cases from the court, such as various contract certificates, making up and keeping wills, undeniable desert procedures, and will also issue certificates, such as confirmations of name and life, will keep in the deposit of documents and valuables under certain conditions. It'll keep you safe, for example. a will to the death of a leaver or a contract to act until the wedding. The most important thing for citizens is that public notebooks will take over from courts responsibilities for immovable transport contracts and guarantee their accuracy, or guarantee their correctness. That way, there will be no more embezzling citizens in the purchase of immovable property. Under the law, the liability of notaries for damages incurred by its actions will be covered by mandatory insurance. Public records will significantly reduce the ability to launder money, as transactions will go through contracts and other jobs guaranteed by public notebooks, and payments will take place through accounts, not cash. Public notebooks will take over a whole series of stores previously charged with taxes. This will bring benefits to the state, through effective tax control and tax collection. For the territory of each municipality, one public register will be appointed, and for larger municipalities one public notebook for 25,000 inhabitants. The tariffs for their work will be prescribed by the Ministry of Justice, which will also determine their working hours. Notaries are forbidden to participate in political parties' activities and to be party members. The calling of public notebooks is incompatible with the exercise of attorneyship, any other paid profession or function, as well as business that does not conform to the reputation, independence and public trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12684	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12685	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Public Records by an urgent procedure in May 2011, on the proposal of the then Minister of Justice, Ms. Malovic. We are then told that this law is passed because there is a need for legal certainty, to entrust business with a special service of trust. Of course it is. But it is truly unacceptable that two years later, notation has not yet taken place with the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is the last country, in the so-called region, to pass the law, with the intention that courts act more effectively. The question now arises, to which we all know the answer - is Serbia's judiciary more effective in February 2013? Of course not. First of all, because the former Justice Ministry and the previous government only changed the buildings and names of courts, which did not approach the reform, but the deformation of the Serbian judiciary, because they acted as though they were going to rule forever and did not make sure that if there was a change of government in Serbia, that this system would fall, because it was not worth setting up its own personnel and regulating courts according to the will and interest of only one political party. In the meantime, there has been a real disaster and now, indeed, you as justice minister have an ungrateful position to sort of correct and remove it, and we have to agree on it in some way, in a major blockade that exists in our courts. It is then said that this law is necessary for the sake of joining the EU and membership in the World Trade Organisation. Meanwhile, we have become all aware of this, perhaps these reasons are still standing, but that some other reasons and criteria are needed for Serbia to meet to become an EU member, above all, to give up KIM. Minister, I'm sure you know that the first outlines of the notary in Serbia were created in the Kingdom of Serbia back in 1930, and perhaps in some cases before, but to say that this system was then tried. I'm sure you know that even then the minister of justice, so King Alexander had no authority as intended for the minister of justice by this law. The Minister of Justice, at this point, is you, appoints public notebooks, determines the number of public-book sites, educates the examination committee, even determines the working time of the notebooks. I'll quote you the questions that were asked in the debate when this law was passed. "When the work of a public notebook ceases, you did not define it well. Are you aware that the proposal you made, in certain conditions, is only for retirement, contrary to Article 21. The Constitution? You haven't defined exactly what the conditions are for doing this job. "I quoted a part of the speech, which, when we passed this law, was given by the MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. I don't see that in the bill of this law, at least these changes she pointed to, you suggested to the National Assembly. It is foreseen, by the basic law, to enter on 1 July 2012, then in August, we approached the changes, i.e. the postponement of its application for 1 March 2013, and today we move this by one year, to 2014. What was done in the meantime? Today we heard that 55 people passed the exam and that they were running for the notary. At this rate, at least another year will take us to reach the number that the law provides, out of 100 public notebooks. We are far from forming a public-book chamber, which is impossible to form until that 100 is selected. Today you announced that you would intervene in this area with a new law. We really ask the question – why are you entering the text of the law, like this? We've been changing one law three times over the past two years, which has not yet come into force and will not in the next year. The fact is that the law has not developed any criteria for the appointment of public notebooks. I remind you that the DSS, amendments to this law, has requested that the law states that public notation is a free profession. As a party, we asked that some powers of the minister be transferred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that was not accepted at that time. We have submitted an amendment asking for a reduction in the number of notebooks, not to be 100 but 34 of the basic courts in the Republic of Serbia, above all, to make the system work. Maybe everything would have been better and different if that amendment to the DSS had then been accepted. In August of last year, on a proposal by the SNS and the authorised representative, Mr Cvian, this is postponed for six months. We made it clear that I wasn't reading this stenogram now, that by March 1, we would certainly be discussing changes and additions, because we were aware that this couldn't be done for such a short generation. We then requested your presence, that you in this room say it's impossible. You were absolutely aware at that time that it was impossible to do this for many reasons that stand in the way of notation in Serbia living so quickly. We are truly sorry, Mr. Minister, that during the changes and additions, the proposals of these amendments and additions today have not tried to reduce, according to us from the DSS, the overemphasis of the executive authority on the formation of the notary system in Serbia. In the past few years, justice has proved to be blind in Serbia, but unfortunately corrupt. As far as I'm concerned, I noticed that you have a desire, energy and a good will to change the Serbian judiciary, or legislation that regulates it. Indeed, we look forward to a series of legislative proposals to come to the Assembly, so that the poor reform that the previous government has carried out, finally correct, and that people who are employed in the Serbian judiciary do their job honestly and honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12686	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12687	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, above all to point out that the SPS parliamentary group undoubtedly supports this proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Records. Unlike other discussions that were significantly broader and that were further away from the very proposal to amend the Law on Public Records, I think that everything should be sublimed to what is crucial and what is content in the amendments to the Law on Public Records. It should therefore be said that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration should be observed through three key changes of which two qualitative contributions to public records provide the needs of citizens, to dispel courts and to ensure the safety of citizens in legal traffic. What are the key changes? The increase in the competences defined by these amendments, the way in which the public records are obtained, i.e. the way in which the public examination is passed, and the third change is of a procedural nature and it is bound during the application of the law, i.e. the start of the application of the law. Since the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been offended by a stereotype – what is a notebook, or what is a notary, something that is related to the confirmation or overture of the contract is experienced mainly through the stereotype. There should be an indication and a deniability of something that is fundamentally related to the notary function, that it is true that contracts are confirmed through public records, but in the current law of the prescribed procedure and in a way that implies a far greater degree of protection and security. Why? Because so far we've had practice to confirm contracts in court. At that time, contract applicants have only one obligation, which is to take away the legitimacy or identity of the parties, to verify their identity, not to engage in the content of the contract, not to be interested in the essence of the contract and to have such contracts certified and thus enter into legal traffic or legal life. Is that good? Absolutely not good. What is this reason why it's not good? Because certain preventive mechanisms have not been accessed in order to avoid court proceedings for the cancellation of contracts that are absolutely zero, simulated, collapsible, etc. In a particular situation, a notary or a public notary shall have the obligation to apply these mechanisms, to carry out a check of the contract, to assess whether the contract has elements of invalidity, to assess whether the contract has elements of a simulated legal transaction, to warn the party or parties of such deficiencies, and thus to act preventively in relation to what is meant by the subsequent jurisdiction of the court, which is to file an action for the termination of the contract. In this way, we have achieved another goal, and this goal is to ensure the safety of citizens without suing them, because then citizens will have the opportunity to see whether the legal work they conclude can be dangerous, or harmful through the elements of nothingness. As for the second aspect or other important facts that change this law, it should be pointed out that the legislator recognized the problem relating to how to pass a public record exam. What's the problem? We had only one commission, we had criticism that it was so-called. The non-transparent work of the commission, that the composition of the commission was evenly numbered by six, and that there were opportunities to commit some abuses. It should be pointed out that these abuses are not possible and should be pointed out that this time the promoter recognized what should be done, which is to allow the minister of justice to educate more commissions. Today, on the Committee on Justice, the minister explained it in a perfectly clear and legally acceptable way. Making it possible for the minister to set up more commissions to ensure that certain members of the commission can be replaced, someone due to the disease, someone for sudden prevention, in any case, by increasing the degree of transparency. What is important, it is important to point out that a relatively small number of persons, as potential public notaries, who passed a public record exam, points to two facts. The first fact is that it is a completely correct position of the examination committee with strict evaluation criteria, which means that potential candidates must have an extremely high quantity of knowledge, skills and expertise in order to be able to carry out all these tasks that they have given to them in power. Why? Because their quantum of knowledge must be adequate to the most professional, most capable, most organized judges, prosecutors, lawyers. This is the only way to identify what any party, who addresses it, in the notary process, can point to certain problems that the party may have later, and these problems can be solved immediately. It is therefore necessary that those who have this licence, the certificate, anything must have such a quantity of knowledge, or such an expert reference. On the other hand, such a small number of persons who have submitted for a public record function point to another reason that any additions and subsequent amendments to this law are further motivated by all those who want to be notaries. How? In addition to the financial aspect, i.e. adequate compensation for their work, it would be good to consider, as part of their competence, the powers to exercise and supplement the powers and powers that are once again granted to courts. I am thinking of a desert procedure and I think that additional powers in this direction would raise professional authority for public notaries, allow what was before and what would be, hopefully, in the jurisdiction of the court now to be resolved in the procedure in front of the notary, or public notary, and in this way, the courts are further dispersed in those proceedings in which the judiciary already has so-called. narrow throats in conduct, given the high burden, too many cases, and even in a situation where a number of judges who were not re-elected have now returned to courts. All these reasons point to the full justification of the amendments and the addition of the law that is before us and all this I have pointed out indicates that here, at least from the point of view of these facts, which we cannot doubt, there should be one political consensus, that we do not dispute over something that is useful, that we do not argue about what is and how well, and clearly recognizable as well for the judiciary, and for the public record function and that we all support it together. In this direction, and I appeal to fellow Members of the People to support at least this part of the law as it is, and that no doubt amendments to quality amendments, if there is a possibility, the quality of this law is further improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12688	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on Public Registration. The fact is that over the past several times I have considered the text of the Law on Public Registration, the fact is that, apart from the time when the Law on Public Registration will apply, which is foreseen by the law that it will be since 1 March 2014, there are several more amendments that should be made in a certain way to the current text of the law. However, the fact is that, apart from the good intentions of all those who participated in the bill, who have proposed changes and additions so far, the good intentions of those who have submitted this bill amending the Law on Public Registration, it is the fact that, as the minister has said, by quoting me from the board, that it is a pioneer undertaking, an attempt to introduce public records in general in our system. We know that some ten years before World War II a public record system was introduced. Then there were royal public notebooks, the truth, only in two banners, as far as I know from history. It's a certain experience that our legal system has with public records, I speak in terms of legalized history. The fact is that the public record system has been accepted in many countries in Europe. We are practically at the end of this whole process of introducing public records in Europe, but I hope that we will be able to make a system when we do not face those problems that the countries had in the environment, in terms of doing the very duty of the public record service. The fact is that in certain neighbouring countries, there have been certain violations of laws and negative phenomena. In that sense, we need to be aware that it is very difficult for all of this, in terms of laws, sublegal acts and everything that follows the introduction of the public notary system, to introduce it in a certain way in a quality way. In this respect, I recognise those who have proposed the Law on Public Registration and those who have made an effort in the present period to be adopted and the Rules of Procedure of the Public Note Exam, the Rules on the Completion of the Regulations on the Public Note Examining Programme, the Regulation on the provisional number of public notebooks and the official seats of public notebooks and public notebooks, the Regulation on the Public Note Office and the Working Time of the Public Note, etc. So, it's been tried in a certain way, by looking at countries in the environment and their experiences, and by applying such experiences to our country, to get conditions to choose, and above all to train people to perform a public record function and to establish the entire system of public records in a way that will primarily serve citizens. Because in Serbia, at the centre of society's interest it should be a citizen, whose needs must be met and who needs better legal protection, as well as legal persons, to improve legal certainty in the country and thus help strengthen the rule of law. It is precisely the main reason why in the past and now they are trying and from the National Assembly to contribute to the creation of such conditions, yes, we, too, look at good legal practices and experiences in the environment, edit the public record system. They have been given over the past period of a certain assessment and I am sorry that the last draft law was not proposed by the government, but by the MPs themselves, given the resources the government has made available in terms of the bill being proposed. At that time, a number of MPs are scheduled and proposed to extend the deadline for entry into force, bearing in mind that it is difficult to draw out a whole line of moves, in terms of carrying out training tests for all people who need to perform the function of selecting the public notebooks themselves, forming a chamber and further jobs. I just remind myself that right now we have in Serbia 55 individuals who meet only one condition to be public notebooks, which means they have a public record exam. That doesn't mean all those 55 will be public notebooks. Another thing, if we do an analysis of how much the state of Serbia needs public notebooks, 100,000 citizens need minimum four public notebooks, a million citizens at least 40 public notebooks, and about seven million or more citizens in Serbia need 280 or 300 public notebooks. This number is likely to be higher, given that there are a number of municipalities with a small number of inhabitants, and it is certainly the ideal of an orderly country, a regulated state, that each citizen of each municipality has the possibility to verify in the seat of his municipality and the real estate contract and other things to be made up in the form of a public record or where a public record document should be made. When we get to a minimum of 300 people who meet the criteria to be public notebooks, if we have 55 of those at this point, we have to ask ourselves. The other thing, I don't think there's one fact that is present in the present period, which is that it's easy in large areas, in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, Nis, where there are colleges, where there are a large number of high-level people, people who would meet those other conditions in order to even pass a public record exam, and here I mean graduates with a passed judicial exam, who could today -- tomorrow be public notebooks. We have a large number of municipalities that, remember, a number of years ago had a problem finding a graduate lawyer, even without having passed a judicial exam, so that they could fulfill the function of the Secretary of the Assembly as a graduate lawyer. If we are building a public record system properly, we should consider this problem – what about those small environments where the objective state has a certain obligation to ensure that the public notebook, i.e. to enable a copy of the public notary documents and the making of a public notebook? I think these are the topics that are just waiting for us in the next period. It's a topic that awaits us on the Justice Committee. I expect this to be considered here at the tide, because I would be most fortunate if such a bill, regardless of whether it was adopted with the amendments, and I hope that useful amendments will be adopted, especially amendments submitted by DS, but regardless, because even the most ideal law, if we vote it here, I am not sure that it fully corresponds to the practical situation we have in Serbia. That is why I call on you to find, during today's debate, and especially during the period that awaits us, ways in which we can ensure that both in the small environments and in the environments where there are no interested graduate lawyers, or graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam, that they have a public record exam at all, or that they appear today and tomorrow as candidates for a public notary, or that they are elected public notary. I don't think we're aware of that problem right now. The truth in this bill has been made a certain attempt to provide certain jobs for a potential public notary in terms of stimulating all those potential public notifiers and potential candidates to perform their public record function. By describing what the public notebook will still be able to do or what only the public notebook will be able to do, that there will be insufficient stimulation to provide conditions for the quality of the performance of public notebooks, especially in small areas. In that sense, I call on you to encourage this debate today to analyse what needs to be done in the next period, that except for this one part that awaits us in the next period to see how we can stimulate a larger number of people. For the exam to be one that will ensure that quality individuals pass, that the exam is deprived of a trick question or some such questions that will, without serious reason, eliminate a number of candidates. But to be an exam that will be able, in an adequate and measurable way, to respond first and foremost to the demands of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that those who truly meet the conditions regarding knowledge and the possibilities and perspective, that these people will understand what the essence of the public's work is and be good public notaries tomorrow after the exam is passed. That this will be practically one of the moves that you need to contribute to the ultimate line of creating conditions for Serbia to be one of the countries where we will be able to disburse the courts, what is not beyond what is necessary for the courts to work, and in an adequate way to protect the interests of every citizen, every individual, every legal person and anyone whose service is needed by the public record service. In this regard, I urge you to consider in particular the amendments tabled by the MPs of the Democratic Party on the draft law and to see how in the next period, above all, by working within the Committee on Justice, we help all the participants in this responsible work to reach the country's best-organised public record functions. In any case, I expect both in this debate today and in the discussion later on on the Committee on this and in all consultations and possible public debates on the implementation of this law and the accompanying sublegal acts, we reach a solution that should be in the citizens' interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12690	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12691	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members, I am pleased that in this afternoon's work we have decided to discuss the substance of the proposal's proposal, unlike the part of the afternoon where MPs who have had the privilege of appearing among the first, were more concerned with politics or some political issues about the situation in the judiciary or the chasing of some legal concepts such as legal security. I think they got mixed up with general security after they mentioned the situation on the streets of our country. But, well, not all have to be lawyers to participate in the debate, there are also those people who have the courage to be outside the legal profession, and to assess the validity of a bill. So before us is the law with some minor amendments to the Law on Public Registration. I am not saying anything in a peri-curious sense, but these are some of the amendments that the Ministry has decided to give to Parliament, and these are probably some of the shortcomings that were first seen or demonstrated the need for the most urgent amendments in relation to the 2011 Basic Law on Public Registration and which are today being criticised by those who voted in favour of the introduction of such an institute and voted in favour of such text of the law, without any objection. Of course, over time, each of us, regardless of what at one point supports something, is faced with many irregularities, and self-critics is indeed something that I think is commendable, and it is nothing ugly if someone notices that the basic text is actually very missing for use in practice. These minor changes are certainly the precision of the residence of notebooks in line with the territory of the municipality or city where it is to carry out its work. Provisions on an examination committee, where with six, it moves on to five members of the commission and leaves the possibility, not necessarily, but the possibility of creating more committees in question. Obligation of an immovableity contract, to express it in the form of public records and the like. But we can all conclude here that the essence of this bill is, and I am stressing it again, I don't mean anything persuasive that this is proposed, but I would like to commend the Ministry, because this bill, and by an emergency procedure, prevented the embezzlement of a legal state that would result in us not having this kind of bill in an emergency procedure, but on March 1st of this year. It is good, which provides for a stay of application for at least a year, therefore, from 1 March of this year to 1 March 2014. I think everyone figured out what the reasons for this delay were just someone who wanted to admit it, and someone wouldn't admit it. Surely these are the reasons why it is impossible to provide conditions for the application of the law, and if someone thinks it is possible let them specifically say so, because the number of persons who have passed or the necessary public exam to even deal with this profession does not exist. So we only have three rounds of exams, as far as I realized today's discussion on the Justice Committee, we only have 55 on the entire territory of Serbia that have managed to pass this public record exam. Without this necessary number, and to remind you in 2012, Minister Malovic adopted the Regulation on the provisional number of public notebooks and the official seats of public notebooks for which a competition for the first hundred public notebooks will be called. So we don't have that most basic condition, and without that number of public notebooks, it's not even possible to set up a professional chamber at all. Today we've heard different thoughts, the question of why the law is being delayed, I don't know how we don't have people who are going to do it by profession and we don't have a chamber. We don't have two basic elements in the law that was passed in 2011. This time, I'd skip the subject of taking exams. How it came to be that very few people passed this first exam, because it would open up a number of topics and controversy between us and representatives of the opposition who today and on the Justice Committee found themselves hit, even in some private conversation when I gave them some facts about what was happening on the first exam, who passed, why the few persons reported were, was it true that some persons had already answered questions and so on. So, let's just drop it, because we said we'd only talk about the profession to put those speculation aside and leave those irregularities that must have been on the first exam. I didn't take that exam, and I have no intention, but I know people who are and who are very serious and who don't know whether to re-apply to that test if it's such an organization. However, we have received assurances from the minister of justice that they are already on the next exams and all irregularities are really corrected. More important than that, and as it was, how many people were reported and certainly, what is the need to adopt such a legal institute, why we need public notebooks, and someone thinks that it is good and someone that it is not, that it is our harmonisation of the rules in Serbia with European law. Today there was a comment among MPs that it was the introduction of another legal institute that may not be adapted to us and I would consider it very brave, as a complete legal ignorance and ignorance of matter, because it was one of the oldest legal professions in our country, for the first time it was introduced in 1930, the Law on Public Registration, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and was abolished in 1944 as well as many good European things that existed before the Second World War, and at that moment an independent and independent profession and public records were abolished in our country no longer existed. Whether it's necessary or not, it's some layman stuff we shouldn't go into, but the most important thing is to answer to ourselves when the law is passed, is there a need for this kind of interest in us? Again, we are something special across Europe, because it should be noted that of all the countries in Europe, of all the countries in the environment, public notebooks did not find a foothold in Serbia alone. We need to ask ourselves why we are so late for the introduction of this important legal institute that has come to life everywhere in Europe, in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and not with us. The truth works, during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, that law had its function in the area where Austria had influence, and the south of the Danube was less or less applicable. To say that this law is much more modern, different, great discontinuity from 1944 to 2013, so that that time distance also speaks in favour of the introduction of this legal institute. The goals, certainly discharging Serbia's legal system, and I'm sorry that some colleagues from before noon are not here, because they said the opposite, because it's a service of public trust, independent and completely independent by profession. Indeed, the outcome of the introduction of this public notation is greater legal certainty in real estate transport, a reduction in the number of disputes and litigation before courts, and that is the purpose and these are the results in those countries where public records have been made. What's important for our country, it's to achieve savings due to a reduction in the amount of court costs, because this institute creates an opportunity for more efficient work of courts. What is interesting and why it is good that we postpone this law and we can warn a lot about these are the negative experiences of countries in the environment, above all in Croatia, where there were really problems, because it could not be properly controlled by money flows. Some have done so in some ways, money laundering, and it is very important to use this period of one year to create conditions for this to be a neutral instance of the rule of law, to have as much transparency as possible when controlling the work of public notebooks and to make the conditions for granting a licence for the work of public notebooks really have to be impeccable, so that we don't have any mistakes happening in the countries in the environment. The most important thing, when determining who these public notebooks will be, is certainly knowledge, which will be confirmed by one part and passing exams, but also by ethics, and therefore it is important to have chambers, so it is important that the work of the resolution ministry and the control of each individual notebook. Positive examples, because I say, there are many unknowns, what public literature is, indeed, in Croatia lately, it is an institute that exists for 18 years in BiH, Republika Srpska and to say that the desert procedures are now exclusively in the jurisdiction of notaries in Croatia and that is what the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro are looking for. In this direction, I would ask the Minister and the Proposers to think, and thus we will encourage more people to report to the exams and that there are public notebooks, yes and this segment, to give leaven proceedings exclusively to public notaries in charge. There is no doubt that with a good preparation that we need for a minimum year, with media support, in order to explain to the citizens of Serbia what the public register means, that this institute will live with us and show its positive effects on the reduction of procedures, on the efficiency of courts and on reducing the costs of the proceedings. We have not received amendments from parliamentary groups as MPs, so we cannot talk about them, we will do so on the day scheduled for discussion in particular, and the SNS parliamentary group will support these amendments to the Law on Public Records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12692	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12693	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group has indeed joined this topic very seriously in 2011 and 2012, and now, because we believe that the Institute of Public Literature is worthy of such attention. When we spoke in 2011 in one atmosphere when one reform of the judiciary was implemented, we talked about the fact that all entities participating in the justice system and the consequences of one or the other in the domain, amendments to the law, which touch one another, cannot be singled out. That's also the case with public records. The position of judges, the position of prosecutors, lawyers, public notebooks, perpetrators, laws governing their work or system laws concerning matters of litigation, enforcement proceedings, criminal proceedings, when they are brought in, and how they affect all segments of this system of justice. The policy that was explained when the Institute of Public Registration was introduced was how to make it easier for citizens to access justice and how to allow the trial within a reasonable period. It's been thinking about what these are and what are the models. As it was all carried out in the overall concept of judicial reform, it caused huge problems. I will try to point out which problems, if other segments of the judiciary are not solved, can also cause the functioning of the Institute of Public Literature itself, which is both important and important, because at one point you said to the Ministers that it was an idea that has been going through since 2000 and has received its legal framework in 2011, and now we are late with its establishment. In 2011, we dealt with the subject of the transfer of public authority, public records, the transfer of public authority to the perpetrators, and this was explained in such a way that the transfer of public powers would allow the dispensation of courts, the trial within a reasonable period and in fact, the courts would deal only with this subject, and the access to justice would be facilitated for citizens. All of this would have been fine if other things had not happened that had occurred within this reform of the judiciary, which created problems or would have created problems, directly or indirectly. It went into reform by changing the court network. A large number was reduced, a large number of basics were abolished, then municipal courts. Thirty-four basic courts have been formed. Their competencies have been reduced. Part of that jurisdiction was transferred to several courts and at that moment we had in places where municipal courts, then judicial units, empty courtrooms, empty court cabinets and crowded offices in which contracts were confirmed. The idea with public records was just to solve this problem by transferring these jobs to public records. Citizens were then forced to exercise a large number of their rights in places outside their home. We were then pointing out, I simply want to say this opportunity to say that this thing must be truly comprehensively and jointly observed, that we can be faced very quickly, that by introducing public records, by keeping this state of the court network, another important segment of the justice system is at risk, and thus at risk and the possibility of exercising rights both by citizens, and that is the law in small cities. Lawyership in small towns in a situation where you don't have basic courts, when basic courts or units have less jurisdiction and when you have now the introduction of public records, to whom, I must say, the most of those existences of attorneys took place through, which I don't say, and the validation and making of contracts. If the lawyers are shut down in small towns, they will also make it impossible for the citizens themselves to access justice. They're going to have to go to bigger places, expose themselves to higher costs, and if it doesn't start to change the court's network and return basic courts, we think we're going to get into another kind of problem, which is certainly not the goal. We support, our parliamentary group, the introduction of public records, the transfer of public authority. Our position was, here I want to tell the ministers, that precisely because of the fact that such important powers are being transferred, in addition to the contract's clearance, there are also domains of the outsider procedure, that public notebooks should have been elected in the National Assembly, and that such great powers given to the ministry and ministers should not be given. Our concept was to select public notebooks in the National Assembly. The positive side of public records, which I think is not well understood here today in the discussion, does not only apply to citizens and the possibility that citizens quickly realize their need to form a contract and to solve it, but to the economy itself. Everyone who's ever been able to verify contracts can imagine what an atmosphere looks like when a businessman has to verify a contract, when the verifyers work up to two or three hours, lock it up, don't want to come out, mostly not even the presidents of the courts allow them to go out on the field, they need to maybe verify it at five, six, seven o'clock, when they're able, just that day. Therefore, the very positive side of public records is also forced and should not be underestimated here. That's why we think that this is all inadmissible late, because we haven't solved this problem or discharging the courts, we haven't solved the problem needed for self-infliction. Therefore, my address was only in that function that no system of justice could be found, no subject of justice could be singled out separately, nor was it observed that what was happening to him through the passing of the law and its functioning was relevant to the others. I've only singled out one segment of the law that's deeply related to public records, to its existence. At the very end of the line, it depends on the existence and the lawyership and the possibility for citizens to exercise their rights guaranteed by the Constitution and other regulations. Therefore, I invite you ministers to come to the National Assembly as soon as possible with the change of the network of courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12694	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12695	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, we have begun to see the minister of justice very often. It is a pleasure to all of us from the SNS parliamentary group. You have our full support, especially when you're being attacked by those who have led to this situation where we are now. Those who attack you, in fact defend themselves, by blaming you, although there is no involvement in all of this, nor the involvement of this government, and any of your actions has led to the situation in which we are now. It is very difficult to get chestnuts out of the fire, especially if those chestnuts are not thrown out, but obviously you show one dose of courage by a young man who has come to one very important function, the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia and who, if he continues to be this brave, determined, will have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group, and I am convinced, and all of our coalition partners. So today is another law that you, or your ministry, have handed over to this Assembly, and it is about the bill on amendments to the Law on Public Registration and there would be little to say. This is about a very short bill, I would say about one of the shortest we've gotten in these seven months, as far as we're in this assembly. Also, you have courageously announced that you will use these years of prolonging the start of the law to work on the amendments and additions of certain members, which, although not effective, have proved inadequate for our terms. There have been very constructive discussions here, and I would say fellow MPs from opposition groups, who have pointed out certain facts, given that it is professionals, people who face problems every day of the court, the problems of the judiciary and who have very well recognised that these courts must be relieved, by having a notary, by having a public notary service, or people who will take a huge part of the work that is in a certain sense and in a large scale, in fact technically, by the basic courts mainly, carry out over a variety of documents. What you have proposed by this law, and which is very acceptable for two reasons, is the first economic nature, and that would speed up that many people want to be notaries, to pass this exam, that is to transfer the authority of the contract, of all contracts, of the movement of immovableity, and thus create the possibility that the costs and obligations of the notaries will be accelerated in that financial part, which, of course, everyone who works wants to earn and, of course, everyone has that interest. I also think attention should be paid to that part, and it concerns security of premises and security of material resources, which the future notary must provide. In today's times and this social situation and economic crisis, of course, that moment is also very important and therefore the legislator should help future notaries with a solution that will allow the state to participate in material resources, financial injections, potentially favourable loans that would enable these young people to provide immobility, which of course must be adequate, which must provide a particular cash register in which documents and certain valuables are kept at the notaries, so it is also one of the very important elements. What is important is to say, and that is all pointed out, it is amazing that on three occasions when we pass a public record exam we have a pass, or 55 persons, given that it is the graduate lawyers who passed the judicial exam and who have had the experience of five years in the profession. Indeed for me and for the professionals who are in this assembly it seems absurd. Is this level of questioning so much that it's a big problem for these people who have experience, they've finished law school, they passed a judicial exam, and we've come to a situation that they can't pass a public record exam? Personally, I don't think that's the point. I think it's something else, which is that the judicial exam is very easy, very easy, that I don't go any further, he took it. We got factory graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam that apparently, if they worked in the profession, the least they could do was go and see how it worked in the outsider procedure, they could see the contracts being certified and see what it looked like in a technical sense the work of a notary, to read it and go to the exam and pass it. However, there has obviously been a devaluation of many things in this Serbia for the past 12 years, so it was obvious that there has been trade and shopping here, because there is no logical explanation, at least for me, and I think for the public of Serbia to pass one exam, and the other cannot pass an ordinary qualification. It is very good that this law extends that the transfer of all immovableities can be carried out in a public notebook, not just the immovableities of persons who are incapacitated, or, for example, children who have to do so through their parents and who do so in a public notebook. In this way, the job dipazon is increasing, so the notaries can absolutely benefit from all of this. We heard from the minister that in both Germany and France there would be no notary system if contracts were excluded, i.e. the traffic of immovableity. There won't be much missing from the law offices. We made contracts. Most of the time, people were alone, and there won't be any special differences in paying Serbian citizens who make contracts once or twice in their lifetime buying real estate. Of course, they will pay the tax they owe to the state and will pay services to a notary that will also not be fabulous. If someone wants to scare Serbian citizens by introducing a notary system to create some financial problems, i.e. to rob Serbian citizens, I absolutely argue that it will not be. Of course the minister recognized it. The absurd fact is another fact, which is that all countries in the environment, and here I think most of all about the countries that have been decomposed by the former Yugoslavia, have already more than ten, and some and 15 years have a law on notaries and that they have revived and revived the work of notaries. In all of this, we are so far behind that you simply have a sense of some indifference in relation to everyone else. As a result, over the year, which the minister proposes we get one space, or vacuum, will be fully used to prepare, to allow on several occasions and more opportunities with more commissions, more on the other hand, for all those interested to be able to lay down. At this moment when this law is passed, of course, the SNS will give its vote and will support this bill, and we ask our minister for and we ask for it, and obviously we knock on the open door, given that the minister will and today in his pledo, will work on the amendments and additions of this law to adopt it, and that on 1 March 2014, Serbia will finally get a notary and equalise itself with all the countries in the environment and thus meet another step in the EU accession agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12696	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12697	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, it is certain that the Law on Public Records, the Law on Notaries, is one of the laws that should be fully rounded by judicial reform, to enable courts in the Republic of Serbia to deploy and to start working more efficiently, and to make their rights available to citizens in a better way. To avoid much mystification, notaries will provide professional assistance to citizens when concluding contracts, different statements, wills, various assets, and it is certain that this will give them greater quality in the exercise of their rights. I think that's what we all agree on in this room and I think both the authorities and the opposition and the ministers and representatives of the DS, but what we cannot agree on and what we pointed out today during the debate is that the application of this law is delayed indefinitely. So we had a problem applying this law. We've known about this problem for a year. The solution that you offered us in August of 2012, when I say you, I mean the SNS parliamentary group that proposed to this House the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Notebooks in August 2012, then you offered us as a solution to the postponement. Now you're offering us as a solution to this problem rescheduling. Gentlemen, it is not a solution to some problem by delaying it, so in the end it will be a year and a half, and then we will meet in February 2014, because this law should enter into force on 1 March 2014, and then we will postpone again for some reason. The last time you asked for a stay of the law, and you already formed a government, you said -- we couldn't apply the law because the former ministry didn't bring all the sublaws. That's when you claimed and asked this home that it took you six months to bring in new regulations, to lay down new rules, to apply whatever it takes, to establish a chamber, to get a tariff. I've taken out all the speech from the Proposer's representatives since 29 August 2012 from which it can be very nice to determine. On that occasion, you once said the former regime and blamed someone before you for something not being done. Who do you blame today when you're in power for seven months? Who's to blame now? Now it's the current regime's fault. What's happened in the last six months? What are the rules you promised us in August? No regulations have been passed, no sublegal acts have been passed, no amendments to the law have been made. No, because the last time we discussed it, we proved it to you in the debate, then he wasn't the minister, they were representatives of the SNS as proposings. However, it was not clear to us why the government did not propose these changes and additions, but suggested a parliamentary group which obviously cannot apply the law. That's how we proved to you that all conditions were met. All the rules were passed during 2012, all the sublegal acts were passed and no sublegal acts were to be adopted. They have not been brought to this day, nor is something new now proposed. I think that here in the middle there is certainly incompetence in the organisation of the work that you are doing, because you have failed for seven months to attract people to take in a larger number of notary exams, to pass a number of them, to explain to the citizens how significant the notes are, why this job and this call is significant and in the extreme case of how much that call is being made, because today we heard from the minister that one of the main reasons is that it is economically not worth being a notary. I have to admit, I'm surprised by the minister's explanation, that in the criticism of this law he's calling on some German experts. I am surprised because the Law on Public Libraries was made in collaboration with German experts, because GT Z paid one German company and made this law in terms of funding members of the working group, funded and public debate on this law and this law received all the transitional reviews and best possible assessments from institutions in Europe, and especially from Germany. In the working group were then working, one of our biggest legal experts in the field of public records and general civil law, Professor Dragor Hiber and worked by Professor Oliver Antic, who is now an adviser to the president of the Republic. We didn't get any changes to the law. In my deep conviction today, what we're discussing is nothing new, and I think these changes are negligible. I think the real reason for today's discussion is the delay in application. We postpone application for 1 March 2014. So that it would not be interpreted as incompetence of power then it was proposed to change three, four members, who, in my opinion, do not bring any fundamental change. I think these changes are bad, that the new solutions that are proposed are worse than those solutions that exist in the current text of the law, and I'll explain why. First, the number of committee members changes, is no longer a six-member exam committee but five members. I don't see any significant difference in that. The other thing, there won't be another commission anymore, there'll be more commissions. We don't know how many, an indefinite number of commissions and they'll have an indefinite mandate. You know, when I listen to the debates all day that this exam is very difficult and how strict criteria are, which I normally think is good and that we agreed on on the Justice Committee, both Minister and I, and then proposed more commissions, it seems to me that now there will be some other committees that will be a little easier to examine, have a smaller and weaker criterion and that we will actually have an unequal criterion between the commissions. So we're going to get into a situation where someone who knows better, and lays before one committee, doesn't pass that exam, and someone who knows worse, maybe passes a test in front of another, even though his knowledge is much less. We have experience from other countries and I think these experiences tell us that the exam has to be strict because it's very important that people who become notaries have a sufficient level of knowledge. It's a bad solution with multiple commissions. The second thing, the fundamental change that you have proposed, which is that all citizens must contract to buy immovable property to verify, i.e. concluded in front of the notaries, not that they can do so in a transitional period of two years and in a court and in a notary. The current solution is such that contracts can be verified both in court and in notaries for the next two years. Why is that solution so put in place? Because it will start applying this law when you select 100 notes and form a chamber, but you will not choose the number you really need. There will be a municipality in Serbia where we won't have since the start of the application of the notaries. In these municipalities, people have the right to verify contracts somewhere. If there is no one from Kursumli in the first 100 notes, people will not come to Belgrade to verify notaries in Belgrade. They would have the possibility of a two-year transitional solution to verify that contract in court. We can't deny citizens one day that they have the opportunity to verify contracts if they want to. I think that transitional solution is much better for another reason. We'll see if the notaries work well, or if they don't work. What do we do in a situation where they don't do well, when they don't have the options, etc.? Life can't stop and make it impossible for people to close their sales contracts. I'm a member of 82 that defines what must be in the form of a public record you don't change at all. All that was determined by the basic law is now determined by these changes and additions. Article 83, which speaks of what might be in the notaries, also remains the same in all its 12 points, except in one where you condition that right away at the notaries you have to verify the purchase contracts. What did you state as a reason for such a solution? You've stated that it's not economically cost-effective to do a notary job if it stays that way. First of all, there's no evidence of any such claim and you haven't convinced me. What we all know, which is that notaries, both in Europe and in the region, are one of the richest people, make great money. Their earnings and economic viability depend on the tariff, and that tariff should be brought by the Ministry of Justice on a proposal from the Notary Chamber. Then bring the tariff that's higher if you don't think it's economical. We all know the notaries haven't started working yet. I think it's too early to estimate that they won't be able to make it worth their while, and I think it's even counterproductive in terms of attracting and encouraging people to apply and perform such an important activity. In the end, I suggest that the ministers adopt the amendments proposed by the DS. I think by September 1st there's enough time to establish a system and form a chamber. You've chosen 55. So far, the only task that the Ministry has is to choose 45, there are no other assignments. Everything is done, everything has existed since 2012 only takes 45 people who meet the conditions to pass a notary exam. I think you can do it in six months. I think in the next six months you can organize a campaign in that direction. I have an impression and it's something that bothers me, because always in these discussions when solutions are made that are not clear enough, there's some background, and that's the impression that one of us known should meet the conditions, and the conditions are, among other things, five years of dealing with some business in the legal profession. Maybe on 1 March 2014, that someone will meet that condition, so we should all wait for the system to start when someone meets the conditions that they can run for the notary. As I said on the board today, I have the same impression that when you form several committees per five members that there will be some 15-20 people who will receive money, and we don't know what they're going to do. How many commissions, when we don't have enough candidates for this one commission? We had a total of 260 candidates, 55 passed, now we increase the number of commissions, and we say we don't have enough to choose 100 notes. When notaries are selected, then there is no need for commissions at all, because notaries will eventually change when someone stops performing their function. It seems to me that there is a motive, as if more than a few experts are getting paid by this state sitting in committees, and they have nothing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12698	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12699	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, as far as the Law on Public Registration of all former Yugoslav republics is concerned, Serbia is the only one still not applying the Law on Public Registration. Notares, i.e. Public notes have been introduced by Slovenia 20 years ago, and the provisions of the Law on a new judicial profession are widely implemented in Montenegro. Resuscitation of public records in Serbia's legal system will establish legal certainty, especially in the transport of real estate, shortened the duration of proceedings now in the jurisdiction of the court. Public records will significantly reduce the ability to launder money because transactions will go through contracts and other issues to which public notebooks give, and payments will take place through accounts. They will eventually take over a whole series of pre-taxed shops and thus bring benefits to the state, as they will enable effective tax control and tax collection. When notaries start to work, citizens should do easier and cheaper legal work that now ends exclusively in court. So those who do not have a court in their place could turn to the notary instead of travelling to the nearest court. The law provides that the notebook must have a residence in his office, which has not been the case so far. This is important because notebooks from other cities are not costing and being tied to citizens who provide services. The standard, as we have heard, is that 25,000 people are employed by one notary, which means that Serbia needs a minimum of 300. For the time being, they are insufficient, because only 55 candidates passed the public exam, and we have heard that it takes 100, how many laws, to form a notary chamber, which should bring a tariff for payment of services, as well as other sublaws. When they first open their offices on March 1st next year, public notebooks will have to have a safe or warehouse in which they will store deposit items of greater value and size. In the public deposit, clients will be able to leave money, securities of value, except for serial and dematerialized, files, manuscripts, records, personal archives, documents, decorations, art items, precious metals, jewellery and other valuables. In a notary deposit, no citizen will be able to leave things, documents or money behind. The logbook only receives what is in the function of its action. For example, the party may deposit its own hand will, in order to be handed over by the public notebook in the event of his death to the Leaven Court. The new institution will take over part of the current affairs of the courts and authorities of the administration. The public notary will be authorised to draw up and verify agreements on the share of the joint assets of spouses or out-of-marriage partners, legal maintenance agreements, fixed-state contracts, life-to-life settlement agreements, life-sustaining contracts, availability and movable contracts, statements and availability of assets for the establishment of an asset or fund, will be subject to wills, statements that the necessary successor is excluded from the inheritance, etc. In particular, the provisions relating to immovableity are important, because we will finally get legal certainty in this area. According to the legal solution, public notebooks will not only verify signatures on fixed-moving contracts, as our courts are now doing, but will also be responsible for the content of these contracts. In addition to these activities, the law also places certain restrictions on public notebooks when it comes to taking over court cases. For example, public notebooks cannot be entrusted with procedures relating to the declaration of a missing person for the deceased, proof of death, deprivation, return and extension of parental rights, the keeping of a public book and register, detention in a health institution that performs activity in the field of neuropsychiatry. As we've heard, public notebooks are forbidden to practice law or other paid occupations. They can't even connect and co-operate with lawyers, nor share a common business space with them. In addition, public notebooks are forbidden to participate in political parties' activities, to be members of their organs. At the same time, they cannot finance political parties, coalitions or candidates in the elections, which means that public notebooks have a responsibility under the law and are even obliged under the law to compensate for the damage they cause to someone in carrying out their work. They are also responsible for any damage caused by their trainees, assistants, or administrative staff from the office. These are just some of the provisions of the Law on Public Registration, which came before us from the MPs and who, after more than six decades, is returning this judicial profession to Serbia's legal system. The Republic of Serbia adopts the law under the EU association programme, so the SNS will vote in favour of amendments and additions to this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12700	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12701	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Libraries. I ask the chairman to take care of my tone, view, etc., to warn me in time that I would not pass as head of the parliamentary group, since he did not act, according to all the new rules applicable to the opposition. Please draw my attention to everything you think is not going to benefit the parties in power, to bring time to the context of the new position chairing us. We are talking about a law that was given by emergency procedure, although the fact that the application of this law would be delayed was known from earlier. I don't understand why, led by rationalization, we have a new session when we could discuss it as part of the previous extraordinary session. On the other hand, I'm not quite sure if this is one of the laws reforming the reformed judiciary and whether it's the beginning or the end of that reform, since we've already had one law, I don't know if it can, the chairman, be mentioned, it's the Law on Amnesty. This second law on amendments to the Law on Public Records is not such as to say that it is a serious reform of the judicial reform that you have announced and which you have rightly put first as a pre-election topic. Citizens expected much more than four members, of which it is a basic member to apply the Law on Public Libraries. As the ruling coalition MP inspired it, it is good that we postpone the law and therefore we will vote in favour of the law. What good is it that the Law on Public Libraries is delayed, that citizens will not have the possibility that, like other citizens of all countries of Europe, not only the EU, they have public notebooks and that they are doing some of the jobs that are now being done by courts? You're saying that these courts are swamped, that they can't properly respond to the demands that are being made before them, and that public notebooks will respond to that request, or relieve the judiciary to, say, deal with serious affairs, such as trial for serious or serious or less serious crimes, let's say, to judge some of the persons you've amnested, and now they're back on the loose, so they've done, probably, again, crimes. Does this law on amendments and additions and the disposal of laws for another year need to contribute to a more effective judiciary, to any improvement for citizens, or does it go in the opposite direction, dear Minister? It's not clear to us whether these remaining three provisions, past the one I mentioned about postponing for a year, should improve the existing law. With the right, my colleague Konstantinovic, who is also a lawyer and knows the justice system, pointed to the fact that we will have problems with those municipalities, cities, places where not the notaries are chosen, that they are likely to, that these selected notaries who will now be well paid, well-settled, will be sitting in their seats, and that citizens will travel to verify the contract, for example, about a purchase car, because now it is mandatory to verify it with the notaries, is not immobility, I apologize, but, for example, sell some small parcels, land, which is worth some small sum of money. We are essentially going to the public notaries who will now be elected, i.e. who will now be taking public notary exams in a larger number, an unlimited number of commissions, since the law does not limit the number of commissions that you will appoint, my amendment is going to be that you can appoint more commissions and not more than three, precisely because we do not come into the situation that we have a dozen, fifteen commissions appointed indefinitely and that will function when we no longer have to, because all the notaries will be selected. This law can lead us all into such a trap. On the other hand, the government's main postulate was attracting foreign investment, which would also mean speeding up some procedures. This would mean that the contract, like all over Europe, is certified by a public notary, that it does not have to be a new investor or a domestic investor to verify it in front of the court. You are postponing it for the next 12 months, although we in August, with our colleagues, suggested that it be a year and that in that time we create enough space for the ministry to ensure the start of the work of notaries in the last country of Europe that will have this institution, or whatever we want to call it, which is not for the first time among Serbs, so to speak, because it existed before World War II. So it's an old institution that we can't reintroduce to the legal system even though, in fact, the previous government has prepared all the conditions for it to be so -- passed the law, passed the sublegal acts, entered the procedure, set up commissions, exams, etc. The exams were difficult. Unfortunately, someone has a thorny path to the diploma and to the exams, someone is less thorny, but perhaps it could be improved by the appointment of another or two commissions that might be a little more lenient, so they will miss out on those who will make good money, because they will verify all possible contracts that are concluded. Is this the intention of being someone from the current ruling coalition, whether this law is designed to that extent, difficult to assess. However, the ruling coalition's decisions so far and these governments are saying that I am not talking about all the appointments we've had so far. What I think would be necessary to change in this law, I mean the amendments and additions to the Law on public notebooks concern the following members, an existing Article 83, which speaks of the work of public notebooks. I really don't think it's time for us to give public notebooks an immediate opportunity, as an exclusive possibility, that they're the only ones who can verify the real estate contracts. This will create problems in the application and implementation of this law. This can create a problem if the notaries start working in some large environments and not be interested in notaries in some smaller environments. On the other hand, I think that you should consider, dear Minister, the fact that you restrict your right and perhaps some future minister, because we are not sure that you will be minister in a year, to appoint more commissions for the election, or for the examination of public records, or public notaries. Limit it to a certain number, three or four commissions, to make it 20 people, so that all those who wish to take a position can not turn it into fostering someone or reducing the quality of those commissions. I don't think anyone would lose anything with that. On the other hand, one member who, I must admit, is not quite clear to me is a member of the first of these amendments and an addition to the law, where it is said that a public notary must have a residence on the territory of which it carries out public work. I must admit, in that sense, the previous law was also a little impeccable and perhaps somewhat controversial. There I might agree that there was a need to propose some kind of change. What does that mean exactly? First, I believe that this is contrary to several principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with a member of 39 who has the right to move freely and live anywhere in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, it is contrary to the principle of guaranteeing the right to work, in accordance with the law, and everyone has the right to free choice of work and all of the same conditions are available to all jobs. On the other hand, the principle of free entrepreneurship is also limited with this member. What do I mean? A lawyer who meets the requirements - five years of internship, passed a judicial exam, passed a notary exam, and, say, lives in Begeč, that is the closest I am to living in Novi Sad, cannot perform the function of notaries, or the work of notaries in Bačka Palanca, which is closer to him compared to Novi Sad. Or, the lawyer, who has fulfilled all these conditions, can't do a job in Raca. On the other hand, his colleague from Batajnica can do the job, say, in Obrenovac. I don't see that logic at all, and from this article it comes out. I have not without reason cited all these constitutional principles with which this member is contrary, precisely because it will lead to confusion and inequality between people with the same expertise. I don't think this member is correct, because it will lead to someone who doesn't want to live in Alibunar, and maybe he's from Vršca, not being able to perform the function of a public notebook because he's going to have to live in Alibunar and report his residence there unless he wants to lie. I don't think that's necessary, and in that sense, the movement of people, experts, should not be limited to this member. In that sense, I believe that this law, apart from the fact that it is unnecessary to postpone it, is that its members are very controversial and may only be designed to have another member besides this member to whom his application is delayed, except, I said, a member with whom I would generally agree, that a number of commissions may be increased, if that is only the problem, but not over three commissions. In that sense, I believe, Minister, that you should deal with more serious issues when it comes to justice than this, to ensure legal certainty in the country, because citizens feel less and less secure. On the other hand, this one institute, known everywhere in Europe, as soon as possible in Serbia and not come back to the situation early next year, in the spring of next year, that this law is being postponed again and that we still do not have notes in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12702	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12703	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I take the risk, regardless of what a fellow member of the ruling majority has said that those who are not lawyers should not deal with the laws of this Assembly, that, first of all, we are citizens here and we represent their political will and our job is to deal with the laws, whether we are lawyers or not. At the same time, I want to deny another claim by the ruling majority that we on the laws should only conduct an exclusive expert debate and that there is no place for politics. Every law is politics. This law also shows the government's policy regarding a very important social issue, which is the issue of introducing public records into our legal system. When, just a few months ago, this same government came to this Assembly with an emergency procedure to postpone the application of this law, we then suggested that the delay be extended for a year, to give the government enough time to start applying this law by the end of this year. Now the government has come to us asking us to postpone the application of this law for another year. What is much more important than the fact that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration contains only four members is a more important explanation of the Government with which it came before the MPs. In everything, an excuse has been sought, only in one single word has it not been mentioned that there is a possible responsibility of this government that failed within the deadline that it has set itself to prepare the conditions, so that this law can be implemented. What is also offensive is as an explanation that the application of this law must be delayed, an attempt to transfer responsibility to the government, which this law has also proposed to the parliamentary majority, which this law passed in the previous assembly's session, trying to, freely say, deceive the public with claims that no sublegal acts were prepared that were necessary in order for this law to be implemented. If you look at what sublegislative acts to be brought in and if you look at that election commission being formed, then it is clear to all of us that everything has been previously done to get to the point where the commission, formed by the ministry, can carry out the application and examination process for this job. So the question arises why this government, if only 55 candidates passed the notary exam, did not organise a few more test deadlines in which candidates could apply and we could talk today about having met a minimum quota of 100 candidates who passed the exam and who meet the conditions to deal with this job. No, responsibility is transferred and in some ways insults the entire legal profession in this country that is now being presented as unable to pass the exam. If you consider that there are thousands and thousands of lawyers in this country with excellent experience in the legal profession, it is impossible, something else is wrong, that 100 of them cannot pass the exam. The Minister's question is, would he pass that exam? Is there anything wrong with the exam, or has the government not done enough to keep enough deadlines and to encourage enough people to apply? It is symptomatic that more than 200 candidates appeared on the first ad, and the last one organised by this government was only 25. So there's something problematic about what this government is doing in implementing this law, which leads to people having some doubts about the whole procedure and because of this kind of suspicion they're not ready to go into that procedure. The argument that a possible profit that is small, according to the minister, is even more demotive, and that is why the proposal for this law suggests that the transitional solution that existed in the previous law, which has been said that within two years of the application of this law, the purchase agreement can be certified both in the court and in the notaries, in order to ensure that all citizens are able to have the agreement certified. Now to stimulate the profit of 100 notes, citizens will be prevented from verifying their sales contracts in the place where they live, because there may be no one among those 100 notaries to verify his contract. Explain the reasons for amending the law by not making enough money is actually the reason for the absence of motivation shows at least a few things. So either the intention is to create conditions and a chance for certain people to earn more money, so the law is delayed to create these conditions so that these people can get a chance to deal with the work of a public notary and then not allow citizens to verify the purchase contracts in court so that these same people can make more money because there are no other arguments. If 200 and something were reported in the first round, it means that the interest in this job is great, that it is an estimate of those who report that it is a job that brings safe and sufficient profit and that it is not the job of the minister to allow them to earn even more, because it is not enough for them, so it will now make it impossible for citizens to verify their contracts by having to travel to another place where there is a notary to verify their contract and notary to earn enough money. What is the biggest problem is an explanation for the reasons why this law is proposed. In that explanation there are all answers for all dilemmas. There is no delay in the application of this law because there is no interest. The application of this law shall not be delayed because it has not previously been adopted under the law. The application of this law is not delayed because there are no conditions to move on to the next step. All conditions are created. The application of this law is delayed because this government did not do what it had to do within the time limit it set itself, even when we suggested that this deadline be longer, they claimed it was sufficient. Now it turns out they weren't ready to do the job all the way. If not, then it really raises the question of who the conditions are being prepared for to be in countless commissions, because there is absolutely no limited number of commissions. We're free to say there can be countless. So for any municipality, it could be a commission. The very fact that there will be so many commissions presupposing that the criteria will not be the same and that in this way they will be made possible by some, we can assume to the very chosen ones, to pass the exam and beyond those criteria that were applicable to all others, and above all for these 55 who have passed the exams so far. Because it's not a problem that the exam is difficult, the problem is whether the exams are clear, whether there are clear criteria, clear questions, clear knowledge checks, or there are tricks in them that need to show how resourceful you are. So, as far as the Democratic Party is concerned, we believe that the issue of introducing public records is of paramount importance. I would not repeat, my colleagues have instructed all the reasons about it, starting with that Serbia is the last country in the region and in Europe that still has no public records, until the government complains that the courts are overcrowded, that the network of courts is insufficient, that it cannot be achieved and that citizens cannot come to justice. Public records relieve the courts and, therefore, that this government was prepared to prepare everything necessary for this law to be applied by the deadline set by itself, we could today talk about how the courts were relieved of those matters for which public notebooks were authorized. This leaves reasonable doubt that the minister's arguments only confirm that the reasons for the adoption of this law, which requires a delay in the application of this law, are in no way lying that the government is ready to thoroughly prepare for its application, but that there are reasons to indicate that we suspect that there is an intention to apply it selectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12704	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12705	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister and State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is of the opinion that this draft law amending the Law on Public Records is very important because it addresses citizens' issues and problems, as it has been concluded today, that courts are burdened and buried and that this law would allow these courts to be disbanded. That is why the PUPS will support this bill in the voting day. Public records are a public trust service dealing with experts in the field of law. Today, we have concluded and heard many speakers that these are mostly the best lawyers to deal with this problem, which, on the basis of public authority, accept from the parties a statement of will and give them the necessary written form and issue documents that have the character of public documents. They also give parties advice on issues which are the subject of their actions, take other actions and carry out other tasks under the law. We have heard today that this law is very important and that its application is important, given that all countries in the environment have generally passed this law and that this law exists in all modern European countries. Because of this, it is indisputable that this law is necessary and that it should be supported. This is the only issue - when the law has a realistic chance of being applicable, if it takes into account the fact that the Public Registration Act was passed in May 2011 and that its application is scheduled to begin on 1 September 2012? In August 2012, this assembly postponed the application of the law for 1 March 2013, as it was not possible to provide conditions for the application of this law. There was an insufficient number of persons who passed a public record exam, which is the condition of the call for competition and the appointment of public notebooks, as well as for the establishment of a public register, which should adopt the necessary sublegal act. It is now again necessary to postpone the application of the Law on Public Registration until 1 March 2014, in order to obtain conditions for its application. With respect to the minister's explanation that not enough motivated lawyers to pass this exam and become public notebooks, the question arises again – are the realistic estimates that this term will be fulfilled as of 1 March 2014, if it is taken into account that in the previous period, and it is almost two years, it has barely passed 55 people, which means slightly more than 50%? We expect that in the next period, over a year, there will be conditions for these 100 public notebooks to compete. But again, the question arises - will they meet other conditions to be appointed public notebooks? It is good that this law, the provision of Article 16, provides that the public notebook has a place of residence in the municipality or city, which, by decision on its appointment, is designated for its seat. This raises another question as a problem – what about smaller environments that will probably not have opportunities and people who will compete, or pass these exams? Change in Art. 82nd and 83rd. The Law on Public Records rules, which is good, has been thrown out where only business incompetent persons have been specified, so these contracts apply to all persons who will be certified by those notebooks. The amendment of Article 146, where the committee of inquiry is reduced to five members, is good because it is odd and that member implies that the commission will interrogate candidates throughout the assembly, but that does not mean in the second part where the minister has the opportunity to appoint more commissions. It is literally said -- it also provides for the possibility that the minister can educate more committees, which does not mean that he will educate them if there is no need, as it implies that he will be educated only if necessary, in case more candidates are reported to pass this exam. It seems to me that so far this commission has not had much to do, so the minister is only given the opportunity to educate more commissions depending on the need. Of course, this law will relieve courts and thus speed up the resolution of a large number of citizens' problems and issues. The PUPS parliamentary group, following this debate, discussions in particular and the possible improvement of the law through amendments, will support this law in the voting day and will vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12706	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12707	I thank you, the chairman, with an apology for not being able to attend in the time that was scheduled and thank you for this. What has to be said is that, first of all, during the debate today, it was quite clear why there was a delay. We pointed to it both in the previous period and in August of the month. We talked about that there are certain problems in composing, obviously, and questions. I had a chance to talk to a large number of people who passed, not only to those who didn't pass this exam. Many have said that it was a harder test than any in law school and that there are many tricks questions, that there are a lot of pointless questions. It's something that's in the middle of here. Of course, the legislator and the minister should not deal specifically with these issues, but what he is dealing with is obviously satisfying some of the internal interests. We have new commissions today. For whom, when on the last deadline, shall I say, has 25 reported? Who will the great committees wait for? Apparently, interest is dropping. Here, now from the minister I'm trying to decrypt as far as the last time it checked in. I think it's 27. So 57? Thank you, Minister. Definitely less and less compared to the original 250 and something. The fact is, people have no money to pay for the application of this exam, and there's obviously a lot of problems in this area. What's a concrete proposal is that we wouldn't have a law on amending the law every six months, today we've talked about it on the Committee, it's a suggestion that the specialist studies that professors are doing right now, the professors who are members of the Committee at Law School are actually teachers at the Law School as you call them are actually the ones who form these groups and who are studying in specialist studies. It takes six months and that training is extremely adequate, especially now that it is adapted to the new law. I can understand that earlier generations could not have been adequately learned and adapted to the new law in specialist studies, but why would the legislator not overcome this problem by approving those who completed specialist studies for six months, as I said, why not allow them as well. It would automatically be a problem of that great 100 number that we obviously need to begin this process much easier to achieve. Here we are also talking about simply having problems with one attitude that is in Article 155. I am aware that today is not a topic, because the law on amending the law has limited only to two members, but I would still mention since in this open debate we can talk about that the DS does not want us to be irresponsible to one of these laws. We are all aware that, as you said, a pioneer enterprise, but yet we are drawing very clear attention that Article 155 of Section 2 of this Public Note Act states that if an investigation is opened against a public notary due to a criminal offence that is being prosecuted under official duty, which makes it unworthy to perform a public duty, his work automatically ceases, so his license is taken away. Our proposal is concrete to refer to the accused act. Since there are many interested or malicious sides, and we are aware that it is a very sensitive profession, we know that when someone is a public notary, and we have talked about how important it is both in the world and here, we are absolutely aware that there is a possibility that someone will deliberately initiate a certain procedure. We believe that the indictment act is something that needs to be relevant. These are just some examples of people talking about the subject absolutely, and this is something that needs to be used to fix the law in this part, I'm saying, that we don't have laws on amending the law every few months, these are some suggestions. There's definitely a problem in the organization around here. The fact that there will be more commissions already prejudges that some commissions will be easier to deal with and some harder. For example, I was a student myself until 2008, and we know that students always choose where they go easier and the question is whether criteria will be unique. Of course, that the law cannot determine such criteria now, but very openly we can talk about 57 being divided into more commissions now, which is actually just by calming down certain ambitions and as much cost as possible, as much revenue for teachers and people from the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12708	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12709	Honorable ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, for the Roma Party and for the SNS MPs at all, the court's treatment is not a private matter. If we are talking about someone who takes over certain powers of state authorities and courts one new institution, which is notables, then we cannot say that the position of public notebooks is the position of the whole and the institution is a private matter and that we are not interested in how they will live and what conditions they will have for work, because it is something that they personally need to solve and they will already somehow provide themselves with existence. That we are truly right that this is a fundamental matter of public interest for all of Serbia is speaking and a quote from one ambassador to the Republic of Serbia, and it is said about the ambassador of France who said - the conditions of employment of the notebooks must be impeccable. In the next quote, I say -- it is not enough to stress how important it is that citizens in that institution should have confidence. If said by someone from a key European country, the answer is very clear. We can't treat this institution irresponsiblely by saying -- they don't need to have enough work, they don't need to have certain opportunities to verify contracts, so if we do so too, to provide a hundred people or two hundred people who are going to be notaries tomorrow. No, I don't. We thus send a clear message to all citizens in Serbia, we send a clear message to the EU that Serbia is working seriously to create a responsible, legally regulated state. If we accept that we don't care how the notaries live just one step away from it is to return to what we looked at 10 years ago, which is that we don't care how the living judges live, that we don't care how the prosecutors live, that we don't care how any public office bearers live, and then the next step is to create the possibility that we can easily corrupt them, that we can easily buy them for some tiny handful of dinars and then create a non-serious state. Dear Ministers, I am experiencing these activities as an effort to create a serious state, to create a responsible state, to create a state that will guarantee investors who bring their money, as well as citizens of Serbia, who in those institutions in the public register are seeking guarantees for their property, seek guarantees for all other rights stemming from these opportunities and co-operation with them. I'd like to compare your efforts and the criticisms you're facing, and I'd compare it to one situation that's upon us today. We can make it relatively easy to pass the law and enter into the process of the work of public notebooks, and unless we have the prerequisites created within a month we come into the same situation as we have come to the situation that as regards milk, we have reduced the percentage of harmful elements, and today we are not in a situation to accompany it because we have not created conditions for this law to be implemented without creating conditions for those who have passed that law. Some days he's facing the fact that we don't know what to do or how to get out of this situation. In that sense, I don't understand when some criticise you that you don't have the political will to carry this out until the end, and on the other hand they criticise the fact that this solution offers several commissions. A few commissions are only a condition to get to that goal faster. I believe that those who look from their perspective and who would probably do something in that field to make it easier, somewhere harder, to observe your work, dear Minister. However, we at the SNS Parliament Club assure you deeply that if such things happen, we will indeed call on the responsibility of those bearers of functions and be assured that this is indeed going one good way to this day, which defines Serbia as a legally regulated country. But it's impossible to fix everything in seven to eight months. This is a clear direction that defines this ministry and that is what we welcome that you want to establish an institution, an institution that everyone will respect, which will be respected by citizens of Serbia, which will be respected by the international community and in which we will all have confidence. This is another step, another step on the road for Serbia to no longer be a state in which neither its citizens, nor the international community, and with this I would carry out today's presentation, with a message from the minister that it must endure and that citizens will be very clear messages from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12710	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am at the beginning to say that because I often correct grammatical errors, to say that I am not satisfied when a lawyer and professor of the Law on Public Records, or to amend the Law on Public Records, is called amendments to the law on public notebooks. I believe that this law treats greater activity than those covered by public notebooks, that it covers the whole activity, not only of the public notebooks, but also of the way they function, as they do, they open offices, etc. Also, I am not satisfied with foreign expressions, I am so dissatisfied, however, my colleague from Leposavic made an observation that Croatian expressions are being used here, and I don't mind that, but he does. Instead of "guarantee" it's "guarantee". I can expect someone to call in the morning "Zoroclicate" that we have the surrounding grasslands again, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12712	Mr. Risticevic, stick to the agenda theme, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12713	Excuse me, ma'am, but while you were presidencies, I was warned that writing and writing were not the same and that we must finally speak Serbian. So if those who warned me now made a similar mistake, don't have two criteria. I support their claim that we overestimated ourselves and that as MPs, it was not proposed by the Government, but as MPs, as I recall, asked to postpone the application of this law for six months because it was not passed the relevant rules, it did not pass the corresponding number of candidates for the public register, so that the law was not enforceable at that time. We were really wrong, because we didn't know what laws they were making, that they were almost inconclusive in practice, that there was no way to implement them, and therefore they were right that the six-month deadline was short to correct all their mistakes. I don't think it's a mistake to correct other people's mistakes. I think it's a mistake to repeat other people's mistakes and make some of their own that we've already seen in them. I've proposed an amendment to this law, and you'll see, for six months, for a number of reasons. First, we really need to remove all these shortcomings and we only had one commission, as I understand it, six members. The commission could have been questioned and this law changed, a number of committees with five members could be appointed, but exams were given to all five members of the commission. That wasn't the case until now, as far as I know. Of the six members of the commission, only three were present and only three were able to interrogate candidates and therefore the candidates complained that out of the four hundred candidates, it had passed every eight. They complained about that information, but on the other hand, it was to pass each one first. In a six-member commission, only three could be questioned, so that Nata Mesarovic, Dragor Hiber, Dragisa Slepcevic, could be examined by even the nearest blood relatives, and there was a 100 per cent transit point. So, there was no renewal, no problem passed, blood relatives, members of the nearest family, say, Nate Mesarovic, sister-in-law, passed out of booze, 100% pass. Also, in front of that commission, she passed the secretary of state out of the booze and there were no complaints, which means you could have passed if you had a proper number of relatives and relatives on the committee. As far as I know, pets didn't apply to that exam, and as they are, I believe that pets would pass that exam. This proposal allowed all five members of the commission to participate in the examination of candidates for public notaries and thus removed any possibility of possible nepotism and abuse of commission work, as far as I understand the law. This proposal thus enables territorial, even distribution of public notebooks, that they live in the territory, that they have a place in the territory where they perform their duties, activity, and I have suggested that this could be from a neighbouring municipality, since I had in mind Black Trev, White Palank, Babusnica, less municipalities, for which I do not know if they will have a quality candidate and candidate who has 600 euros to spend to run for public register. Speaking of expenses, what bothers me, and I would ask the minister to accompany me is the following fact, except for the costs necessary on the one hand for the candidate, on the other hand, we have astronomical incomes that are spoken of in public and are said to have been spent 180,000 euros in 2012 on the commission and the accompanying staff of the commission, on the secretaries, who have already participated in the survey. For my taste, it's too much. Speaking of this commission and these expenses, I ask the Minister of Justice, how the member of the commission, Nata Mesarovic, succeeded through the Ministry of Justice to replace one 60 square apartment for two better...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12714	Mr. Risticevic, I warn you twice to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12715	For what? Do you know that Nata Mesarovic was a member of the commission? Are you saying she didn't replace one apartment through the Department of Justice, ask the Minister of Justice for two, in elite locations? I'm talking about the commission's work, she was a member of that committee, and if you don't believe me, you check it out. For my taste, this is all too much for a century of poor people like this. In a hundred years, this kind of misery has not been remembered, at a time of such astronomical fees, such a reward, raises doubt about our judiciary, and you never let me finish, and it seems to me to wash out an unclean conscience, and it casts doubt on all the judgments that have been made, because it has performed another function, which I do not mention, because it is not in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12716	Mr. Risticevic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12717	I really don't know, you want me to rip out this microphone and get you to talk. I say, I'm not going to interfere with that second function, I'm only talking about the function of a member of the commission who questioned public records, and now I'm talking about the law on amendments to the Law on Public Records, the subject is basic law and the addition of the law, the subject is the commission, and you don't let me speak. I mean, in this misery when people go bare, naked, hungry, when children don't have a cup of milk, there's 180,000 euros and two apartments there's a lot, so whoever it is, whoever's a member of that commission, no matter how many relatives pass that exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12718	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12719	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, after a full day's debate, the time has come to slowly sum up the impressions, the results of the debate on the proposed law, the amendments to the Law on public notebooks, that is, notaries, as in the people's more famous term. Once the line is under way, we will conclude that the SNS will fully support the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration. Because of the citizens who are looking at this, to remind them, to see and that our coalition partners will support the law, and also, we have heard very polite and commendable comments on this proposed law by certain opposition parties, it is clear that this law will receive one broad support in parliament and thus contribute to the improvement of the state, i.e. further reform of the judiciary. What's important to emphasize because of the citizens who are looking at this is that this law, which speaks of the support the law has received, has arrived less than 20 amendments. When collected, many of these amendments are identical, so that a total of six or seven amendments are proposed, which the minister will carefully study and take care of further discussions. It is important for citizens to point out that SNS and its coalition partners fully support the introduction of a system of notaries, public notaries, that public notaries will do much to help better the lives of citizens, that they will reduce their costs when it comes to over-contracting or depositing such valuables, that to a large extent they will improve this quality of life in the sense that the notary office will be a cultural place with the lobby to sit down and wait and that in one cultural way everything that has to be done in pre-booked courts, without air conditioning, can be done in one non-human way. What's important is to tell the citizens at the end of this debate, that this law will cost nothing special to the citizens themselves, and let's not forget that passing exams, notary, is being paid precisely by candidates, let the minister correct me, I think that 60,000 dinars is what the candidates pay, correcting me minister, has reduced me to 50,000. So, in one word citizens won't pay anything out of their pockets, no new commission, this is one private job, notary business, private-public work, which will do the best candidates and people who pay out of their pockets and pass exams and later taxes and everything else that goes with it. What, here's a sublimation of the whole discussion for citizens who are now watching is, therefore, that this delay of one year of law enforcement is in no way the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. The Justice Ministry has done absolutely everything in its power to meet both European and our law conditions for the introduction of the Notary System. All sublegal acts previously brought by the Ministry of Justice and the former regime have been passed. All the regulations have been passed, all the rules that are necessary here, but the fact that only 55 candidates have passed a notary exam so far is simply under the law insufficient for the notary system to live. In order to form a notary chamber, we have to have at least 100 notes, it's already in the law. So just by setting up new commissions that will speed up the pass of the notary exam and allow candidates to come out more often and try more often, that is how the Justice Ministry will replace the current situation and the lack of notaries Serbia has. To conclude, this is a European law, a law entirely behind which the SNS and its coalition partners stand, and we see that some opposition representatives also praise this law, praise the efforts of the Ministry of Justice. This law will certainly be passed by a large majority of votes and will contribute both to Serbia's European path and to the better life of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12720	Thank you. The word is Srdjan Shain, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12721	I'd only ask you to explain, I think you've injured Article 109 and 108 when it comes to Mr. Risticevic's exposure. Explain to us, what was your point of view of the fact that he deserved a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12722	I'll explain. So, Article 108 regulates that I have to take care of the order at the session, and Article 109 about when the warning is made. A reminder to the People's Messenger is made when he does not speak about the subject of the agenda. After two warnings, Mr Risticevic did not speak on the subject of the agenda, and therefore, in accordance with article 109, I gave a warning. In the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12723	Mr. Cvian, you mentioned DS. (Vladimir Cvian, from the place: I did not. How? ) Yes, you mentioned when you listed how all parties support this law. You said it was, check, that the opposition people support it, that the law would be passed. So we don't support the law. We find it unnecessary. We believe that by proposing this law, without respecting our remarks of August of the month, you've gone a long way off the road. He's not in the position of further judicial reform, these are some other things you can't do, so I'm sorry, I had to react in the context of what's mentioned. Maybe the lapus was, but that's what you said, that was the basis for the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12724	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can also check in transcripts, because of citizens looking at this explicitly said that individual opposition MPs and individual opposition parties have said very good quality, and said that this is a quality law. I didn't, I'm absolutely sure, mentioning the word DS. Of course, I can't even figure out how many MP clubs from the DS Parliament Club have been created anymore. Maybe that's why I made a mistake. I'm really sorry, I don't know if there are two, five, six, 18 of you, but, well, we'll see it tomorrow, but I'm pretty sure the word DS didn't mention it, but I also said it, and I'm going to say it again, that very little amendment has arrived at this law, less than 20, that most of these amendments are identical, so, realistically, the whole law has arrived six or seven amendments, which also speaks of the quality of this law, or the quality of the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12726	The word has Mr. Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12727	That's because, within the entire law, you've made one cosmetic change in a single point compared to what we've brought. So let's see if you accept those amendments, let's say not you personally, but the minister, for example. The other thing, you said one thing that's very interesting, and that's how many democratic parties are there? There's only one DS and there's one group that's separated and that's normal. This has happened before in this congregation. You weren't very advanced back then, but ask your colleagues, they can tell you about it for hours, how they got away. So I don't think it's right that it's being displayed that way, and I have to act as a representative of the DS to say that it doesn't exist, that it's your structure and your beautiful desires that, unfortunately, it won't come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12728	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12729	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I understand Mr. Cvian perfectly, but once again to confirm in the voting day the URS parliamentary group will support this legal solution. I can only conclude that today we have had a high-quality and constructive discussion on the subject of amendments to the Law on Public Records, if we exclude those parts where individual debaters have explained who is to blame for why this law has not come into force to this day. I find it extremely irrelevant to all that awaits us in the coming period. It is good that we all agreed today that Serbia needs professional, quality, I would say impeccable public notebooks, notaries. All those arguments we heard today from Mr Selakovic, as reasons why the application of this law is delayed, these arguments are justified, but on the other hand, and our expectations for the next period are maximum and we expect that time will be spent in the right way and that on 1 March 2014, there will be a clean situation and that the Institute of Public Records will liven up. Not only will it come to life, but it will be part of the development of the entire legal system and will not be another part of some failed judicial reform from the previous period. So, in voting day, the URS parliamentary group will support this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12730	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12731	We have before us a law that DS won't be able to support because this law in its essence absolutely doesn't change anything, it's unnecessary, it's only brought in to extend the deadlines. He is the best legalization of the incompetence of this government, the Justice Department, to complete a job that was launched in six months. That's what the conditions were for. This law could have changed in another direction. It could also reduce the number of people, thus starting the process to be applied. However, as in many other matters, the Ministry of Justice and other ways of their political development were more important than simply applying and consulting in this regard what the opposition constructively suggests. I remind you that this law could have had full application and that it could have been better done that there was will, expertise, knowledge, desire at the Ministry of Justice, that it moved a little more seriously to work on this problem. That was the first question we didn't have an answer to. The second was why in August you failed to respect our amendments to extend immediately by six months. That's when you said, "No way." You didn't want to accept it, and now you're coming back to us after an emergency procedure. By emergency procedure, I must repeat in a situation where the ruling majority is unable to provide a sufficient number of MPs at all. Unfortunately, this is a sad indicator of your list of priorities. We in this situation, of course, support the public notation as DS, if you will, have introduced it into the legal system and therefore, of course, support that initial law that we ourselves have passed and supported all of this to be done in August with the amendments. You said no. Now you come with one text to buy time. Buying time, Minister, in this situation just shows that you've been occupied by some other things. The problem with Serbian and DS citizens is that we don't see what it is. We still don't see what that is, Minister. So, you're going to have to do a little bit more, although we appreciate the fact that you've come to the Assembly a lot more times than your colleagues have, I have to admit it, but I'd like to ask you to influence the government that they are responding and that they are more responding to the MPs. It seems to me that you have to explain, first of all, to the citizens, not to us as DS, what you're doing specifically around the network of courts, what you're doing specifically about courts being equally effective, what you're doing with judges who have been returned linearly to work and all the other things that happened in the meantime, which I'm not going to mention because I'm going to get a warning. So that's a fact. I need to find a way in this intellectual gala to talk to you about what you're doing, and to make it impossible for me to be a member of the Parliament. Maybe it would be better if we had a more frequent chance to see each other and talk about justice. Therefore, the DS will seek a thematic session that I hope will be supported, since we have been disabled from asking current questions from your portfolio. It is impossible to do so in this congregation by the will of the people who conduct the sessions. So, it's a clean thing. We asked some questions we didn't get answers. The very fact that you're here and what we're talking about today's law and the changes that are cosmetic and the changes that concern the extension of deadlines shows that something is wrong with our judiciary. You're not good with a list of priorities. You didn't get deep enough into what you announced in the election campaign. It's a good thing you've solved things that concern the Supreme Court of Cassation. You've done well. I don't think there are citizens in Serbia today who are not appalled by your move, but that's still not the point. Maybe I'll get another warning. So, I'm just wondering if there's any real possibilities for you to do something to make this thing finally come alive or if you're going to come back for the third time and ask to extend the deadlines? I'm interested as a citizen and as a lawyer when will this thing start living in Serbia in the Serbian judiciary? When will Serbian citizens be able to have a quick, clear, unbiased court case? When? When will this network of courts be established? When we see all these announcements that will happen, that the announcements are not just what I got the notice today, and I can't say, that name is sacred in this assembly when Mrs. Kovac presides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12732	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, here we are, finally, once again to recapture today's debate. So we will have to agree with colleagues who have previously said that many things are really wrong in the Serbian judiciary, but I also see that citizens recognize that the Ministry of Justice and Minister Selakovic with their team are doing everything possible to make that situation that was inherited from the former regime as much as possible to make it better for the citizens to have a fairer judiciary and faster trial, and one day also notary as an institution that will help them, reduce costs, make their lives more pleasant and allow them to finish many jobs in one place for which they have to wait for rows in pretty bad conditions that rule in our courts. Therefore, the introduction of the notary system will, under this law proposed by the Ministry of Justice, start its work and its life on 1 March 2014. By then, a sufficient number of candidates will have passed the Notary exam. We have to explain to the citizens that so far only 55 candidates have passed a notary exam because there was only one committee to pass a notary exam, because it was enough for two, three members to get the flu, and here is the flu season and there is no exams automatically. The proposed law will allow the Ministry of Justice to establish new commissions. These commissions, we repeat, will not cost the citizens. Those who want to be notaries pay their own exams, pay their own taxes later. In any case, it is a good solution for Serbia. In one word, in voting day, of course, this law will be supported. We fully appreciate the efforts of the Justice Department. We know that at this point, a whole series of other laws concern courts, which we know is inherited in one catastrophic state, that most cities and large cities in Serbia do not have a court. I'm sure it'll be fixed. A large number of laws that the Justice Ministry is currently making are now under public debate. We have the opportunity to participate both as MPs and interested public and professional public and in discussions on the Law on Prosecution and Amendments of the Code of Criminal Procedure and a whole series of other laws that the Ministry of Justice is doing, and we see for ourselves that citizens know that they appreciate it. When the day comes for the vote, I repeat once again, the SNS, its coalition partners, and we see that some representatives of the opposition will certainly vote for the amendment of the Law on Public Logs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12734	Thank you. Does Minister Selakovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12735	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that today's debate was actually more constructive and better than the previous debates. I would be happy and happy both as a citizen of Serbia and as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that any future debate should be so. I'm obliged to refer to a few of the last words here that I would disagree with, and, of course, we're going to have a debate about the Law in particular, so I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity to react to that. It is stated, let's say, that this law doesn't change anything at all, which is not true. Whoever thinks this law can be implemented without his changes that are proposed here today, I'd like him to reveal to me what that law is to apply without any changes. Let's be correct, that's impossible. It is said that the Ministry of Justice and the state administration is looking for other stories and other ways of political development. You know, one who criticises should remember that the political current it represents was an opportunity to apply this law to give and my contribution, and I still haven't received an answer why since May 2011, when the Law was adopted in the National Assembly, until May 2012, no single test deadline has been held. So, for a full year, there hasn't been a single exam. Transferring responsibility to this Ministry of Justice and the State Administration that it is responsible that this law cannot be applied since 1 March 2013, as it has not been possible to apply since 1 September 2012, it does not really stand. There were several words about the members of the examination committee, whether we should have one or more committees in question. I've already explained that, and it would really be too much to talk about that often the maintenance of the test period depends on an individual who is physically not in a position to attend the exam. If these are health reasons, if these are the reasons for the absence from the country, I would really not talk about it. However, what I am obliged to take advantage of in front of Serbian citizens of the opportunity to mention is that it is very much in the eyes of how much to change by this ministry, what are the fees for respondents in the examination committees, which indeed were for Serb opportunities, which can be called the least rude. So, at the moment I took over as justice minister and state administration, a member of the examination committee received about 180 thousand dinars. The right to deposit was earned by the payment of 60,000 dinars. One test period has already been carried out and it was indeed not fair for those participating in the test period to cut those participations drastically, which was then reduced to 50,000 dinars, but were therefore more than fourfold reduced fees to interrogators. Just so it's known something's been done, if nothing's been done. Also, like I said, within six months. So, in five months, two test deadlines were conducted, and before that, we had a situation that within a year barely one test period was implemented. Of course, there's a third test period ready, but the problem is what I said. We have one or two members who are not in a position to attend exams, or the test period cannot be maintained. Then what's going on? That's one of the reasons we have to have a minimum of two, so more than one survey committee. There's something out there that I have to look back on behalf of the Ministry and on behalf of the Government. So, attention has been drawn to the ministry's lack of a list of priorities. I could also really believe that someone is convinced of what he said, that it's not about people who are extremely politically educated and very well informed. Those who are very well informed know that the Ministry of Justice and State Administration has started since the end of September 2012, organised through several working groups legislative work, so the work on writing drafts for amendments and supplementing certain essential judicial laws, some procedural laws and essential system laws, and that several times in public it has been announced that in March, MPs in the National Assembly will be asked to amend and supplement those laws. I think I've come out myself several times in public, saying that in early March of the month, the Venice Commission will give its opinion on these major changes and additions, and that after that opinion, we will meet in the National Assembly with these laws. Therefore, whoever welcomed my presence in the National Assembly, thank him for that, but in March of the month and how he can hope for my even greater presence here. I am glad that today I have been able to attend and work two Assembly Committees, namely the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. As far as I know, in my term of office from the previous four years, my distinguished predecessor found herself only once in the session of these committees, and my personal commitment and opinion that each minister should, as much as possible, despite the great obligations that each of us has, that he is in the National Assembly, speak to the MPs and I can say freely that those MPs, most of the strongest opposition parties, have given their constructive approach to this discussion at the session, and they have mostly performed constructively, and have spoken at the plenary session itself. I understand impatience. Impatience is the first feature of Serbia's citizens at the moment. Serbian citizens are the biggest victims of the negative consequences of the begun judicial reform. Someone put it out as a criticism, what if there's no public record? So what should a citizen do in Kursumlia now, because there is no court in Kursumlia? And Kursumlia is one almost a hundred townspeople in Serbia without a court. It's something that's worrying, which with trouble follows everyday life and attracts citizens into those almost a hundred towns where the court doesn't have. What do we do about the judges linearly returned to work? I can express my personal opinion, I can also state the opinion of someone who is a member of justice and state administration, but for someone who's a good lawyer, it's enough to sit down and read the Constitution and realize that it's a matter within the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice. Maybe people are used to being in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Justice Minister, from a previous period, but I am convinced that the answer to such a question will be an opportunity to give the High Judiciary advice. I don't know what you're trying to say by saying that there is no one who isn't appalled by our treatment of the Supreme Cassation Court. I don't know what he meant by that. In any case, you can talk to those I mentioned earlier, these are VSS members, in which tone and how the sessions are held, how the advice works. My opinion is and I am taking this opportunity to bring it out that during a longer period of time, the Council has not done as expected and as satisfactory as it was, but it is up to all of us to give our maximum to make it the best of it. Once again, the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Records are something that is not in itself alone, but with much greater activity by both the Government and the Ministry and many other factors, including all those who commit justice, and courts and lawyers, with much greater activity, these changes and additions can contribute to this pioneering venture in Serbia after so long beginning to live. Anyone who wants Serbia's citizens well I am confident they will try and make a contribution on their part. Why did so few people apply for exams? I've given you two reasons. One reason stands and should stand in the future, which is that the exam is difficult. The exam should be complex and difficult because the notary call is very complex, responsible and difficult. I've cited examples from the environment, from comparative law, everyone's speaking in favor of it. We have come into a situation and I hope that these situations will be even more in the future, that we do not have to make mistakes to learn from our mistakes. It's enough that when we're in the last thing in Europe and the last thing we do is we introduce a system to look at what was wrong in other countries when a public record system was introduced, we learn something from their mistakes, and we don't repeat it. It has been said that this endangers the freedom of entrepreneurship. Allow me, but the public notebooks aren't entrepreneurs. These are persons entrusted with an extremely responsible and important public authority. As such, they cannot be undermined as entrepreneurs. What is our task in the coming period? It is to motivate the highest quality lawyers to apply for this exam. Should we have gone to the variant to reduce the number of people needed to form a public record chamber? I don't think so. I don't even think it's enough to get a hundred graduate lawyers who passed a public record exam tomorrow. It's not enough to name all those tables that are based on automation and public records. Thanks again for the quality of the debate. I'm sure every future will be even more quality. Citizens will self-evaluate at the moment when the public record service in Serbia is operating, when the level of legal certainty that has been missing chronically in Serbia for years, decades, in the last three years has been rapidly increased. When we get into a situation to start applying this system, to increase the level of legal certainty, then the citizens will understand what we've been discussing here. One more important thing for the citizens to know, and I have a duty to the MPs. Given an extremely large time vacuum that's been measured for decades. It's about seven decades away from this service in Serbia. What we have to work on is getting the citizens to know what public notebooks are. Good eminent public opinion research says that indeed not a significant percentage of Serbian citizens who know what public notary service is, who are public notebooks and what their job is. I tried to explain it to the citizens on one occasion today, and I'm going to say it now and I'm going to conclude this debate today. Why do we give public notebooks the authority to draw up a mandatory public record of immovable property traffic? Because unlike a court-certifier, who only takes a personal ID, passport or ID card from a citizen who closes a contract, the public notary is obliged to check each point, every point, every word or sentence in that contract. The public register is required, obliged to protect the legality of legal traffic in the system in which it operates. I've set an example of an apartment or a house, of the same apartment, of the same house, which in a short period of time for a week, of two, three or five days, sells to a few people, and we come up with a really big problem. Five paid for the same apartment, the seller took the money from all five, then got lost, and the apartment got no one, or got the one who first entered the property. If someone has already entered the property, the one who first entered the property, is the only one who can say – here, I have concluded a legally secure business. The public register is the one that needs to control for its client, for its citizen everything that is stated. Earlier in the debate, someone was talking about the monopoly. He says, if there are hundreds of thousands of citizens, then there are four public notebooks, and apparently four of them have a monopoly. This isn't about the monopoly. This is about responsibility. What responsibility does that public notebook have if he cheats on a citizen who came here to verify his contract in the form of a public record I.D.? The responsibility is, I'm sure, you'll see, and how great. And that's what environmental solutions tell us. Thanks again for the debate and I'll see you at the discussion in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-25-0.u12736	Thank you. I am concluding a principled review on the draft Law amending the Law on Public Registration. We move to the next item of the agendaThe Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, the Proposal for a decision to appoint the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the international parliamentary institutions, the Proposal for a Decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2 to 6 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've got a schedule of time in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Do the proposing, or representatives of the proposing, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we do not have candidates, I conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2 to 6 of the agenda. We continue our work on Wednesday 27th February at 12:30 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Nebojsa Stefanovic, Olgica Batic, Zlata Djeric and Konstantin Arsenovic. I'm now setting a break of one hour, given that we need to get opinions on amendments from the government. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am on the basis of a review of the Law on Changes of the Law on Public Registration in Details, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, that the sittings are attended by Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Ljiljana Blagojevic, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration, Mr Milisav Cogurić, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration and Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department for Normal Affairs and International Co-operation of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. [[After a break.]] We continue to work and move on to a review of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Public Registration in Details. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs of the people, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Marijan Risticevic, Srdjan Šin, Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic, Slobodan Jeremic, Nenad Konstantinović, Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Gordana Komić and Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Milica Radović, Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic and Olgica Batić. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move to the particulars of the search, I remind you that MP Srdjan Shain has written a written letter withdrawing the amendment to Article 1. Bills of Law, that MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov and Jovan Palalic made written amendments together to Article 6. It's a bill of law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is in agreement with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments that add new members of 1a and 1b to the new article 4a, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic, to article 6 with the correction submitted by the National MP Olgica Batic. According to Article 163(4), The rules of procedure of the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and shall not be voted upon. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
