ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14115	We continue with the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Vera Paunovic and Sasa Dujovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have attended today's session in addition to the representative Nikola Selaković, the Minister of Justice and the State Administration, as well as: Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration; the Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration; Goran Matic, Director of the Office of National Security and Protection of Secret Information; Biljana Pavlovic, Director of the Agency for Disposal of Property; Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs in the Justice Department of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue to work on a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11 of the agenda. According to the order of the people's MPs reported, the word has been made by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14116	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about the law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, the SPO was an active participant in the adoption of this law and what we thought was meant to move forward with this law is also the fight against corruption, because the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts mainly refers to organised crime or dominantly. Good results are achieved in the meantime, and all the measures that this law now prescribes are absolutely acceptable to us and we should nevertheless suggest that we look forward to the position of a minister who is slightly different from some of the original views, because all that is really well in the previous government has publicly praised us, and the SPO is not in love with any government in the previous period. What we showed yesterday, when voting on many laws, regardless of what parliamentary groups came from, the bill's proposals, we voted for all the solutions leading to normalisation of relations within the state. We were not pleased with the fact that many parliamentary groups did not vote for many good bill proposals because they came from some other parliamentary groups. I think that from these trenches, political acuity, we really need to get out, because Serbian citizens expect us to give concrete solutions. As far as the Criminal Procedure Act is concerned, we, when a provision has been passed that restricts the right to represent lawyers and lawyers, have indicated that it is discrimination, that it is an unsustainable provision and that it is a sure consequence of participation in the working group legal lobby. It's a good thing it changes, as is being arranged after a first degree sentence. The law that is certainly most interesting for us is the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent, commit crimes against half-freedom towards minors. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS believe that indeed so far all the legal solutions and court rulings have been handled by the perpetrators of these crimes and have been directed against the victims. In the shortest of our attitudes are the following, and we won't give up on them, we'll fight that there is no obsolescence of these crimes, which is the unanimous position of the Committee on the Rights of the Children whose member I am. Then, to minimise criminal sanctions for paedophiles, that the state and all its institutions in the fruit, with the prevention of repression and education, lead to an organized fight against this, above all, highly dangerous disease. We advocate chemical castration for multiple returnees, and regardless of what this law is called Maria's law, we must not forget, with all due respect for all the victims, any girl who was raped three years ago and who, besides being raped, has also lost her life. What SPO and DHSS think, and what sociologists say is that in the world there is a life sentence, chemical castration, location, registration of paedophiles, etc., they are one of the popular measures to contain pedophilia. That the situation in Serbia is drastically different. That our society is quite closed and unprepared to publicly stamp deviations and its appearances, especially in undeveloped areas. We are absolutely aware that this was the result of an inert after leaving totalitarian regimes when all the deviating phenomena were disguised, because we were supposed to present ourselves as a society of happy, just and equal people in which there are no deviating phenomena. Of course, this will all be very difficult to implement with parallel anticampion going on a regular basis on the media with a national frequency that promotes shows such as "The Moment of Truth", "Farme", "The Big Brother" etc. And I'm especially thinking about "The Moment of Truth" where someone's saying that they're very happy because they're with a member of their family where they're promoting incests and where they're bringing in various psychiatric cases, which instead of being in healing institutions, they promote everything that normal society has to fight against. Of course, while we belong to the Christian parties and parties based on Christ’s teaching, we must point out that many in the church, referring to Christ, have just strayed from the way of Christ and that many have strayed, as far as paedophiles are concerned, but that the society’s response has been largely, and with great understanding it has referred to church dignitaries who have gone this way through deviation, and what clinical psychologists say and what this society must be aware of, that pedophile, primarily disease, that pedophilians were mostly themselves in the early youth victim of some sexual violence or abuse and that they cannot establish deep and mature relations with adult partners, so for the objects of their sexual interest choose children. Therefore, I know that the biggest debate will certainly be held on chemical castration, but we do not propose chemical castration for benign cases and for the first case of pedophilia. In the case of returnees, it is certain that many countries have applied this and it is certain that it has produced good results and we, although we belong to the Christian parties, belong also to right-wing parties seeking order and respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14117	The word has the People's Messenger Svetislav Bulajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14118	Dear President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry and dear colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased to note, since I listened to last night's debate until the very end, a united search, did not interfere with the fact that the most significant bill in this set of laws, a law we all call "Maria's Law" and it is very good that the information that the respected minister in his exposé pointed out, confirmed what the public wants and demanded in support of this law, which is a more complete criminal protection of minors who are exposed to the delinquents against their full freedom. It is also good that the minister reminded the public that this bill was part of and the consequence of the obligation our country made by accepting the relevant Council of Europe Convention, and it is very important that the vast majority of the authorised representatives of the MPs yesterday and apostrophe, that this bill, which we all call "Maria's Law", should not remain just a memory of one tragic sacrifice, little girl Maria, but must become a lasting reminder which will become more permanent in this sense, if this is the law that will last called the victim's name, especially one girl, and which will become so much sooner an integral part of the Criminal Code, so I refer you to you in that sense. What in these circumstances can be discouraging is that we all heard yesterday at the very beginning of the principled search and that people did not comment, and what it was like to first look at the support of a certain solution to criminal justice policy, when it comes to this law, and in fact it was given a form of moral sermon. I do not consider myself personally called in this regard, when a certain criminal-law solution is in question and which is mentioned just before by the previous speaker, I do not consider that there is any right for anyone to take away anyone's right to the opposite opinions, let alone an argument of the opposite opinion. It is a matter of general education and culture, especially of an educated lawyer, to learn about the history and development of criminal law, the way in which certain criminal acts are incriminating, and in particular the way in which one rises and solidified criminal justice policy occurs. So, in order to take a different look at criminal solutions in general, it should mean taking someone's right to speak, and let alone debate, especially moral law, that's something I had to react to. An analogy in criminal law matter if we had managed the same logic in history, the abolitionists would never have succeeded and most of the legal systems in the world would still have a death sentence. I used it as a right to comment on what was heard in the debate yesterday. In showing my full support, the personal and the LDP MP's club to which I belong to "Maria's Law", I also hope that we will welcome the majority, i.e. support most of the announced amendments to the bill, in order to further improve the solution, and especially that solution that we are particularly in favour of, and this is a question of permanent indemnity of the sexual delinquent towards minors. As far as the other points of the united debate are concerned, I cannot say much more than we have had on previous occasions and to exchange, as comments with all understanding of your need to promote the strategy that you are announcing and a particularly action plan that will implement this strategy in the future, but I must conclude that we are back on the field of intensive work on partial solutions, not on systematic changes to the law, and even in the case of this great law of confiscation of property came from a criminal act, because about the recognition of the Minister himself, half of the text of the law contains a series of identical provisions, directly preceding law, and whether it will thus remove the ugly sides which, in the application of this law, remain to be seen. What is particularly significant, I don't think there is any guarantee that this way of changing the law will strengthen the good side as the minister noticed in his exposé, because I remind you, when it comes to the new, as the minister called them, pioneer laws, which show certain shifts in the regulation of such delicate matter, this way of frequent changes of law interferes with the possibility of uniform court practice, which is the assumption of a stable and coherent legal order, especially in such a delicate matter as criminal-law. At the very end, I wanted to say, when it comes to judicial matter, that dealing with this matter must be moved from partial to systematic resolution, to improving the legislative framework, that this is also in those proposals for which LDP does not have any objections, and even in that part when intervened in Criminal Law and when it is eliminated that restricting constitutional rights to the defender, by equating the rights of lawyers to trainees and enabling them to gain the necessary professional experience directly from the very beginning of their working life. With my personal appreciation, and engagement, given that I am mostly in the profession of education, I support the efforts of young people to gain experience as soon as possible, and it seems that, when you look at the whole of the proposed solutions, in this bill, we cannot really call such an action another to cosmetic, partial, so I hope that you will change that manner in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14119	Mr. Chikiriz, you signed up for the replica, for Mrs. Bulajic's exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14120	Since I'm directly mentioned in my exposé, what's defeating for our society, it's that there's no statistics on what we're talking about right now, about our criminal policy, I think a lot of what the minister himself said, and we're totally in agreement, it's really mild and whatever we've lifted the death penalty according to our criminal law, and Brayvik's mass murderer would get maximum 40 years in prison and any potential killer who would kill, so hypothetically, millions of people and two million people would get maximum 40 years in prison, which we'll all agree, is not in the spirit of what deserves criminal sanctions. According to current solutions, the maximum punishment for paedophiles that commit rape, which has consequences and the death of a child is 18 years, which we will agree is not an adequate punishment, but in much more orderly states of the United States, no death penalty has yet been abolished and discussions are being conducted with many arguments for and against. All those who call for human rights should always have human rights before the eyes of the victims. We can't just look at the human rights of suspects or perpetrators of criminal acts, because I've talked to many human rights activists and when you ask the question – if one of your three-year-olds raped and for the consequences of rape produced by the death of a child, what would your reaction be? Would you then appeal to the human rights of the victim? Do you know what kind of answer you get most often? I would judge it myself. So we can't have two arches when it comes to events that don't concern you personally, and others, when a deep event... (President: Time, Mr. Chikiriz. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14121	The word has Mrs. Bulajic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14122	Just for a little while, I'm not going into a big debate. I have made an observation not from a human rights aspect, but from the aspect of the right to a different opinion, therefore, of a constitutional right that is different in its kind, of criminal and legal policies, of mildness or rigor, of which we can debate, of which it is debated. I just referred to the necessity to allow alternative opinions, to face opinions, to debates, and to find a better solution in such debate, to have no other kind of ambition, and especially not of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14123	Thank you. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the respected public of Serbia, today we have five laws in the domain of the judiciary, but we are certainly most interested in the public of Serbia and are most interested in the adoption of so-called. "Maria's Law," precisely because it came from an unkind event and an event that touched us as a society and showed us at the speed that we reacted that our consciousness and conscience were still present. I thank Mr. Minister for saying first of all that the law was passed in the past government, so right after the event, that society and the state acted at the right time, and that's encouragement for all of us. Of course, this broad front of support that this law has, Mr. Secretary, gives a great compliment on the courage that the law is ahead of us and gives it a great obligation to enforce the law. We all have an opinion about this law, about the mildness of punishment, about this phenomenon that we should stand up to as a society. I'd just like to remind you that there's another phenomenon that we're probably going to have to talk about in this way, legitimately, so that's the phenomenon of child abuse. It is also present in our society, not only the phenomenon of pedophilia, but the abuse of children by parents, guardians and those whom they are directly trusted or are theirs. So it's a physical punishment for children who often have a fatal outcome. We know we've had cases like this in the immediate past. That's what we have to deal with because it's our everyday life. Our country needs to be a safe place where we will live and where we will raise our children, because that is our future. I would just remind you of something that Bora Pekic once said: "There is a difference between law and justice that often depends on human life. It is not that the right is often wrong, and justice is always right, but that the right is always only human, and justice is something above, something that is even divine." This need for justice always and in all things is the need of all of us, and therefore we constantly promote rights. In time, after this unkind event, the father of Marija Jovanovic, which is why we are all particularly grateful to him as a society, has been able to overcome his personal pain in a way and in a proposal for a legislative solution. The integral text of that law he proposed stands on the Internet. In 19 points, clearly, very concretely, the ministry proposed how to deal with this phenomenon legislatively, how to mark it and sanction it in society, and there really isn't much difference in political attitudes, it's almost gone at all, because these are human attitudes. We only compromise on how punishment should be, and we are definitely all on the point that punishments must exist and we are not at all strict enough in those penalties. The phenomenon is here and we have to solve it. What is positive, especially in the law, is seen by another disease of everyday and modern society and is recognised in Article 2, it is a devastating impact of the Internet on children. To limit the use of the Internet, because very often children in modern times don't have that much family attention, the family is pressed by existential problems, they don't have time for children, and they think it's enough to provide them with a computer and that the computer often keeps them for them. The computer covers their time and often these internet networks are making traps for children. So, this phenomenon here is legally regulated. What we also think is a good solution, this is exactly the database that will be created, that such persons will be monitored, that such persons exist and are widely seen and their data available, that they will never again be free and not be citizens, to say, regardless of human rights, of the same order. You'll admit, it's a deviant phenomenon, it's a disease that needs long and constant treatment, with an uncertain end, very often I think it's incurable. Knowing the psychology of a person, I think that such forms of behavior can very rarely change, and therefore society must be strictly, uniquely and ready, mobilely, at any time at a time like this responds in a timely manner, in order not to be among those states that have to by the names of their countries to call their legal solutions. The second law, which also particularly challenges the attention of Serbian citizens at the moment, is the law on the confiscation of property arising from the crime. We've already passed in the previous assembly of this law. The minister explained that this new legal solution compared to the previous law, therefore, was not only approached by amendments and additions to the law, and we believe that this solution is also certainly progress, because Serbian citizens, impoverished Serbian citizens, are certainly very closely following what is happening to those who have riched enormously, disproportionately and unscrupulously in their immediate environment. It's a phenomenon we also have to brand and punish very strictly. We think this is a legal solution that is good in front of us. We were like the NS parliamentary group, submitted several amendments, but in the previous case when the law was before the MPs and then we reacted, and then we felt that the amount of millions and 500 thousand dinars was too high a threshold. We felt it should be put down to 500,000 dinars, because 500,000 dinars, Mr. Minister, are the annual salary of professors in Serbia. It's not a small amount that someone can illegally claim. It certainly needs what it takes to take him away. I certainly hope that all amendments and proposals, knowing your approach, will take a very careful look at and best adopt them. We believe that after this plenary session we will have in Serbia's legislative practice between these five laws, these two certainly very efficient and fast, because Serbian citizens in modern society no longer expect justice to be slow but accessible. We want swift and effective justice. Only swift and effective justice is really justice. All that must wait for another solution is no longer justice for the citizens. So, just in these two legal solutions ahead of us that we expect, really very quickly, their effect in everyday life, we think you will meet the expectations of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14125	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14126	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, as part of this united debate on the set of criminal laws, I will only abide by the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against half-freedom against minors. As has already been pointed out in the debate, sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children are widespread in an alarming range and every organized society must resist them most vigorously. In previous years in Serbia, much has been done to prevent and protect children from all forms of violence, especially sexual. That is why I see the adoption of this law in this context as another contribution to the legislative plan to prevent, above all, the possibility of the already sanctioned perpetrators of a crime against semi-freedom committed to minors being again perpetrators of the same crime. This law therefore provides for an entire set of measures that should prevent it. As I have already said, efforts to protect children's rights, especially to protect against any form of violence, including sexually, have been intensively made in Serbia in recent years. The institutional and legislative frameworks are constantly being upgraded. I will remind only of some documents adopted by governments after 2000, such as the National Action Plan for Children, the National Strategy for Prevention and Protection of Children against Violence and Action Plan for its Implementation, the National Action Plan for Combating Human trafficking. A series of laws has been passed. I only mention family law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Social Protection Act, which protects children from all forms of sexual exploitation. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight the importance and adoption of the general protocol for child protection against child abuse and neglect, which gives guidance and guidance to all service providers involved in children and family, so that they can work to protect children from abuse and neglect, and in accordance with their best interests. Unfortunately, it is known that sexual exploitation and child abuse are not only the phenomenon of some countries, that it is not only our reality, but the largest number of countries in the world and Europe. That is why the Council of Europe, as is known in October 2007, proposed in Spain a Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Exploitation. Serbia ratified the Convention in May 2010 and so we found ourselves among 19 Contracting States, and thus we took on very clear commitments in the application of this Convention. The convention clearly defines sexual exploitation and sexual exploitation and particularly deals with the prevention of violence, the protection of victims' children and the prosecution of perpetrators. Today we can say that when it comes to prevention, there is much more to be done. It is particularly important that professionals working with children in all sectors, from education, health, social protection, culture, sports, have the right knowledge and education to inform children first of all to protect themselves from sexual exploitation and violence. Public campaigns are also very important. They've been running in Serbia for the last few years. I especially stress this because some ministers in the current government are showing some kind of strange sight for what reasons, perhaps some short-term interests, and are negatively talking about public campaigns, which they aim at, like any public campaign, to draw public attention to some problem, to sensitize the public, to encourage the same public to support some important efforts of state and social action. I don't mean this subject, Minister. When it comes to protecting children from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, Serbia is involved in all the Council of Europe campaigns launched in September 2010. The Council of Europe included in its "Build Europe for Children and Children" programme the fight against sexual violence against children, in which the Convention and public campaigns are the main instruments of the fight. Camping aims to provide children, their families, service providers and society with knowledge and practical solutions to prevent, but also to report sexual violence against children, raising awareness of the real proportions of sexual violence against children. In addition to prevention, the Convention also deals with criminal prosecution of the perpetrators. In addition, it predicts that criminal prosecution continues even though the victim has withdrawn his statements. The convention stipulates that the ageing period of the prosecution begins from the age of the victim in order to give the child the opportunity to, when maturity and independence is acquired, without fear report the perpetrator, which is particularly important when the perpetrator is in relation to the authority and power towards the child's victim. The Convention foresees the state's measures and obligations to keep information on those persons, including the DNA profile, which has been convicted of all criminal acts established by the Convention. The measures applied against the perpetrators may also be the abolition of rights, for example, on social and all other privileges and assistance, the denial of the exercise of professional and volunteer activities with children, the deprivement of parental rights, etc. The Convention requires countries to be the rights and interests of the victims in all stages of the investigation and criminal proceedings in the first plan, in particular their privacy and security. The law that lies before us contains the largest number of recommendations set out in this Convention. Some measures are even more detailed. I expect that, in the near future, we should also refer to other recommendations contained in the Convention which are not contained in this draft law. Therefore, it is very clear that the existing legislation should continue to be upgraded in order for children to have full protection, and the perpetrators of the crimes against gender freedom against minors to be adequately sanctioned and adequately prevented from repeating these crimes. That is why I call on both the Government and the Parliament, as well as other competent services to work constantly to prevent and protect children from sexual exploitation and abuse. Namely, the data is still difficult and worrying. The Council of Europe has published data showing that sexual violence is exposed to one of five children. It's a complex, sensitive problem of frightening proportions. In this information, the Council of Europe estimates that 70-85% of victims know the perpetrator. They were also done in our research. I will mention only one thing, which was done by the Regional Institute for Social Protection in mid-2011, based on the five-year reports of the Centre for Social Labour, in 41 municipalities and the city on the territory of Vojvodina. What concerns the report is that in these five years, there has been an increase in the number of cases, i.e. the reporting of sexual violence against children, which can only be explained in a small part, by sensitizing the public to this difficult problem and by establishing a system of services, including the civil sector, with which cases can be reported. Only when it comes to social work centres, 56 cases of sexual violence were recorded in 2006, and 131 cases in 2010. Three types of crimes are dominated – illicit sexual acts, promise of child and promise of abuse of position. According to this study, in 90% of the cases, the perpetrator is a middle-aged male with primary education, most often a celebrity child, outside the family in 39% of the cases. The total number of cases follows as perpetrators father in 18% and stepdad in 12%. Victims are mostly girls aged 6-14 and then girls aged 15-18. What is particularly worrying is the significant increase in the number of girls victims aged six to fourteen in 2010. It is therefore very important to establish a system that will enable the identification of children who are at risk of sexual abuse or have suffered abuse and to ensure that there is a rapid and coordinated procedure to protect their child from further abuse. This recognition and appropriate intervention requires the co-operation of all experts and professionals from pre-school institutions, schools, social and health services and others. It is also important to ensure the rehabilitation of victims' children, as according to the survey mentioned, only 4% of victims' children are included in some rehabilitation programme under the social protection system, and only 4% in other systems' programmes. So, all the service systems are responsible for preventing and protecting children from sexual violence, and I am sure that by adopting the proposed law and measures that he provides for the perpetrators of the semi-freedom crime, according to minors, as MPs, we will also contribute to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14127	Thank you. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, for using the parliamentary time that belongs to the Social Democratic Party of Serbia to speak only of one of these four laws that we are conducting as a united debate, as my colleague Mirna Kosanovic, explained some other laws yesterday. I'm going to talk about this famous and famous "Maria's Law." It is good that we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and as MPs selected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia yesterday, I would say a real human face. It's a good thing we were unique by such an important, sensitive and specific law that is here today before us, and that's proof that even as a society, we have a chance to fight this great evil. I will perhaps talk about another aspect of this bill, which also has to do with amendments to criminal legislation, which should follow, as we heard from the Honorable Minister during this year 2013. In a series of rules, which preventatively and criminally protect the rights of the child, this proposal aims, which has been repeated by several of my distinguished colleagues, to make it impossible for children to do so again, which has been, unfortunately, cases. Violence against children, to be clear in the world, has been recorded as a widespread phenomenon. Abuse knows no bounds, it exists in all countries, in all cultures, in all religions. International conventions and domestic laws establish a system, as we can see, that will act preventively, or that, when such a crime occurs, will be able to initiate a quick and coordinated procedure to stop abuse and protect the child above all. At the very beginning of this exhibition, I would also read a few sentences from the authorial article of the Professional Staff Incest trauma center, Professor Ljiljana Bogovac and Dušica Popadić, which says that institutions whose children are entrusted with care and care and care, remind families in Serbia, as soon as it occurs under quotes – a bad secret begins the process of closing in themselves and at the very least the possibility of bringing this bad secret to the public, the obstacles are activated, because in the patriarchal societies it is insulted that a bad secret should be buried and it should be kept silent, so as not to violate so-called. the reputation of the house or family, and the perpetrator is usually an assistant, or employee even in an institution, yet, therefore, the head of the family. It's called an adult conspiracy. Adults keep themselves safe. It's a finished quote. We all need this opportunity to remember the famous case – Pahomia. What are we waiting for? That Pahomia volunteered to participate in a "farm" and confess or boast that he was doing sexual acts on minors. Why do adults keep quiet? Dear colleague Ljiljana Lučić gave some important information. I'd like to add some information that's really scary. On average, when it comes to Serbia, sexual violence starts over children in the eighth year. In 71% of cases, it is a multi-year sexual abuse, and on average sexual abuse lasted more than five years. In more than 80% of cases, the perpetrator is one of the family members, in half of the cases being the most tragic, it's the father and it's biological. Of the five children who have survived sexual violence, four are girls, nine years is the period from the beginning of sexual violence to the reporting. These are experiences from the data listed by Incest trauma center. Half had previously addressed state institutions before she came to the Incest trauma center. Only 5% of Serbian and Serbian citizens are willing to report sexual abuse of a child in a family they know. The longest sentence they've ever known is nine years, of course, it was a returnee. It should be recalled that 27 of the 47 member states signed a Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, a famous Lanzarot Convention. So why do adults keep silent when they have some knowledge or hunch that a child in a family is abused? Possible reasons, which would serve irresponsible citizens as an excuse, we know from stories, for years they knew about cases of neglect, but they kept quiet. These reasons are usually the following – don't get involved in other people's family matters, question of some personal security, I'll lose my job, collegality, there's no point in being a good man at work, doing his job securely or lack of will to break some of our personal comodity. These reasons, naked to not apply or cover up child abuse, are the reason for every man to be ashamed. It is only one example that shows how unregulated Serbia is by a civil society in which an individual would take responsibility to have a direct impact on decision-making. Although people's low awareness of the seriousness of sexual and any other trauma, Serbia has a group of civicly-oriented educated people who are very aware of the consequences that children and society have during adulthood from childhood trauma and who seek to bring their awareness closer daily to relevant institutions of society that are entrusted with care and ageing, schools and families. I would like to point out that these are NGOs, the Centre for the Rights of the Child, the Incest Trauma Center, the Children's Roma Centre, the Protector of the Citizens of the Republic of Serbia or the Victimological Society, and then the Council for the Rights of the Child by the Government and the Assembly Committee for the Rights of the Child. I would remind you that the Serbian Parliament is one of the few parliaments in Europe that has its own working body, i.e. the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, headed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It speaks enough of the importance and willingness of our society to deal with this great evil. The same authorities and organisations in the province and at the local level of administration are also employed in the management branches. I would also like to remind you of the proposals of the Citizens' Protector, which we expect will be in future amendments to the Criminal Code. Just once again a reminder for all of you - that the limitations of criminal prosecution for these crimes begin to run from the adulthood of the victim, in order to allow the initiation of proceedings when the victim strengthens and acquires confidence, that the age of minors when they are not considered to be mature to enter into sexual relations with the elderly from 14 to 18 years of age, to necessarily take a difficult situation in measuring the punishment that the perpetrator of such a criminal act has used the relationship of trust and authority towards the child, to tighten the criminal policy, so that this criminal act is completely excluded from the fine when children are 14 to 18 years old and to delete from the criminal code the possibility that these crimes are being prosecuted according to the proposal, because the interest of the state must be the repression and prevention of crime in this area. I would also warn of a serious lack of non-application of sanctions for not reporting this crime when known, as I said only 5% of citizens are willing to report sexual violence against the child. Violence and abuse as a topic must be in the school, teaching program, textbooks, and preventive training must be conducted according to the order of teachers, parents, children. It is also necessary that, in addition to physical and sexual abuse, attention be paid to all forms of psychological, emotional abuse that they discussed during yesterday's debate between my distinguished colleagues. The media play a significant role in raising social awareness in this problem, but they are mostly, unfortunately, at the initial sensation, and then moving on to some other events, which are being pursued by the day-to-day policy. Very rarely, such cases are followed by the media to the justice of the verdict. I agree that the duration of legal consequences and convictions should be permanent instead of 20 years. It is very important to ensure that all who work with children have never been convicted of this kind of crime. It is particularly important to keep records of perpetrators of these crimes, as cases have been recorded that the assistants or employees suspected or found out about executive sexual violence against children with whom they worked have passed from education to social education and vice versa, or have opened their own associations of citizens to work with children. Based on this information alone, even those who have not been critical of the seriousness of this problem can understand how important it is to bring special measures towards the perpetrators of these crimes and how important it is to establish a central register of special records of these crimes. Without records and exchanges of data within the state and between states, it is not possible to fight this evil and this honor. There is no doubt that we need this law, and we are united as rarely when, as I said, we all support it, but it is necessary that all the listed and perhaps some changes are implemented in the Criminal Code, in order to establish a solid and reliable child protection mechanism and ensure its proper growth. National MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia therefore support the adoption of this law, and as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, I will argue that the necessary amendments to the Criminal Code, proposed by the Citizens' Protector, and proposed by Incest Trauma Centre and other NGOs will be adopted by the end of 2013, when the provisions of the Criminal Code are re-changed and complemented. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14129	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from a set of laws that we are considering today, I will only make some of my observations on the bill of confiscation of property arising from the crime. By passing a law on the confiscation of property stemming from a criminal act in 2008, the Republic of Serbia has for the first time regulated an important area in its history that contributes to the adjudication of the consequences of the particularly serious and socially dangerous crimes committed, thus contributing to justice in criminal proceedings. It also ranks among the more developed countries that have such an institute in their criminal-law and criminal-processing practice for many years. The previous law contained solutions to which this law is based, but it largely discusses them in the direction of improving them, following the previous experience of the state authorities that applied the law and the problems they faced in practice. The law retains the organisation and jurisdiction of the national authorities implementing it in the form provided for in earlier law. The papers it introduces concern the procedure itself, which we consider particularly important and good, since the earlier provisions in force are significantly more detailed, more efficient in order to implement the law itself more effectively, but also to protect the rights of participants in the process, which should, at the very end of the line, be aimed at taking away the property resulting from the criminal act in a legally manner, within a relatively short period of time. As a significant newspaper, I would like to highlight the public prosecutor's mandate to issue a ban on the availability of property in case there is a risk that the owner will have it before the court decides on the application for a maximum of three months. Namely, on the basis of a request for temporary confiscation of property is decided by the court, and this measure is the measure of the prosecutor, which serves to prevent owners from depriving property, only temporary character. Therefore, both efficiency and urgency are achieved in the conduct of the proceedings, as the prosecutor must submit a request to the court within that time period, as well as the protection of the rights and interests of the owner of the property. However, the objection we can make to this provision is that in a certain part it is incomplete, given that the three months in which the public prosecutor has an obligation to apply to the court may be too long, given the purpose of its introduction. The decision by the public prosecutor on the ban on the availability of property should, without delay, be delivered to banks and other financial organisations containing deposited funds and securities of the owner's value. In that part, we intervened by submitting the amendment. Also, significant newspapers are the provision that the court must decide on a request for temporary confiscation of assets within eight days, and that the application can only be submitted for an asset whose value exceeds 1.500,000. This means that the authorities responsible for the conduct of this procedure undertake to initiate such proceedings exclusively when there is a particularly justified interest which justifies the purpose of their introduction. Also, the significant newspapers introduced by this law concern the possibility of reviewing the solution to the temporary confiscation of assets, as well as the possibility of replacing the measure of temporary confiscation of assets by prohibiting it from being available. When editing such sensitive matter in the law, as well as when the court applies the provisions of that law, it should always be kept in mind that it is measures of temporary character, which serve better to achieve the ultimate objective, which is criminal and legal protection of certain values and goods protected by the Constitution and the law. In that sense, such measures are limited only when there is a risk that the ultimate objective could not be achieved. In this respect, the earlier law did not contain provisions that allowed the court to reconsider whether there was still a reason for the temporary confiscation of the property, so in that case, if the prosecution did not apply for a permanent confiscation of the property or the court to refuse such a claim, in the extreme line of state to the owner of the property, which would be temporarily seized, it would owe a significantly higher amount of compensation. This is the solution to avoid such a thing. This line also includes newspapers with regard to the permanent confiscation of assets, which prescribes that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of assets is initiated after the judicial end of the criminal proceedings. Therefore, the property can only be permanently seized by the owner who, by a judicial verdict of the competent court, is sentenced to a criminal offence imposed on him. Taking into account the character of the process of confiscation of property, that it is a type of secondary association of criminal proceedings, with the one in charge of deciding on the criminal liability of a person, such a proposed solution is the most logical choice of authors of the law and in that sense is much better than the one so far. The provisions of the law so far provided for the possibility of parallel conduct of the proceedings, the one in charge and the one in charge of confiscation of the property, so that one person could be permanently taken away from the property, while at the same time being legally released from the charge of committing a criminal offence or that the charge would be legally rejected. In that case, the state would owe the person a huge amount of compensation for the damage and for the confiscation of the property. A solution like this is just making it impossible for it to happen. As it has already been pointed out, this law is a step forward from the present, as it retains its good solutions and significantly expands them and improves them in the most sensitive parts. The PUPS parliamentary group will therefore support it with corrections in those parts where we consider it necessary to elaborate further. Other laws in this set will also support the PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day, as we believe Serbia needs such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14130	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14131	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we have four laws on the agenda today. I certainly won't talk about all these laws, because some of them don't deserve to be said much, they represent technical compliance with other laws, or they represent some small changes that don't essentially change those laws. Thus, the Code of Criminal Procedure does not change significantly today and the law relating to state bodies, which are fighting organised crime and corruption, does not, in practice, change significantly but only agrees with some in the meantime. "Maria's Law," as we have pointed out, is practically identical to that of the government run by the DS. The Democratic Party will certainly support the law, because at the head of the team that was working the bill, was Slobodan Homen, MP of the DS, so that the DS is fully behind the law. He was now submitted by the government in the same text as was submitted by the previous government. We also have before us amendments to the law of confiscation of property. I have to admit it's good and I'm glad the SNS decided to back this bill and made, even, some suggestions to improve this law. Why do I say that? I say for the reason that in 2009, when the DS proposed this law and when it was adopted, the SNS did not want to vote in favour of the Excess of Assets Act. In 2009, you thought that this law should not be passed and that this law is not necessary, in 2013, you believe that the law is both good and even suggest that it be improved. I think it's a significant shift and a change in SNS policy. The law itself on the confiscation of property is important and represents the most important means in the fight against organised crime and corruption. Of course, it's not enough to pass the law and make changes to the law. It's a law that needs to be applied. It's a good thing that in the explanation that we got from the government, it says that this law, which the DS has passed, is good, that it has been well applied and that it has very good results in application, and even says that millions of assets have been temporarily taken away. I must remind the citizens that it is not more than millions of euros in assets, which have been taken away, but more than 350 million in assets of the euro that have been temporarily or permanently taken away from those suspected of committing crimes. In this way, we have shown determination in the fight against crime, organised crime and corruption. The results in the field were certainly the best, perhaps, when it comes to the previous government. What I don't understand – why did it cease to apply the Law on the Abuse of Assets? Why did the government then stop applying this law? If we have information that 350 million assets were seized at the time of the previous government, the question arises, you say the law is good, why don't you apply it? Is it temporarily taken away from someone in all these affairs that we've had the opportunity to see on TV and in all the procedures that are being conducted in the midst of the fight against corruption? My impression is that it's stopped by law enforcement. I'm asking the Resort Ministry and the competent authorities to state on this matter why is that? Does this mean that there are no more suspects who have committed crimes of organized crime and that they have property suspected of being illegally acquired? Is it possible that in all these affairs there is no property in the perpetrators and there is no need to take anything away from anyone temporarily? There is a certain improvement in this law and these improvements are welcome. I don't think it was necessary to pass a whole new law, especially if we have in mind that out of 84 members, 40 or 42 members are the same as they were in the previous law. I think it could only go with the change of certain members, which I agree should have been changed, and some of them have been changed in a good way. But I ask you to consider that it is not enough to pass the law, but it is necessary to apply the law. I have submitted one amendment, and we will discuss this in detail, which refers to the fact that this law should include those who committed the crime of terrorism. At the very least, we are committed to this by the Security Council Resolution, which requires that of all UN members. So, not only does it apply to those who finance terrorism, but also to the perpetrators of acts of terrorism themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14132	The word has Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14133	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although I truly appreciate and appreciate that our debates are in the National Assembly, especially when it comes to the laws of which the Ministry of Justice is proposing, that is, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the representative of the promoter of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. I also consider it necessary to inform all of you MPs, as well as to inform the general public in the Republic of Serbia, to respond to something that has already been mentioned here since yesterday. We have heard one interesting piece of information several times, which is that over the past three years, just over three years since the application of the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal part, property seized worth 350m euros. For the past eight months, as far as I'm at the head of the Department of Justice and the State Administration, I can say that the only time I've heard that number is the pre-election campaign of one of the parliamentary parties, where this instruction as one of the great results of that government. The data, which you can look for through the Public Information Trustee, is quite different. Not a single time since 2009 until several months ago has been made a list of assets seized under this law. A $350 million figure can and doesn't have to be true. She might be bigger, maybe smaller. When do we get the exact result? I can tell you that next to me and the Director of the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets, it was the first time a list of assets has been seized. Pre-examinations are under way because of what it is and how it's been done in the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets so far. I certainly support the thesis that it is not enough to pass the law, that the law must be applied. There are competent authorities for the application of this law. I trust our prosecutors, they are an independent authority and I am confident that they will continue to enforce this law as they have done so far. I'm just asking you not to go public with unverified information. For this reason, in my speech, when presenting these draft laws, but also in an explanation, it is considered to be worth several million. If we're going to take out a 350 million figure, would you please state what the 350 million is worth? Maybe that value is bigger than that number. There's a basis for saying something like that. Until we check, let's wait for the evaluation results. The list's been made. We're expecting an assessment. Once the estimate is done, we'll come up with a number of what the value of that property is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14134	National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14135	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I will allow myself today to talk only about one legislative proposal, a bill that I believe will for the first time be fully supported by parliament, and I expect all of my 250 and 249 colleagues to support it. This is a proposal for a law on special measures to prevent criminal acts against half-freedom against minors. As my colleague pointed out yesterday in her speech, it is difficult to talk about this law without emotion, especially when it is known that it is the result of a part of a crime committed according to a minor. I would not now repeat all those conventions, strategies and documents adopted by the Republic of Serbia when it comes to crimes against gender freedom towards minors, but would certainly stress that the safety of children is also the safety of our society and the survival of a society and therefore I expect full support when it comes to the adoption of this law. I would like to commend the continuity of this government and the ministry on this law. I would like to commend the fact that there is no politicisation of this topic, but that we have all realized that the adoption of this law is the answer of society to what we were unable to prevent, the answer to everything that has happened so far and also used this parliament to point out that this problem exists, although the data says that only 5% of those who suffer violence are willing to report it when we talk about minors. Of course, what happens in childhood leaves consequences for the rest of our lives and we are the ones who need to be sidetracked and how we deal with the causes that lead to crimes against half-freeness toward minors. Although these crimes have already been regulated by the Criminal Code, such as rape, the promise of an powerless person, etc., then, the exploitation of the computer network and communication by other technical means for the execution of semi-freedom against a minor, that is the aspect I would especially point at, because the border of use of the Internet in children and the Ministry of Information Technology, which existed, has been the project "click safely" and that is something that can, unfortunately, lead to rape and sexual abuse of minors. I would also like to increase the visibility of this problem and point out that it might be good to have special measures exist somewhere through this law to prohibit access or use of the Internet to those who have misused the technique, to also end up using a minor. Of course, I would like to commend the legal consequences of the conviction and that is one good point that is first introduced when these crimes are at stake. My personal opinion is that it shouldn't take 20 years, but to be permanent, because, in 80% of the cases, it's the returnees, when we talk about rapists and paedophiles. We have submitted an amendment to make it 40 years in the spirit of our Criminal Code. It's good to make a record to be kept. Of course, the question to what extent it should be warning is raised, it is good that employers should seek when dealing with children to confirm that these persons have not committed crimes. It is certainly good that we have a special protocol on the conduct of police officers in protecting minors from abuse and neglect, but I also ask the question – how much are all our institutions willing to co-operate, that there is one multi-sectoral co-operation, not only at the level of the Republic, but also at the local level? I would like to remind you of the importance of education and the very functioning of pedagogy when this problem is concerned, although this will move at least one millimeter of things for the better, although this will make us all deal with causes and prevent abuse of minors, then there is no reason why this law does not get support, both for me and for all my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14136	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14137	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today, in the context of this presentation, I will talk about two laws, a bill on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors and a bill on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. At first, I want to thank Mr. Slobodan Jovanovic, who is not with us today, but who, despite the great family tragedy he had, has gained the strength and courage to direct his energy to a noble, positive goal, to propose this law. I thank Mr. Free Home who presented his ideas. Thank you to other people who have participated in the creation of this law, but this is a good indicator and an example of how personal tragedy does not always have to trigger the instinctive desire for revenge, but can trigger noble efforts, that other individuals and other people in this country and other citizens in this country do not always experience what someone experienced as a personal tragedy and a very painful and unpleasant experience. Of course, we have all received an application from the Marija Jovanovic Foundation, and I call on you to respond positively to this request, that as much as it is in our ability to contribute to the work of this foundation, to do so by other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to provide through certain projects the possibility of giving the foundation a donation also to the competent ministries in accordance with the law, which applied for projects. I wouldn't say much about this law, I would focus more on the law on taking away property, but once again I thank Mr. Slobodan Home and Slobodan Jovanovic and all the people who worked on making this law, and I believe that the obligation of organized civilised society, especially societies such as ours, who are reunited with the increased aggressive campaign of organised crime, violent crime, is that these violent, most difficult forms of crime are energized, primarily through laws that are enforceable in practice. Of course, we have very little time, so I'd like to dedicate some of my exposure to the law of confiscation of property arising from the crime. In 2008, October of the month, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed the law both in principle and in detail. We were present at the time with some unkind scenes in parliament. One opposition party split up and was more focused on its internal conflicts and problems than on the essence of passing this law, but they are, I apologize. Representatives of the opposition at the time, and now the ruling majority, not only did they not vote for this bill, here are the stenographic notes. It's good to remember through history, how one law was born. At the time, you first strongly criticised the decision to form a Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, with the conclusion that it was devastating, harmful, bad, that it was just a bunch of directors and that it would not bring any good to Serbia and its citizens. After five years you've seen other eyes, and as it turns out, we don't blame you for that delay, but if 20 years ago you'd accepted a programme of the Democratic Party, principles, system of values, today we wouldn't have as a society, like the state of torment we face. But some are welcome in the first hour, some in the third, some in the fifth, ninth, 12th, but whenever they come welcome. It reminds me of those of our citizens who, when they enter the mall, go up those moving stairs, usually drive and put two hands on the side, that no one can get past them, although there are a lot of people behind them who would run up those stairs, no matter what they're moving. So do you. Only when you get to the top do you look back, see what damage you've done and then accept what you could have done when you were on the first step. But what worries me a lot more, which is the fact, not that you didn't vote for this law, then, and now that you're changing it, that's the whole new law you're proposing with a certain, in fact, change of that existing law, is that since you took over this law, it seems that it no longer applies. Let's accept Mr. Minister's suggestion, not to bid on property, but then not to mention a few million, because only nine million euros were taken into the money. So that's not exactly a couple of million. Let's not even make it 350 million, let it be done, let the new Ms. Director do along with her professional services, an analysis of the application of this law, and see how much these artistic paintings, apartments, locals are worth, how much help it is to the municipality of Trade and some other organisations, institutions, and to accept your suggestion that it may not be 350m euros, that it may be more or less, but then not be that there are several million euros. I would like the ruling majority to explain to me that there is no new seized property in such a great course of energy struggle against crime and corruption. I don't want to disturb the independence of the prosecutor's office, they're... (Nikola Selaković, from the city: Independence. )......................................................................................................... Autonomousness. I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an independent, I don't want to disturb these prosecutorial functions. These people are self-determining the criminal proceedings they're conducting. Every day, with such a crying voice, with up-to-date voices, at press conferences, what will be done in the fight against crime and corruption, dates, deadlines are announced. However, there is no effect in taking away property. Is it possible that the poorest layers of our society have done these serious crimes, or is it perhaps a fear of taking away the property they illegally acquired? It's not a shagging, that I'm watching you now, now take him, him, or any man who's been charged. It's just amazing to me that there's so much crime and corruption that you're using exclusively for political promotion without having any effect in taking away property. Of course, opinions on the previous law, which the current ruling majority did not vote for, and it strongly criticised him, trying to challenge him before the Constitutional Court, end precisely with the opinion of the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court says the law is an expression of the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to deal with the challenges of organised crime and crime that at the moment of the establishment of democratic institutions hit the very foundations of the state organisation and bearers of the highest political functions. I do not wish to interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court, I do not have that right, nor that freedom, but I am still underlining, people who had the courage in 2008, such as Mrs. Snezana Malovic, to strike with all force at organised violent crime. People such as Slobodan Homen should be respected, such as Miljko Radisavljevic, such as Sasa Vukadinovic, and should continue where the previous government stopped, when it comes to dealing with organised crime and corruption. Let's not read the list of property, know Serbia and know Serbia's citizens what it is and how much it is taken and who it is given to, although the reminder is sometimes the mother of success. It may need to be reminded of dates in today's history, because today is the day we organized the coup in 1941 or shot down that "invisible" plane during NATO aggression, but today was also a significant day in the parliamentary life of the Republic of Serbia. Since 1 March 2009, this law has been applied. Somehow, on this very day of this time, the effects of applying the law began to feel, because in practice, I say, it was very much applied. Of course, you've given a lot of reasons for amending this law. I have real understanding for some of the reasons why it is necessary to amend the law, not propose a whole new law with cosmetic changes. During the application of the law, practice was created to apply and regulate certain legal provisions regarding the preservation and management of property, which stem from the privatisation process, so that the property would not fail. It was necessary to decidently determine the responsibilities of the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets and the Privatisation Agency. Of course, I don't want to apostrophe the composition of a working group that's been doing changes to this law and who's been in this task force, but I think that when it comes to writing some law, you should be careful who the people who write the law are, they create, because most often they're the best, most educated, most moral people, but sometimes you should, I say, take care of who in those law-changing working groups is sitting around and making sure that maybe he wasn't responsible for some of the crimes himself. In the end, I must tell you that I am pleased that you have changed your opposition attitudes, opinion and New Serbia's parliamentary group, which has fiercely criticised this law, and the SNS parliamentary group, to realize that there is no fight against crime and corruption, but essentially, that the laws are passed and implemented and implemented. I'm glad you're voting for this bill now, since you suggested it. Never forget, that Serbia would be much better, more orderly and happy that you took steps at the start of your political career, not at the peak. You know, success is once a wonderful deodorant, the best deodorant. He neutralizes everything he can smell in someone's political past, but you make sure that the fact of that deodorant can be very short-lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14138	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Cvian, a replica, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at the time of the adoption of this law, I was working on his work, but when the final decisions appeared in the Assembly, I was very much against this law so that it wouldn't be just the opposition against it. Why was I against this law? Why did I criticise all the solutions adopted by the Ministry of Justice in the previous regime? Because it has just been constantly potential that property is being taken away for the benefit of citizens and that the property that has been taken away will be given to citizens for use, and from citizens, criminals have actually taken the money. What happened in practice? It happened that the property seized by various political ties or by the system let me give the scurvy, the sister-in-law, was assigned to various people, untransparently and in God knows what way. Let's just ask a question - by what criteria did the Ministry of Justice, in the former regime, put the house on Ivan Frank Street number 11, area 400 square meters, in Novi Sad government of the AP Vojvodina? I don't know why it was given to the government of the government of Vojvodina, by any standard. Why is the house in Ivan Frank 10, same there, in Novi Sad, the area of a thousand square meters, given to the government of the AP Vojvodina, and I don't know by what criteria? It's the same government of the AP Vojvodina that today's SNS supports. Why are the apartments in Novi Sad, 66 Branka Bajica Street, 53m square area and 5 National Heroes Street, 153m square area, given to the government of the AP Vojvodina and without any criteria? I'm very interested, of this allegedly seized property by criminals, why is the Mercedes "Brabus", black, mg 55, given for private use by certain individuals? The investigation is under way, so I don't want to comment here. Who gave the bentley, too, for private purposes, so that someone who used it crashed? That's why we were against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14140	I've got more people's deputies reported. I just need to establish the basis before I give my word. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: I was misread. You're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14141	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't know on what basis the property was given or not, but I do know that the University Children's Clinic in Tirsh was given for the use of houses on Živojina Lukovica Vajara Street No. 19/4, area 100 m2, which will be used for the needs of parents and children from the interior who have malignancies and are on treatment in Belgrade. We know the torments that people from Belgrade have when they treat their children from malignancies, when they come to Belgrade, where to settle. I don't know if it has any effect or no effect when the house, used by criminals, is given to the City Municipality of Starship, which will be given for the functioning of municipal services, when given to the Olympic Committee of Serbia, when given to children without adequate ageing, when the house and money are given to the Municipality of Trgovišče after the floods. I don't know all these effects, really, and I don't want to go in. Here is Mrs. Director, she will do in the coming period the purpose of spending this property, but I think it is much better that what has been taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because not only are citizens damaged, the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged, is returned in one way or another to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but to remain criminals. Your opposition to this law has resulted in the fact that by 2008 the assets had come out of the crimes remain criminals and waited for them to leave prison. Now I ask you, is it better... (President: Time. () Is it better to keep property to criminals or to be given to parents who have sick children, for very noble purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14142	Mr. Veselinovic, I've got you in the system, but I don't know what you're picking up on. No mention of your party, no mention of the parliamentary group, only the former regime is mentioned, but you cannot speak on behalf of the former regime. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: And who should defend the government of the AP Vojvodina? ) The government of the AP Vojvodina is not DS, regardless of what the DS is involved in. Mr. Milivojevic came forward and received the right to reply because he had previously spoken. Mr. Cvian was given on the basis of Mr. Milivojevic's repeated mention of the SNS, and thus Mr. Cvian, as an authorised representative of the SNS, could have been given the right to speak. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14143	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106 and Article 107. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly was hurt in words spoken by Mr. Cvian, because he made half-information and I would say false, bringing the public into serious error that the property taken from criminals was made available to the AP Vojvodina in, to God, some purposes that are not publicly known. The property was allocated to the government of the AP Vojvodina, so that it, as founder of the facility, could continue to be made available. Some of those locations you mentioned are used as parent homes for children suffering from severe illnesses, as well as houses in which mothers who are abused in the family are housed. So none of these houses, nor locations, are used by the government of the AP Vojvodina as, God forbid, a resistance or any other facility in which members of the Government of the AP Vojvodina rest, honourable MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14144	MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's obvious that the representatives of the former regime are misinformed information here, I'm going to give you some examples. It was mentioned just before that a house was given to the Olympic Committee of Serbia. I know because I am a member of Serbia's Olympic Committee arbitration, it is a house in Omladinska Street number 23, area 411 m2, in Belgrade, which was returned in the meantime to the Retracted Property Directorate, with an explanation – thank you, we don't need such a house, we don't need such ruins, we don't need it, it is taken from the Saric clan, but it is in catastrophic condition. I'm just saying this because obviously there's the wrong information available here. It's obvious that those who used to take away can no longer figure out who they gave it to, or why they gave it, or where, to whom, whose ugliness and daughter-in-law ended. I'm really interested, but it doesn't say in official documentation, it's not transparent -- who was given the house in Ladislav Demasa 6,300 m2, in Novi Sad? Now I repeat a question from a little while ago – who was given the "Bentley" which was subsequently broken? Mothers with children? Who was given the open question, we know, the case was in the media, who was given the Mercedes Brabus MG55 black, the sports model, the year 2009, who are we seeing on the street? Is that also given to mothers with children? Obviously, in earlier times, non-transparent property was taken, so that some could be taken with such a seized property. I remind citizens that in all procedures that have been suspended and suspended, the property that has been seized will have to return. Finally, I will take this opportunity to remind myself that the confiscation of property, temporarily or permanently, is decided by the court, the court is an independent body, not by the Ministry of Justice or by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14146	Mrs. Djeric, I have you in the system. On what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14147	Since Mr Milivojevic mentioned New Serbia, as a party that has changed its political relationship with the adoption of the Law on the Abuse of Assets, only to note, because of the public and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia – we have not changed our position and absolutely advocated that the property acquired by criminal acts, or crime, has to be seized and disposed of precisely by law which was passed in 2008 and this new law that we are now passing. What we were not in agreement with in 2008, when the law was passed, and we agree that the law should be passed and that, as I said, this property has to be taken away, is the height from which the confiscation of property obtained from the criminal act begins. So that's what New Serbia insists on. Whether or not we will have the ear of this minister and accept our amendments, we will see, but we will certainly respect the law that is passed. We really believe that the poor Serbia, in which only the number of crimes that some have been riched by, is a sum of 1.500,000 dinars compared to 500,000 dinars, as far as we are saying, is in fact too high a threshold. That's what we're still standing on. We continue to insist, we continue to support exactly the legal solution that property acquired by crime has to be taken away and that it should be managed transparently in the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens are damaged and it is not true that the Republic of Serbia's budget has been damaged. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is, in fact, the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The government is not a firm, the government does not produce funds, these are the funds of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who trust the government at their disposal. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have always been damaged and robbed, and we insist on that. We are still standing in that position, as a political party. So, New Serbia advocates that property stemmed from crimes has to be taken away and that is justice, as I said, fast and efficient, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect in action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14148	Thank you. Mr. Homen, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14149	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The subject is the general law on the confiscation of property, but here is the debate on the results of the work of the Directorate, which I don't think is the point of the agenda. In that sense, I really need to say something, in order for it to be clear, because unfortunately we, as the National Assembly, are not calling the government or the opposition, we are now able to possibly and something that is good for some of our debates to present to the citizens as very bad. I deeply believe, and I believe that the government will agree, that the law was good, was well applied, changed... (President: But please do not talk about this in the course of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, since during the infringement of the Rules of Procedure you can only talk about... ) I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, what's being said, and it wasn't the subject of the agenda Can I ask you to finish? [[President: Is spoken within the framework of the replica. Within the replica, it is possible.]] (President: But I can't let you talk about something that isn't the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) So Mr. Cvian, through his speech, injured the Rules of Procedure, and you did not point out that, speaking of the results, the way of sharing the property of the Directorate. I hope we agree on that. What was said to be given cars, directly about it, was that they were given to private persons, I just want to say one sentence to be known, which is that these cars are given to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever crashed or did what the MUP of the Republic of Serbia did, you should ask the old and current interior minister, not ask the opposition. Of course, I'll get back to you in more detail, but I'm asking you again not to allow the debate because we've gone far from the very proposal for the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14150	I don't think there was a injured member of the 106 you listed, because Mr. Cvian spoke of it in the course of the replica. So he did not speak as one of the speakers on the agenda point, but in the context of a replication of his name based on the name SNS, so I believe that the Rules of Procedure is not injured. Of course, if you insist, the National Assembly will plead. You don't insist? All right. The word is from Mr. Veselinović. On what grounds? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replication to Mr Cvian's presentation. ) On what basis? Mr. Cvian only asked a few questions, and this time he didn't even mention the former regime. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: I would like to ask him a question. You can't ask a question, it's not a session asking people's MPs questions. Mr. Milivoevich, on what basis are you answering? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: By the replica. Yes, you have the right to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14151	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, I didn't say that New Serbia has changed more significantly as a SNS attitude, but if you want me to remind you, and here I have a stenographic note of what you were saying in 2008... Veroljub Arsic, from the place: Come on. Since I hear, "Come on," here's to please you. So - I would ask a very important question here - why is there a Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets at all? It should all be placed in regular courts, through executive departments, and there is no reason to make and pile one such apparatus, to make a special directorate, to expose the population of Serbia to costs through the budget. That's what I'm talking about, budget and citizens. That's what Srdjan Spasojevic said, then and now a New Serbia MP. I apologize for mentioning him and he's not in the O.R. If you want me to answer to Mr. Cvian, where are the cars, whether the Rules of Procedure or the car or the driver are injured, I think you're talking to Mr. Dacic, that you've agreed on who's going to be Prime Minister. Is the government bicep, but ask Mr. Dacic, he's the interior minister, who drove the Bentley, how he crashed him, how did he get it? I am absolutely convinced that the current Directorate and that the previous Directorate is doing this job at the disposal of the property very well in accordance with the law. Bentley doesn't need mothers who have children who have malignancies, they need a lot more. It takes these mothers the compassion of the state, and we don't need kids dying a month before surgery because there's no money to send for surgery, and there's money for various whims. Don't ask these questions, because then you're talking about very messy relations within the ruling coalition. There's no cure, no interest that can put you together. These questions that you're referring to DS just a little bit rotate your head to the right and you'll see your current coalition partners, they know all the answers to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14152	The word is Mrs. Djeric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14153	I thank my colleague for just quoting what my colleague was saying back then, Srdjan Spasojevic. So you didn't dispute what I said, and that's just one in a series of quotes of what we represented as a political party, and we still represent the economic spending of budget funds. We are still against the establishment of a large number of directorates, agencies and anything else that burdens budget funds. We still believe that the government cannot be the biggest employer in Serbia, because the largest employer in Serbia must be the economy of Serbia in order for our budget to be rich and for the citizens of this Serbia to finally see through. I really thank you for quoting something that just comes in favor of us as a political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14154	The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14155	Thank you. Serbian citizens had the opportunity to hear what was done for children and children, so I will continue in the same direction, as I will talk about the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of crimes against half-freedom towards minors. Despite the oath that we as politicians and as adults, parents, we want to do everything to protect our children, citizens were able to hear part of what all MPs are willing to do, I must say that the legal framework for protecting children from sexual abuse is not good enough, nor is it protecting children on the one hand, nor is it punishing perpetrators on the other hand. It has been done a lot on prevention and on other parts of legislation, but actually the whole legal framework is still quite hollow and there is room for repair. Of course, this problem is not only Serbia, it is the problem of all countries in the world, the good work in Europe and the Council of Europe adopted the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse in 2007. It's so-called. The Lanzaro Convention. Immediately afterwards, he launched a campaign that was supposed to warn the public about this problem that is increasingly present in the world, which is the Five One campaign, which is also being conducted in the country. I ask the citizens and the MPs to be a little familiar with the problem. The statistics of the Council of Europe are such as to say that one of the five children, as this campaign is called, is sexually abused. Unfortunately, Serbia does not have adequate statistics as far as this is concerned. We're using the data that Incest trauma center did, which was picked up by Incest trauma center as official data. It would be good if the state really started out much more seriously with this problem to deal with, so that we had really the right information that we could have. Incest trauma data say one of the three children in Serbia has been sexually abused, and that would mean 30% of the population has been sexually abused. It seems to me that this information is very big, but I really don't want to comment on it, maybe it's true. So I'd like to open up some public debate and see what this is all about. Serbia ratified the Lanzaro Convention in May and Mrs Lucic spoke very much about it, but Serbia has not done much since 2010 to regulate what the standards of the Lanzaro Convention are. I can't say there were no attempts, there were attempts. In 2011 and 2012, the Ombudsman submitted his initiative to change the Criminal Law in that part, but apart from this initiative nothing particularly happened, it has not changed and the penalties are still such that they are really inadequate. It seems to me that every time a great tragedy occurs, as it happened in the case of little Maria, whose name bears this law, then the public gets up and the public's pressure on politicians is to pass the law. However, if we look at that for three years as a state, as a society, we are trying to pass one such law and this law was in the procedure in the Assembly in April of last year, it seems to me, and I am saying it on behalf of the DSS, that Serbia is really missing time to bring some things that would improve the situation in this area. I have to say that there is finally a bill before us and I would like to comment on a few solutions. The law prescribes supervision of the perpetrators of such acts after a sustained sentence and proposes, or initiates, the establishment of a registry of the perpetrators of this part. It's very important that this register exists. Under certain conditions, data from this register are used by other state authorities, used by institutions dealing with children, and here above all I think about schools, kindergartens, sports clubs, health homes and all other institutions. It seems to me that this kind of record is very important. It is very important for this reason that it would help many institutions to check whether these persons are on such a record and to prevent certain things, because statistics say that many perpetrators are just misusing their profession that allows them direct contact with children. Here I have to mention one problem that arises and is not directly related to this law, but it is directly related to this area, which is inadequate punishments that are found in Criminal Law. The penalty policy is such as to say, according to the "Incest trauma center", the others do not have, that the average prison sentence is one-and-a-half years. According to the Bureau of Statistics, the maximum sentence since 2008 to date is three years. Look, somebody's gonna get a year and a half or three years, and some kid's gonna stay with trauma for the rest of his life. The law also provides for fines in cases of illicit sexual activity even when victims are children of 14-18 years of age. It calls for the international conventions we've accepted, 14-18 years are also children. The younger ones, though, are not using fines, but this is really something to change. I must mention that one initiative launched by the Incest Trauma Center, and accepted by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, should also be found on the agenda of this assembly and I ask the president to find her here, and this is an initiative to end the limitations of criminal prosecution for the act of sexual abuse of children. There's one more thing I'm saying is that in different ways in the world, they fight the problems of paedophile and sexual exploitation and child abuse. In many laws, and I see in our law, Article 7, it is said that perpetrators must attend therapy. I have to say, these group treatments haven't produced any adequate results, but as a measure, maybe they can be accepted. In some other countries, voluntary chemical castration is allowed as one measure. I'm talking about Norway, Denmark, Spain and the UK. In some other countries, no consent is needed for chemical castration, such as in Poland or Russia. It seems to me, I am speaking on my own behalf, that the moment for Serbia to start talking openly about one of the measures to protect children, to open up the topic of chemical castration, because we seem to have to close this area to protect children. Of course, one way of fighting is one serious and very systematic social education. One of the ways is these campaigns we're joining, but here society really has to make a great effort to round up the security system, so we can say that we did what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14156	Let me just say for a moment, yes, of course, since we as a committee have made that decision, we will have a bill at the next session. I was just waiting for a technical agreement to give all the board members to sign it and I want to propose it as a committee, and since we all participate in the Committee, like all the representatives of all the political parties, I think that we will adopt it unanimously as a Assembly, I hope. The word is Mrs Jovana Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14157	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for this bill on special measures to prevent acts of crime against half-freedom against minors is the result of the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse since 2010. In this parliament, as is known, the previous government sent the bill to parliament. Since this is an extremely large social problem and an important topic, it is unacceptable for the government to send this bill to parliament for seven months. However, I would like to point out that we from the DS are extremely glad that this ruling majority has accepted a child protection policy, which we have advocated for years ago. The law provides for prevention, but also predicts that all perpetrators of these crimes, after serving a prison sentence, will be supervised by police and society. It will be important for every citizen of this country to feel safe and secure, especially when it comes to children. This act will prohibit the mitigation of fines below the minimum for the criminal offences mentioned, and those convicted will not be allowed parole, but will have to fully endure the prison sentence to which they are sentenced. The law will also bring not only some future perpetrators of these crimes, but also those convicted criminals up to 20 years ago. The essence of the law is to introduce preventive day-to-day control, and we believe that in this way and this solution, we will be able to prevent the recurrence of crimes against full freedoms. The law also provides for specific measures for convicts after a suspended prison sentence, such as mandatory reporting to the competent authority, the Criminal Penalty Authority, a ban on visiting places where minors are gathered, such as kindergartens and schools, and the mandatory visit of professional institutions and counselling centres. Also, they will have to inform the competent authorities and the Management of any movement, such as change of residence, residence, workplace or travel abroad. The law stipulates that the defendant will not be able to perform any public function and will also not be able to engage in any institution, firm or establishment where they could have any contact with children. These legal consequences will last 20 years after serving a prison sentence. The register of convicted, which we also talked about today, will be led by the Ministry of Justice, which should actually help the competent authorities of the environment in which they live to take care of their behaviour after they leave, because these faces are in the midst of the same crimes. For those who do not respect these measures, prison sentences are also provided for, and for all institutions that would potentially employ such persons, large fines are provided. The public remains bitter over this particular case, as well as all other crimes and crimes that have occurred in the past. The only thing we can do to alleviate this indignation is to, as a responsible state and society, act preventively so that these crimes never happen again and we control the potential returnees of these crimes, and the records record a critical number of returnees of these crimes. The only solution is to establish control over the persons who were the perpetrators of these serious crimes. Statistics say that these works, even in 70% of cases, make up persons who are actually returnees. It is necessary to introduce, in addition to the existing system of criminal sanctions, specific measures to prevent perpetrators of criminal acts from doing such acts in the future. It is of paramount importance to prevent the repetition of these acts, and this law is the solution to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14158	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14159	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have five legislative proposals ahead of us. They concern and refer to the area of justice. What I'm saying is, at the very beginning, I'm actually going to repeat what the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club said in the opening statement, the SPS MPs in the voting day will support all five legislative proposals. I will try a few sentences to state the reasons for the MP's position when it comes to all the proposed laws. First of all, when it comes to the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent crimes against gender freedom against minors, it is true that the adoption of this law, among other things, was the case, and the obligation stemming from the Council of Europe Convention, which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirmed, I think, in May 2010. But what I'm trying to say is that some things, not only about the areas of the judiciary, but other areas, other spheres of life in Serbia, we should do not because they stem from the obligation imposed on us by the Council of Europe Convention or the obligation that comes from European integration, some things simply in Serbia should be done for ourselves. In particular, when it comes to this law, we should adopt it for our children, because of all minor children in Serbia. The bottom line is actually, the legal framework for child protection is not good. On the contrary, and this is stated in the light of this legislative proposal, the number of crimes against semi-freedom committed against minors has been increased. So the existing legal framework isn't enough to protect children on one side, and on the other hand, on the most rigorous, but let's not be too rude, in the most pathetic way, to punish the perpetrators of these crimes. We really want to believe that the adoption of this bill will create legal assumptions for better protection of children against violence, and the public registry and supervision can be prevention, but you know what, for the most serious crimes, the most severe penalties should be imposed. Of course, it cannot and will not be solved by this legal proposal. Many convicts who have served their sentences are walking today, unfortunately, Serbia and there is absolutely no kind of control, and it was registered, as we could hear, and a large number of returnees because only up to a few years ago they were sentenced to minimum prison sentences, from two or three years ago. This legislative proposal actually needs to create mechanisms of checking, how an ex-convict behaves at large so that it can be controlled and whether this behavior leads to repetition, perhaps, of a crime. Of course, everything needs to be done to prevent a repeat of the work, and we believe that this will be achieved by this legal proposal. Very clearly, the measures to be implemented are defined. I don't want to speak individually about these measures, but I'm going to repeat both rapists and paedophiles must be sentenced to maximum prison time. As for the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime, the law already in force was passed in October 2008, its application began in March 2009. I'll agree with colleagues who were just having a discussion, that application has also given some positive results. It has affected the realization of one part of those main objectives, which were, in fact, the essence of the adoption of this legislative proposal. Of course, the minister said, through the four-year application of this law, those positive sides could be seen but those shortcomings could also be seen, i.e. certain problems. We're actually talking about it today through this bill. Of course, if it is necessary to remove some 60% of the provisions of the members, or a certain law, then it is logical that we go to the adoption of the new text of the law. In this regard, I would like to say that the reasons set out for the adoption of this legislative proposal are fully justified for us. Therefore, firstly in 2011 a new Criminal Procedure Act was adopted, 2009 and 2012 amended the Criminal Code and it is logical to carry out certain harmonisations. Then the procedure for temporary confiscation, has been arranged, and that has already been the case, by the provisions of Articles 23 to 37. The law. It is the very part of it that aims to eliminate those shortcomings and the perceived problems, which have arisen in practice. I don't want to talk about all these newspapers individually, but I'm going to say that we believe that the newspapers that are entered will contribute to greater efficiency in the process of temporary confiscation of property, but on the other hand, they are very important from the point of view of respect for human firsts. Also, it has already been said, one of the most significant newspapers is that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of property is launched only after the lawfulness of the criminal conviction. So, the point is not to hurt the presumption of innocence and to take away property from someone who is not legally convicted. We believe that this has not been the case in the past period of time, but we also believe that this situation is both very good and legally regulated. So, in addition to clearly defined higher powers, we believe that this law will allow both easier and more efficient work and directorships and units for financial investigations. So the fundamental goal that we wanted to achieve in 2008, when we adopted the legislative proposal, of course, is not to change, but they are trying to correct all of those perceived mistakes, so all of those possible ones are being removed, let's say, and the legal holes that can be used by lawyers convicted, and that seems to be precisely through better regulation of the taken away property and through, it has already been said, by increasing powers. So, the government's priority is clear and absolutely accurate, and I want to say it is a determined, continuous and successful fight against corruption and crime, and through this law, the government wants to send another clear message. The draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences was, in fact, the fact that it was already a matter of harmonising this law with amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which was adopted in 2012 and which was specified by a large number of crimes, but on the other hand and the alignment with the Law on the confidentiality of data in part relating to the official secret. In the end, a few sentences and a fourth law proposal. Namely, the new Code of Criminal Procedure was brought to me in September 2011, and it is no doubt that the adoption of a new Code of Criminal Procedure is one of the most important newspapers in the judicial reform process and criminal law in Serbia. The papers provided for by this Code were intended to include us in the order of countries which, in a modern manner, but in accordance with the legal order, resolve the issue of criminal-processing legal procedures and powers, i.e. the responsibility of participants in criminal proceedings. We, of course, support the objectives of procedural laws. This is one of the essential reasons why a successful reform of the judiciary is needed, and for who knows which time we will say that we need to talk openly about both the efficiency and the protection of people's rights in the process as well as the quality, because each of these segments can in a negative way affect the legal order in a bad way. Three basic reasons for the proposed amendments and additions to this law. Therefore, the first in the course of the application was observed that there is no provision relating to the determination of detention after the first-degree sentence and it is important to regulate this legal situation. The second reason, the obligation to have a special internship is lifted and all lawyers will be equal in this way, be equal, and since changes and additions of the Criminal Code were adopted at the end of 2012, it is important to intervene in the provisions of the procedural law relating to criminal acts for which specific evidence actions can also be determined. At the very end, I will repeat once again, the SPS Parliament Club, in the voting day, will support all legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14160	The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Homen, and then Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Cosic, first of all, I would like to give one general review of all the four draft laws that are in front of us today. In principle, I can say at the very beginning that these are not bad bill proposals and something, if amendments of MPs are adopted, they can also be good legal solutions. But before I go into an individual debate about each law, I want to say that, no matter how much we can agree that a large number of political parties will vote for these laws, that we as MPs are inclined to and when it comes to good things of general benefit to the building, to represent them in a completely wrong way. Certain institutes of this country, which have shown really great results in the fight against crime and corruption, and which we can say that they are in the general interest and in the well-being of citizens, are presented in the wrong way. In that sense, in the second part of the presentation, I will look a little bit at the questions left in the previous debate. I thought that this should not be a topic of the agenda, and that is why I have also advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but given that the President of the Assembly has made it clear that this is not an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I assume that I will also have the right to extend the discussion, not only about the legal texts, but also on the results of the work. All in all, I will start from the first, and this is the famous code of Mary, or law, an extremely important act, new in our legal system, which, of course, we will see the results of the application in the future and perhaps one day do some changes and amendments, I hope when it is successfully applied. This law is extremely important for several reasons. Unfortunately, our society has no clear awareness that rape and pedophilia are one of the most serious crimes. About our consciousness, usually murder represents something much worse. You end someone's life, and we often forget that someone who's been raped is either a child or a male or female person, however, the consequences of that act carry life and never forget, especially if we talk about children. Unfortunately, there have been cases of only a few years, so of course until the age of one, that these people live their whole lives and never forget, carry trauma to what happened. And in that sense, this law should be viewed primarily as prevention. There have been several discussions today on a stricter criminal policy that I can agree with, but that would be the subject of amending the criminal code and, of course, applying the courts of criminal policy why they are in charge, and not us. The essence of this law, I will repeat it once again is prevention, that is, the most important moment is that for the first time in our country, a clear list of rape registers will be made. And not only are they going to sign up, which will be easier for the police to work after, because if you go from there, which is exactly the assumption that the largest number of paedophiles and rapists are returned. So these are people who need to work here all the time, as soon as they get out of prison in a few months, they repeat that act. Often, simply, you as an ordinary man don't believe that someone's been on the loose for two months and has done it again and has gone back to 10 or 15 years in prison, or whatever the court says. In this sense, it will be far easier for the police to discover possible perpetrators of criminal acts, and what is most important will be far easier to prevent them. In particular, there are measures that cannot be employed by institutions with children, from having to report to state institutions every few weeks or a month. What's also important is that they can't leave the country before they report to the competent authority, because unfortunately, we were witnesses just two or three years ago that he was one horrible man, I don't know what I'd call him, who went all over the Balkans and raped him in Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, to be arrested at the end of the fifth or sixth rape, probably using the possibility of easier border crossing and complexity in co-operation between judicial authorities. I will personally support this law, I think it's good, I don't say it's perfect, we did it as a composition of the Justice Ministry and I'm extremely glad that it's proposed in a more or less modified form. I will now propose an amendment, which I hope Mr. Minister will agree with, is extremely important, something that, when we did it, we didn't put on, and I think it would really improve the quality of the law. In fact, as it is written, this law applies only to paedophiles and we come to an absurd situation and I will therefore suggest that it be extended to rape, in particular in attitude 1 and attitude 2. Why would I suggest that? It means that even classical rapists can't work with children, that we don't get into one absurd situation as a state, which is, if you rape a 17-year-old girl, and if she's 18 and a day old, these measures won't apply. I think it's good, I don't think it's going to increase important costs, because we're not talking about millions of rapists in our country, we're talking about a limited number of people, and when there's a debate in the amendments, I'm going to explain it a little bit more, but right now I'm calling on the minister to think about it, because I think it's basically a good amendment, because we can hardly defend the border on someone who rapes someone from 17 years of age having consequences, and someone with 18, 19, 19, or 20, everything, that there's not this kind of consequences, and I think it's gonna make it important to make it easier for the police to do their job. In that sense, it is extremely important, just one more sentence to say, because it is very important, and it is also important for our citizens' awareness of this issue. Unfortunately, there are far more rapes and pedophilia in our country than it is reported in competent authorities, often out of shame, in society, especially in small communities, in rural areas, girls cannot get married afterwards, suffer lasting consequences, and exactly the registry of all types of rapes will help to prevent such events. I think, if it means anything, that we need as a congregation to invite everyone who has been victims of this type of violence and to report it to the competent authorities, and that the competent authorities are making it the easiest way to carry out this procedure and to impose the most severe sanctions. In that sense, I will invite another National Assembly and all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this law. Other topics I don't want to talk about are amendments to the law on criminal proceedings and a particular part of the provisions concerning the conduct of special authorities, i.e. the prosecution of organised crime. In principle, I wouldn't have much to add here, professionally, legally speaking, this is a alignment with previously adopted laws, and that's something that's not disputed to support, I even think it has to be supported, because there's not much discussion about these issues. I have one suggestion here, that's what I was talking about last time we were making changes to the Criminal Code, and I think it's something about this law on the conduct of organs in the fight against organised crime, and that's the question of the term of abuse of official office. Meanwhile, from the previous debate to today, a group of countries to fight corruption has told us that out of 15 recommendations, 10 consider it fulfilled, and thanks to this assembly's vote to the Law on the financing of political activities that is fully in line with international standards, but said on five recommendations that they are not satisfactory, that they do not meet, because the definition of abuse of the official position should be defined in another way. We did it by amending the law a few months ago, but that's not enough and that's a clear recommendation for GREC. I would call on the Justice Department to do another analysis of our old bill, how we've done a change in the abuse of our official position, and to propose to the Assembly in some decent period, because I don't think we should get into a situation to get a negative opinion from the GREK, which is why the Council of Europe. On the other hand, we are once again witnessing that, as far as lawyers and actions and court practices are concerned, the changes we have made on the abuse of official office in many ways seem to be very similar, it does not meet European standards. I don't think it's too late, if we had a year, if I weren't wrong, what is the time limit to approach the amendments of the KZ and I call for it to be done, because that is the only way to fully bring the legislation into line, as other European countries have done. What's the third topic, it's the law on taking away property, which I'm going to talk about in a broader way, the changes in the law itself aren't controversial, there are things that aren't good, most of them are, and these are the things that I'm going to point out in the amendment, but what a few previous speakers said, I don't think the changes are that big, that it had to go to a new law, but I don't think that's essential. Whatever form the government defines itself as proposing a law to the National Assembly, as far as I'm concerned, we can discuss it, but I think it should be pointed out. The fact is that it is an extremely important law, a law that is revolutionary in our country, the law that has made the biggest move in the fight against organised crime and corruption. In that sense, I just want to say something in response to the results. Only in money, cash, 10 million euros have been taken away, and I'm now talking about the period when we were in power, I don't know what's been going on the last seven, eight or nine months since the election, but when it comes to the question of why 300 or 350 million euros are being talked about, there's no clear estimate of whether it's that much or 250, because there's a clear list of what's been taken away from the Directorate. Why there's no estimate, that's what I'm gonna say. The prosecution, and the courts, took away, among other things, what we measure, apartments, cars, and 18 companies on the basis of the court's decision and 34 companies and two agricultural cooperatives on the basis of the prosecution's orders, four hotels, etc. A recent analysis was made of what Saric's plan belonged to the land in Vojvodina? It was estimated to be 8% to 9% of the land in Vojvodina. Let's not talk about 8% or 9% of the land, which is taken away, worth a few million euros. It may not be worth anything, if these companies went bankrupt, so they made losses, but that's one real serious value, and I don't think the current ministry, and no one in the future will be able to determine the exact price for a simple reason, because the essence of money laundering and heat business was to take over companies, to be in debt, to buy money from other privatisations, or to launder money through them. In that sense, it means to take away the country, the country to return to the Republic of Serbia, but I think that in these businesses through the "of Shore" firm, above all, you can hardly ever determine what the real value is, because most of these mutual borrowings are fictitious borrowings. As for the issue of asset allocation, and I can tell you that everything that has been given for humanitarian purposes has been done by decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and very transparently clear. All vehicles given and not given to any natural person were given, I think 95% of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia and the prosecutors, in slightly smaller percentage of courts, and the vehicles spoken of today were given to the Ministry of Serbia. What did the MUP do, how he managed it, who broke it, it could be the subject of some investigative actions, but I mean first of all within the MUP? As far as I'm concerned, other of these, I think it's quite clear, and there, perhaps in the very end, I would like to warn Mr. Minister, that it's not his to tell us about the investigative actions, it's the police's job, possibly the prosecution, so some competent authorities are determining all of their own, but I think we all need to stop here and say, let the authorities do theirs, whether there was some abuse or not, someone can never claim for the big system that it wasn't, but in principle we all agree, that this is one of the best things that has been done in the fight against organised crime is just passing this law. Once again, at the very end, I welcome the changes, I think they're mostly good. I hope that our amendments will be adopted and that it may be one of the few opportunities for us all to support the text of this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14162	Thank you. The word has Maja Gojkovic, then Natasa Vukkovic
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Department of Justice, dear colleagues, here we have entered the second day of the debate over four laws of the so-called A judicial set of laws, as we like to say. I can conclude that, simply, this assembly of parliament can mark the Ministry of Justice, because almost every other, or third session is dedicated to the laws of the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction, which can speak either about the hyperactivity of this ministry, or about the catastrophic errors of the previous period, which should be corrected from session to session by amendments to the law, by proposing new laws, or by proposing and putting on the agenda of this Parliament, the laws that have long been in the drawer, which, regardless of good intentions, stood with the minister of justice and the minister of justice in the past assembly. Of course, we heard the views of the SNS parliamentary group by the authorised representative, Mr Cvian, and should not be repeated in detail, because surely all MPs in the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour. Few confusions include the views of MPs of opposition parties, who are standing up and speaking about certain laws and saying that they will now support them, yet on the list of speakers writes something different and every other speaker in the opposition from the former regime has indicated that they will vote - against this set of laws, which means that it brings not only to the public of Serbia, but also to other MPs. As an SNS MP, I express satisfaction and what is indeed a large number of MPs, regardless of political commitment, have taken part in the debate. I would like to point out that the colleagues have stepped up to say that a woman's parliamentary network was organised less than a month ago, for the first time in this House's history, and that one of the priorities was just to make an effort to pass these laws that are before us today, and I mean, of course, specifically, in the public-known "Maria's Law". I would avoid the word "glorious", as the previous speaker said, because it cannot be a glorious law, because it was proposed under very, very difficult circumstances and the motives of the promoters, which is a serious crime that took place on the territory of the city of Novi Sad, or in the Ledinci, two or three years ago. I think it happened in 2010. Of course, I welcome, this is just another state effort to fight pedophilia, which is as much present in Serbia as it is in the whole world and in Europe. Recently there were parliamentarians from the United Kingdom and we touched on the Committee on Foreign Policy to discuss these topics with them. They welcomed the passing of such a law. Of course, we shared both our experiences and their exchanges, because they have and are now engulfed with a great affair, by 20 years of hiding pedophile tendencies or by pedophilia of a famous person, or by a leader in Britain, who raped dozens and dozens of children or threatened them in full. They are minors, and they have encouraged us to endure in such criminal acts that there is no obsolescence, because it is now in Britain grown women and men, who are only now after the death of this famous British figure encouraged to seek justice, if, of course, there is no criminal conviction, prisons, at least that they can make some sort of compensation for all that they have suffered, for the reduced life activity, for the fear and pain under which they have lived for tens of years of violence against them. Of course, it should be repeated, that every speaker should repeat that this law and law-making was initiated by Slobodan Jovanovic, the father of a minor victim who was raped and killed in 2010 in Ledinci under terrible circumstances. Why is it important to repeat? Because if such a law had occurred before and such measures, as this law suggests, perhaps this crime would not have happened, because it is a rapist, a pedophile returner. In that sentence, I may have explained as much as it matters, as far as there is no place for politics, no place for ridicule, or even for this, that, just to gain prestige in the order of speakers, someone in the opposition was saying that it was against this law. Either you're against it or you're in, and you should have one political attitude, not because of the list of speakers that you're writing that you're against. It's a real shame. To the gentleman who told us what was going on in the previous term, who didn't all support one of these laws in the set of judicial laws ahead of us, I could read in order, including his name, that he pleaded against "Mary's Law." I'd like to ask my colleague not to throw it away, but to call if he thinks he's mentioned, or if he recognizes himself speaking, and the other one is doing it hidden from the public. So he's against "Maria's Law" and that should be said very loudly, like all MPs who have answered the word and are in opposition benches. We shouldn't be hypocritical, so let's just say that's not true, when it's true, here's a list in front of us. To go back specifically on the subject. Otherwise, in the world, such laws are passed when large cases occur and victims are exclusively children and minors. I want to say something that we didn't mention in the debate, that the first such law was created in California, again after a little girl called "Megan Law" and whose essence is actually to inform the public by the Internet and similar means of the perpetrators of these works on U.S. territory. You should think about it, I didn't see it made possible by this law, so the availability of information to everyone, not just to the professional public, to those who will deal with prevention, but to get to know everyone, and to know who is in our environment, maybe someone who has pedophilesic tendencies or is justly convicted of similar acts. So it's important that this law be passed because our criminal policy was almost catastrophic in that direction. The convictions of rapists and paedophiles ranged from criminal penalties, something catastrophic, very low some prison sentences from several months to one year. As we speak here and conduct this more or less serious debate, pedophiles and rapists are on the streets of Serbia because they served their sentences, went outside and still are not subject to any measures. The important thing is to get rich, vote and pass this law unanimously, to simply show the social community's position, and we are representatives of the social community in which we live and that in this we are unanimous to try, we are not going to destroy rapists and paedophiles, but to try to take a step forward and adopt such a law. In Serbia, unfortunately because of this criminal policy, a very large number of returnees have been registered, I say, due to small penalties. That's why all these measures that the law proposes are important, surveillance measures, travel bans are listed here as examples of schools and kindergartens. I think we should think in the direction of many other public places where a larger group of children are located. Of course, professional counselling and institutions, obligations, as colleague Homen said, notifications about the place of residence, residence, travel abroad because of our co-operation with countries in the world, so that they know who is coming to us and which of these convicted persons is located in another territory where they could do the same or similar work. To me, the great dilemma of these days is a stranger, is the fact that they will no longer be able to perform any public function, relations and media presence, in public reports? We have an abuse, we said in the UK, we shouldn't go that far, we have abuse today in our media. Today you can be a priestly person, and that's popular, to characterize as someone who may have pedophile tendencies or is a rapist, but we all hypocritically refrain from saying that there are estrate personalities that are praised by it. In one of the most watched reality shows these days, so says the television that broadcasts it, one of the esthetic personalities admitted to having pedophilesic tendencies and that he had, as he says, a relationship, which I am appalled at, with a 14-year-old girl. I didn't hear anyone react to that. The question is whether or not the prosecution responded to such a disastrous statement, not to say that the person was not removed from the media, so every day he has an ever-increasing chance and an opportunity to introduce us to his pedophile proclivities. It's something that scares me as a person and as a representative of the public. Yesterday, I simply led a conversation on Twitter with a number of people watching this session and watching the program. All are unique in the fact that the prosecution failed in this case and that the RRA and similar institutions failed because they did not remove such a person from the media. So, we can ban public office, but we don't forbid them to participate and tell us that they committed a crime in their lives. Criminologists say that the mental set of paedophiles is such that 70% of them return and returnees commit such and similar crimes. I suggest the Department of Justice consider amending the Act, which is coming to us, on chemical castration. We said that in Poland, Louisiana, Italy and France, they are considering this measure most seriously because of the increased number of criminal acts of pedophile and the introduction of a provoking measure. I don't know if there's a license for the police to do that. It refers to these crimes that appear via the Internet network. It's about child pornography. Very dangerous and very easy to spread such a type of pedophilia. The arrest was also in Novi Sad. We're constantly familiar with cases like that. What does provoking mean? Police are provoking potential perpetrators of such acts through the Messenger. They're scheduled for meetings, because they're willing to schedule underage meetings to commit this crime. I don't think we're allowed to do that yet, and the ministry has to seriously propose such measures -- the most effective drastic prison sentences for rapists and paedophiles, because so far I think only one perpetrator for four rapes committed in Belgrade's territory has received a prison sentence of 20 years. It seems to me that one person today has received such a drastic punishment - a six-month sentence. Now you compare how much they, regardless of their consciousness, are simply encouraged. Depreciation or not of this kind of crime? Like almost all women in the women's parliamentary network, I'm an advocate that there must be an unhappiness. We have practice in the UK. It's not the 18-year-old limit, so it counts for an ageing of 18, just because of everything that's going on -- because of the trauma you're experiencing, the condemnation of the environment, because of the economic opportunities in which some of the victims live with the perpetrator of such an act. You should consider that such acts cannot really become obsolete. It's a big part of the media, culture, everything. I'm the person who found out about the measures that are just being prescribed today by this law and which we're about to adopt. I learned from an extremely good film, although it's played, but it's very educational, I recommend that everyone look at it, it's called Slot, or in our Bagra translation with Richard Gira. It shows what kind of problems people have to deal with records and surveillance of rapists in a highly developed country like America and what dangerous minds these crimes are. Of course, I want the voice out of here that we agree that the reality of the bottom must not send such messages to the public. That's what children look at, and they think it's socially acceptable, that a sick man can tell us his sexual experiences with children. Of course, no matter how much you say you won't vote, that you're against "Maria's Law", at least that's what it says on this list that you applied to, I call on the opposition to vote, to change their minds and vote for the adoption of "Maria's Law," because it's a socially very useful piece you're going to do, regardless of what you're not in a position right now, but in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14164	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, for the MP freely interprets the legitimate right of Article 96. Rules of Procedure, that Members of the Parliaments collectively declare whether they are in favour or against the agenda. If you had used your business right to be in the O.R. regularly during today's session, Mrs. Gojkovic, you would have heard that DS would vote for "Maria's Law". You've stuck three more laws with "Maria's Law" and you can't get into our consciousness without being in the O.R. and you know which of those three laws we're going to vote for and which ones we're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14166	Mr. Milivoevich, you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Don't talk about the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14167	Yeah, I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated because the DS is imputed, although we have repeatedly told all those involved in the discussion that we will vote for "Maria's Law", that we will not vote for this law. Some do not mind, however, that the heads of his parliamentary group and authorised proposings do not give a statement whether they will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14168	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. From what I understand, Mrs. Maya has made her point of view, and she has not, in that sense, severely injured the Rules of Procedure, as you have understood. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic picked up the phone. On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14169	My colleague mentioned me. I want to answer, explain a little bit to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14170	You have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14171	I absolutely have the right to answer because my colleague made a false assumption that I wasn't in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14172	Mrs. Gojkovic, you do not have the right to reply because Mr. Milivojevic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you do not have the right to reply at the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14173	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. Article 107. Rules of Procedure. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: I have previously reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14174	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14175	I called before Mrs. Gojkovic. I'm telling you, he's a injured member of 106. The Rules of Procedure, because I don't think the speaker was talking about the agenda. It is talked about who is how they mark whether they will speak for or against certain legal proposals. I don't think there's any way we should build a structure and impute someone through that discussion, which is practically out of the agenda, something that's untrue. All those who have been able to attend the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Justice, for example, have been able to hear my position on all these laws, especially as regards the law which is being discussed here as the 1st point of the agenda. In this sense, we have made a huge effort to achieve an even greater protection of not only minors, but especially sensitive groups of persons, to protect all of them and to make a proposal to which minors, but especially sensitive groups of persons, will be protected. If we're talking about the protection of minors here, we should also talk about the protection of pregnant women and the protection of all those against whom these acts can be directed. In this sense, to build a structure and in this way violate the Rules of Procedure, so it is really unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14176	Mr. Mikovic, it is your right to think it is. I didn't get the impression that it was, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure were hurt. If you want, we can make a statement in the voting day. The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14177	I thank the president, and if you let Mr. Mikovic go, but I will gentlemen allow Mr. Mikovic, as the representative of the opposition, always to speak before the authorities because it is the main order in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14178	Mrs. Gojkovic, please, you must as a People's MP, I beg you, you must know the Rules of Procedure and you cannot use the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. Please, and I'm warning you, you haven't even listed which member. Don't put me in a position, you have to tell me which member is injured first, and then explain it. Here you go. Sign up again because you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14179	Mr. Chairman, I've signed up again, and I'd like to ask you to allow the sentence to end, or it should be said immediately in article 107 as a parrot. Here, I'll be a parrot, article 107. So, I believe the dignity of the congregation is at stake. The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I have fulfilled my form, and I essentially think that the gentleman, the MP, in fact, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic made a harsh lie by saying that I wasn't in the O.R. and that I was in the O.R., to notice that he or any of the opposition MPs, in fact, had passed "Maria's" law. First, you were wrong to give members of the DS, or MPs, to report. I, in no single word, ask a stenogram, to make sure, did not mention the MPs of the DS, but I used the words of the opposition MPs, some MPs, and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14180	Mrs. Gojkovic, please complete your exposure to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. It's a different understanding, I have to make a comment, the single parliamentary groups or the MPs, by seeing a particular problem, the law, etc., I don't see that this violates the dignity of the assembly. Therefore, the fact that Mrs. Mikovic or someone saw that, or felt that in that sense, she disagreed with your exposure is his right. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and you have the right if you feel that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, to plead in the day of the vote and to discuss it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare this?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14181	I don't want to, because it's perfectly clear that the Rules of Procedure has been hurt and I have a satisfaction in what's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14182	Okay, that's your right to think so. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14183	Dear Chairman, Article 27. – lead session of the assembly. I would like this opportunity to appeal to you and to all MPs, not to discuss such an important subject that we all support and where there is absolute consent, debates and stories that are round on paper, whether this one meant this or that. We are now wasting ten minutes of precious time from a debate where absolute unity is to be shown, to meaningless stories of who's rounding up. We also need MPs all to be dignified and to discuss the argument of this law, and primarily to make this text of the law better, not to waste time on these, to say stupid things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14184	I join your position, but I also ask the MPs not to quote MPs from other parties in their discussions. Everyone has the right to state their position, but as soon as he quotes someone from another party, the man finds himself shot and thinks he should react. Thanks for the suggestions, but I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Now we're gonna take a break so we don't start a new debate. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, due to the need for the National Assembly to pass an act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14185	We're going back to work. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14186	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about "Maria's Law", that is, the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors. To avoid the misunderstandings that occurred at the end of the previous part of the debate, I will point out that the DS will support this law. We will support this law for a number of reasons. One of them, and most importantly, is that we are deeply convinced of his justification. What has already been pointed out in the debate, we are pleased that a bill which the previous government, led by the DS, has adopted and that it is now before us. The only thing we can feel sorry for is that I personally regret that he has not been adopted before, not to attribute success to ourselves, but to have a year more opportunity to apply this law and thus perhaps prevent some returnees of these crimes. Dear MPs, I think that the data that has been presented today, and valuable data has been presented by my distinguished colleague, Ljiljana Lucic, all the data we hear about one growing trend of these crimes, the return of these crimes, therefore, one great tendency to increase this number of crimes, speak in favour of having to act as a society much more energetically to prevent and restore these crimes, but also to create conditions for pedophilia, to commit crimes against minors and in this sphere of criminal acts against semi-freedom to a maximum reduction. We are, of course, all very sensitive with the right to criminal acts against the full freedoms of children and minors, and that is because they endanger one of the basic needs of every human community, that it takes care of the welfare of children and young people, to protect them, to allow them to grow up in the best possible conditions. The human community through history wouldn't have survived if it hadn't had that solidarity with the very youngest members of the community, if it hadn't cared about its rejuvenation. That's why we're all very sensitive to the victims of paedophile, child prostitution, pornography, because they're essentially destructive and are essentially dangerous to children's health and psychosocial development. I believe that the Assembly will vote unitedly for this law. That's why we're all here for children and minors to be particularly protected from criminal acts that threaten their half-freedom. There are several solutions in this law that are understandable and whose motives are extremely clear. Just some of them I'd like to point out. Even though there was a lot of talk about this law during the previous debate, and although I did not agree that some arguments were repeated during the debate, I think that this law deserves it and that the greater the number of MPs on this law speak, for one reason, that there was a silence in our society for a long time about the problem of pedophilia, about the problems faced by the victims of these crimes, which somehow thought it was happening elsewhere, rather than us. In recent years, a lot has been done in various spheres, both through school and through various forms of education, through parental information, parent associations, etc. and especially through some institutional mechanisms, which seek to bring this problem to light and, in some ways, promote debate and awareness of how dangerous this phenomenon is for society in general. So the solutions that this law provides are good, that the court can't ease the sentence, that it can't parole whoever committed one of the crimes in this area. A step under the Criminal Code appears to be about the length of the legal consequences of the conviction. The criminal code limits the legal consequences of the conviction to ten years, and this law seems to be a step forward in the fact that the legal consequences of the conviction are extended to 20 years. It is fully justified to prohibit the establishment of a working relationship or occupation relating to working with minors. It's one of the measures that seeks to prevent the return of crimes in this area. The supervision that is predicted after a sustained prison sentence is absolutely demonstrated as necessary and I think that some of the solutions taken from comparative legal practice are really good, because we all have to bear in mind that the percentage of returns in the largest number of perpetrators of these crimes is very high, because it is a single disorder of sexual behavior that this high return and condition. It is therefore a very important ban to visit places where minors gather, notice of changes in residence, etc. When we talk about applying these surveillance measures, I want to point out only one need to institutionally strengthen all mechanisms that will apply this surveillance. And my predecessor in the debate talked about some British experiences. I have recently met some British experiences in this area, how much attention they pay to the construction of those institutions dealing with the enforcement of measures, or former punishments, and those who are at risk of return, which is because they know to what extent the supervision itself can be a fertile ground for corruption, to which extent it can be a fertile ground for human rights violations, to which extent there is a single practice at national level, very trained personnel, who are able to truly perform a quality and competent control function. Therefore, the procedures and institutional capacities of those who exercise supervision are extremely important if we want this law to be properly applied. That's why I want to talk about one more thing. This law aims to... (President: Mrs. Vukkovic, just to let you know that your parliamentary group is out of time. I just want to finish my last sentence. This law aims to prevent the return of crimes against minors, crimes against gender freedom, but as a society, we must do much more to prevent the appearance of pedophiles and these crimes in general, through education, through schools and through the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14187	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14188	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the Honorable Members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure is a law governing criminal proceedings and a sort of test of democracy and respect for guaranteed rights of citizens in one country. The new Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted in 2011 and has not yet come into force since its application was delayed, completely replaced the current system of criminal proceedings that existed in Serbia since its first normative, at the end of the 19th century. The legal and professional public have raised numerous criticisms about the overall system of resolution of the law, and it has been assessed as a kind of hybrid of the "American criminal procedure" carried out by law enforcement authorities, done according to the Soviet system. The law has abolished the existing principle of material truth in criminal proceedings so far, obliging the court to decide only on the evidence that the prosecutor, as well as the defendant and his defender, have made during the proceedings. He introduced a prosecutor's investigation in a strange way, while predicting the existence of an investigative and investigative procedure run by the prosecutor in both cases, so one of them is completely losing its purpose. Furthermore, he totally paralyzed the court in the process, assembling his role as a silent observer. In accordance with the order of action and character and the role of the participants in the main investigation on which the evidence and the court are materially decided on the responsibility and punishment of the accused, he almost identified with the litigation. The overall assessment of this law by the professional public eventually came to a general conclusion, almost consensually occupied – that the law is bad from the basics and that it needs to be changed. Since the beginning of last year, the law has been applied by the authorities responsible for curbing the work of organised crime, corruption and particularly serious crimes. Their experience so far has contributed to the need for serious and studio work, or for corrections, amendments and additions to the existing text of the law, or to the development of a completely new solution that would retain some newly introduced institutes, but adapted it to the European continental legal tradition of which Serbia's legal system is undeniable and belongs, as well as clarifying the mass of indetermination that the existing law contains. In this regard, the public is already aware that the Ministry of Justice has formed a working group aimed at preparing a draft of amendments and additions that would do so. However, we now have a proposal to amend and supplement only a few provisions from the set of measures prepared and presented to the public. It is clear to us that this bill intervenes in the part that does not suffer the delay, in order to enable authorities responsible for the control of organised crime and corruption to act legally with regard to those particularly serious criminal offences that are foreseen by amendments to the 2012 Criminal Code. Furthermore, the provisions concerning the decision on the detention of the accused following the publication of the verdict also apply, as the most difficult measures to ensure the presence of the accused during the criminal proceedings which the court often has to examine. In that sense, the proposed solution is good because it sets clear conditions when detention must be lifted and as long as it can last, which the current text of the laws did not contain, where a legal vacuum would be created. At the same time, the amendments return to an earlier provision that a lawyer can replace a lawyer as a lawyer in criminal proceedings for acts for which a sentence of up to five years has been threatened, which we consider to be good because it allows those persons to gain the necessary practical experience for which there is a legally prescribed traineeship in general. We believe that, even in this scope, it is good to amend such an important law, and to expect a comprehensive solution that this matter will be regulated, to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure, with a single correction proposed by the amendment. Mr Minister, we suggest that as soon as possible, it is necessary to get out of the fire-extinguishing phase, or to write supplements and changes for a short period of time and enter the stage of comprehensive solutions, i.e. writing and resolving laws in general, appropriate to the democratic achievements of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14189	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14190	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a few laws before us that we are considering through a united debate within one item of the agenda, and each one of them deserves to be explained in detail, but I, like most MPs, will look back at one, the one we called as a warning the name of a girl who has herself become a victim of sexual violence. The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Abuse and Abuse has committed all those countries that have ratified it to take both general and special measures, to protect children from this type of crime. It is clear that the process of child protection against any type of abuse must be a unique system process, co-operation of institutions, organisations and bodies, with a clear role in pre-warning, but at the same time stop violence, as well as to provide adequate social, health and family protection measures, which can provide adequate support, but at the same time also mitigate traumatic consequences. Why it's important to pass one of these laws is best understood by speaking to the victim's position. As we have heard, according to official data from the Council of Europe, every fifth child experienced some kind of sexual violence, and of the five children who were abused, as many as four girls. Sexual violence has experienced nearly 7.5% of boys and more than 2% of 11-year-old girls, and that figure triples when girls are 13 years old, and they also reach a very worrying figure of 11.% when it comes to the high school population. Sexual violence is often committed by an adult male, and it is surprising that a negligiblely small number of parents know what happens to children in general, so around 0.4%, which also points to the severity of the problem. The perpetrators of sexual violence are often not strangers to children. What's more, it's very common for people from the nearest environment. Even over 81% are people that the child knows and trust. So they're very often father, stepfather, foster father, grandfather, teacher, neighbor. The perpetrators take advantage of the affection, addiction, fear, and infirmity of the child. Although it occurs at all ages, it usually begins at the age of 4 to 8 years or during the period of adolescence. Sexual violence is often kept in secret or bribery or special attention to the child, of course using the various mechanisms to develop a child’s guilt, fear, fear of revenge, blackmail, threats of loss of attention, love of parents, or their divorce. The goal, of course, is to keep the crime from being found and to avoid punishment. So sexual abuse of children is one extremely pathological phenomenon and is one of the most difficult forms of violence against children. Rarely, it is isolated, very often combined with emotional abuse and physical abuse, but whether one or more occurred during a long period of time, sexual abuse in a child causes painful and traumatic experience. A sexually abused child has a long intense suffering that suppresses both his intellectual development and affects his intellectual curiosity, creativity, it is inhibited, and he feels worthless, ashamed, he loses confidence in himself and others. This often lays the foundation of depression that follows them throughout life, but also for other types of mental disorders. One study from a long time ago in 1986 showed that as many as 60% of women and 30% of men with depression were sexually abused during the early development period. Unfortunately, the data suggests that those who abuse the most often were themselves victims of domestic violence, or abuse, and the likelihood that sexual abusers will precisely be the one who performs the act eight times greater than in the regular population. I therefore believe that the proposed legal measures are very much with their purpose and, among other things, include different types of psychosocial assistance and support for the perpetrators themselves. That this is still a taboo topic in Serbia shows that only 5% of people are willing to report sexual violence against children for a family they know. That's why it is a huge proportion between the real situation and the number of reported violence. At the service, at schools, educational workers, media, and to us MPs, it is an extremely great responsibility to sensitise these problems clearly, to clearly and loudly say that the problem exists, to create conditions for these crimes to be adequately sanctioned and to work in the long term on this problem. Every crime must be punished, but the crime against the children is the most severe. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the URS, of course, it is not particularly important to point out that we will support this law, but I would also like to welcome the initiative that the Child Rights Council has supported, that a criminal act relating to sexual abuse is not time-consuming but that through our laws it is changing and becoming an act that is not outdated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14191	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14192	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I will say something about a law relating to the abuse of the rights of minors, and after a little more about the law of confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. Any other situation than the one in which we are now that all MPs will support this law would be completely unnatural. As a man and as a parent of three children, and as a citizen, I am seriously concerned about the situation in society, increased number of such crimes, increased rates of domestic violence, promotion through the media of immorality and depravity, a general crisis of value that inevitably brings out the worst from people to the surface, so that they dare to do something that is forbidden and morally unacceptable than in some other situations. Putting or raising the level of freedom of human rights, freedom of the media at the expense of the values on which we are part, which is primarily a Christian civilization, has led to the fact that the family has been significantly torn apart and that we have come into a situation to increase the number of all these crimes. As far as the DSS is concerned, families and children must enjoy maximum protection and attention. A state equally responsible with all other institutions must seek to ensure such protection and security. At no front or when it comes to certain human rights, certain media freedoms must be no exception if we talk about preventing this type of crime involving domestic violence and violence as a model of behaviour that is being promoted through various media. It's something that, to the worst extent, violates the very roots of Christian civilization, every normal society that we now live in. We have proposed amendments that tighten the provisions of this law and through the amendments we have proposed what the President of the Assembly has spoken of, we have suggested that these crimes do not go out of date, that there is no parole and no parole for this type of defendants. So, these crimes and those who do not need to have any chance of being treated less gently than what the law prescribes and that any kind of pardon or parole or any way of compassion towards them at some point can be observed, especially those who are to blame are the ones who are most later and returnees. Through the amendments we have proposed, we foresee more precisely how to carry out the control of the records and supervision of the persons who have been subject to the penalties of this crime. We also believe that our deepest belief is that this law and the solutions in this law must be reached without any party or political story. On the contrary, we need to find the best solutions to prevent the increase of criminal acts of this nature from growing more effectively in the next period. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support the law. We're sorry he wasn't brought in last year. We believe that we must all advocate the application of this law and make it as fast and efficient as possible and there is no exception. In Part Two, I'm going to tell you more about the property confiscation Act. This law is certainly better than the previous law because it is not anti-constitutional and it does not endanger human rights relating to pre-judgment of innocence, that no one is guilty until convicted and that the possibility of temporary confiscation of property being sold before someone is convicted. It is not disputed for us to keep the temporarily seized property, to place a ban on availability, simply that property that is prone to decay, corrupt or sell and donate for humanitarian purposes, but it is disputed that you take away property and then destroy it. It's extremely controversial for us that the car you take from someone who hasn't been convicted, someone drives and breaks it. It is simply unacceptable, because citizens will be the ones who, in the event that they are not convicted, or that the case becomes obsolete, which has been the case so far, will be citizens who will have to compensate for the costs incurred as destruction or as damage to the property that has been taken away in this process, so that the solutions offered in this law are far better than the previous solutions. The law is much more precise, clearer, more powers are given to the directorate and much better procedures are defined than before. We believe that this improvement of this law, which is well in line with the solutions that exist in countries that have so far been much more effective than us in the fight against crime and corruption, and we think that this law can make a qualitative contribution to change the situation. As a party, of course, and myself personally, we don't mind that the seized property is used for general useful purposes. After all, my son goes to the nursery, into a house that was taken from Uskokovic, former director of EDB. It's just that it's normal and it's done everywhere in the world, houses are used for that purpose, for children's stays, they're given to health institutions, educational, educational, non-governmental organisations dealing with child rights improvements, youth, and that's something that's acceptable. It is unacceptable for us that, in the earlier period, individual MPs were able to rent apartments that were taken into account under the previous law. It's something that wasn't appropriate and I hope it won't be in the future. Also, attention at the disposal of this property must be high, and we as MPs will insist, through the supervision that will be carried out in the implementation of this law, that all this be in accordance with the law and in a way that would not cause damage to the citizens of Serbia, if that property were destroyed, as we had the case to see that it was in some previous period. What is my dilemma, and here I need an explanation from the minister, in Article 82 of this law, you say that - the proceedings of confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence begin until the date of entry into force of this law, under the provisions of the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence – means, according to the provisions of the old law, it will end under the provisions of that law. There's one thing that bothers me. By this law, you predicted, it refers to new crimes, that is, to the crimes that we erased last December, when we changed the Criminal Law, which is abuse of the official position and the rest, and that's good. We have, just to simply clarify whether there is a legal gap, if the proceedings are concluded under the old law that are now in place, and we have a new Criminal Code from which the crimes have been wiped out, that the confiscation of property under the old law has begun, that we do not come into the situation that there is one right gap, that all those who have begun the abuse of official position and others are subject to a more favourable solution to the defendant's situation so that they can't be taken away from their property because it's always being applied, at least it's in the criminal law, a more favourable solution is applied to the defendant. Simply, we need an explanation, that is, simply to say, a legal question – whether this law will allow the confiscation of property and those whose proceedings have been initiated under the old law, given that the crimes that existed in the old law have been abolished, and these crimes have not been put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14193	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14194	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, MPs, is the position of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposals of all five laws that are on the agenda was presented by our colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, a position that contains both political and professional approach. Of course, our colleague Djordje Milicevic also confirmed in his statement of those views. And I, confirming the words of both, want to stick to just a few details and, first of all, to two laws. First of all, when it comes to the Law on Special Measures for the Prevention of Criminal Crimes Against Half-Freedom Against Juvenile Persons, I want to start by saying one general position. Measures, activities, everything taken in terms of prevention, in terms of preventing violence against children, child protection and, of course, when it comes to this subject today, the greater degree of criminal justice, the SPS will give and will always give strong support. When it comes to this particular law, the Law on Special Measures to Prevent Criminal Crimes Against Half-Freedom Against Juvenile Persons, we think it's only part of the measure and activity of what I was just talking about. This law should be supported for purpose, for purpose, for what it is intended to achieve. I mentioned earlier, it is, above all, a higher degree of criminal-legal protection of minors, and then, in addition to the existing system of criminal sanctions, the title itself tells him that the perpetrators of the crimes against semi-freedom committed according to minors are making it impossible to do those acts again. So, in addition to the general sanctions, of course, it's about predicting, preventing the same acts from being done in the future. What I want to point out when it comes to this law, just a few details. The purpose of passing this law is what I was talking about, that, in addition to the existing criminal sanctions system, special measures are taken, in order not to repeat themselves, so that the perpetrators do not do so in particular. The essence of this law is to provide for these specific measures and to establish a specific criminal record for these convicted persons. What I want to say briefly, when it comes to criminal sanctions, is that we support the position that he has found his place in this law, that the perpetrator of a crime cannot be relieved, nor can the convicted be paroled. It's also on the trail of our pawnage at one of the previous sessions, when we felt we shouldn't automatically fire, but that we should selectively watch how to do it. What is the essence of this law is seen in legal consequences, convictions and special measures. Legal consequences, when it comes to losing public office, losing a job, the one related to working with underage children, to the inability to be elected to office, the inability to get that job, is already one of those measures that the law foresees to apply. And, of course, those special five measures, which were a lot of words, and I wouldn't take the time to do that. I just want, when it comes to this law, to finally say, even though this very difficult topic is on the agenda, to join one of the attitudes that is present here, a kind of unity to show the state's willingness to face and to solve this problem, and this is seen from this debate yesterday and today. I'm joining that. Given the importance of this law, I call on Mr. Minister, knowing that he is always ready to engage in a debate, in controversy, in an argumentable controversy, to take a good look at all amendments and all those who contribute to the improvement of this law to accept. This is primarily because we all have shown an attitude that we want such a law to be passed. So there's no other reason than to fix it. In the end, just one sentence. What we're talking about, we're talking about consequences. Work happened. In addition to criminal sanctions, we are now introducing special measures for the perpetrator of the crime. I think we should send a message to all of us, society in general, that we should go in one organized way, to ensure, to take measures of activity, to face the causes, to avoid a crime. I'd like you to have one message in mind. When it comes to this second law, the law on confiscation of property stemmed from criminal acts, I would only briefly confirm the words that my fellow MPs have already said and also to keep your attention to a few details. I join those who say that the law that was passed in 2008 is a good law, and that what is now proposed is better. So it makes me happy that the ministry and the government weren't disgusted with good solutions, but that they were taking them over as well. The significance of this is whether 350, 360, 300 or how many million euros is important. The importance is also greater when it comes to this law, which is that the law allows both efficient and comprehensive confiscation of property acquired by crime. This also responds to EU requirements, to improve strengthening legislation and to strengthen the capacity to confiscate property benefits obtained by criminal acts, but the most important thing is to break the practice that criminals, especially profitable ones, are convicted of these crimes and retain property. That's the most important thing right now. Very short, which part is it applied to? Here in Article 2, all these works are listed. What has already been planned has been extended and yet, not to take up your time, I think there's room to expand even more. Now I have one question. Right now, I'm not a lawyer, and I wouldn't want to disrupt anything, I'm asking in logical folk language. If this is the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, why does it not apply to the property of all these crimes, to the property resulting from the execution of that crime? If someone has committed a crime, and the property they possess has come from that crime, why does it not apply to all the crimes? I know that what's listed, to say by the so-called, most profitable, are the biggest problems that the state should face and certainly should give priority, but also, I warn, there are many people still in this country where the visible eye suspects that their property is much bigger than they could earn. When the assets are defined, what is key is the notion that the assets that are disproportionate to legal incomes are defined by the owner, defined by the competent authorities, defined and defined by the procedure. I would only have one question again when it comes to the start of the procedure, i.e. the launch of a financial investigation. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be, but I always have this spare when it's called "sizable." What's significant? How much is that? How big is that? Just some detail that shouldn't be left inexplicable. When it comes to the procedure, I also want to draw your attention, that what is most important is that permanent confiscation can only be carried out after a judicial verdict for a criminal offence, but at the same time it has been prevented from disappearing through the temporary confiscation of that property. A very important question is the issue of international co-operation. It's known to all of us when it comes to this area. So I don't have to go any further, I want to finish three messages. One is that this law is a very important instrument in the fight against organised crime, crime, corruption, and that it is a framework for the perpetrators to take away property they do not prove legally obtained. So we have a standard. I have two messages that I also think are important. One is that no one can retain the property benefit obtained by committing a crime, and another that no one can benefit from the crime committed, nor the persons who have inherited such property. With these messages, I want to repeat once again that we will give full support to the proposals of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14195	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14196	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, today we have a very important set of laws in the area of the judiciary, which my colleagues have already said a lot about. In short, I'm going to look back on some of the laws we're discussing today. The draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure has several very important amendments. Namely, by amending Article 73. The law deletes a discriminatory provision, which speaks of who can be a defender in criminal proceedings. I believe that this change is extremely important, although this code will have to endure more changes, because the original law has been brought into reform that has brought a series of problems that we are now facing. The proposed amendment allows the lawyer to replace the defendant in the criminal proceedings for which the prison sentence is prescribed for up to five years. This contributes to the education of a legal intern. Also, prescribing a special internship when a lawyer can be a defender violated the constitutional right of the defendant at the very least. Who can guarantee that a better defense attorney with at least five years of work experience will provide the defendant with a better defense, if the same person has gained that experience in working on general litigation, for example, from a lawyer who has two years of training and has been guilty? Also, denying the right of a lawyer's intern to replace the principles and to keep the final word at trial for criminal acts for which the prescribed sentence of prison is up to five years can't contribute to the need for a lawyer's apprentice to gain the necessary work experience. Furthermore, the provision of the law relating to detention as a measure of ensuring the presence of the accused after the first degree sentence is not any newspaper that does not know our criminal procedural right. This provision existed in our previous laws on criminal proceedings, but in the latest we have a legal void to solve. What about the defendant who's in custody or the defendant who's been convicted of a conviction, and he's not in custody, but there's a basis for determining the same? The amendments and additions to this code were proposed only to continue the legal continuity that existed in our legislation, which was marred by poor judicial reform. As regards the new Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, the same substantial amendments to the current law have been made, in particular in the part where certain problems have been observed in the application of the existing one, and with the suggestion of the expert public and relevant international organisations. The new law improves the existing law because it takes care of the presumption of innocence, so permanent confiscation of property can only occur after a strong verdict has been passed. Also, I think it is good that the new law gives greater authority to the Directive on the Management of Disposal of Assets, which will contribute to the greater efficiency of the work of this body. The adoption of this law contributes to the continuation of the fight against corruption and crime. In the end, I will refer to today, in my opinion, the most important "Maria's Law", which is before us, before the MPs, who came first and foremost to the efforts of one man, Slobodan Jovanovic of Novi Sad, my fellow citizen. This law can really be talked about and my colleagues have said a lot, both legally and morally, but I think the most important thing is that we finally get one law that can set us up in countries that already have such legal regulations and that will contribute to greater security and protect particularly sensitive categories of persons. This law should have been passed long ago, back in 2010, when the Convention, mentioned by colleagues, was adopted, but there was always something more urgent and it was standing in the drawer. Nothing is more urgent than trying to protect children and introducing a special registry for perpetrators of crimes against full freedoms. This law regulates that perpetrators of a crime against semi-freedom cannot be mitigated, that they cannot be paroled and what legal consequences arise, which measures will be carried out. That's something short. The law isn't perfect. I'm sure there will be a large number of amendments that will help make this law better, but it would be best if we had any law in this regulation that regulates this particularly sensitive area, but that we don't, as it has been. I really thank Slobodan Jovanovic, who, despite his pain, managed to force us to pass such a law and to initiate the story of this law, that other children were protected, when his Mary could not, and indeed I call on all my colleagues to support both this law and other laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14197	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14198	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the time we live in is unfortunately everything else, we just can't say it's normal. The confirmation of that fact is precisely this law that we're talking about today, when we're adopting special measures to prevent criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors. Why is that? Because every morning we look at the newspaper with fear of reading that another terrible crime has happened in Serbia. Because the perpetrators of these monstrous crimes of rape and pedophilia, even after serving a prison sentence, are mostly returnees. That is why they must be kept awake under the supervision of police and society. The purpose of this law is to prevent the perpetrator of such a crime from committing such a crime again. The perpetrators of such crimes came from this very society. That's why we have to act preventively, and that's why we need to revalue the entire social system. It's right to ask the question of what kind of people we've become and what's the reason for that. We are more evidently in this country than our enemies or the dangers that we do not recognize. Mr. Minister, if we have a state, then we have everything, then we have both the economy and the economy and the legal security and the football team, education and culture, and only in such a country can children grow normally and develop, then Serbia has a future. I am pleased that the law restricts the movement of the perpetrator of these crimes and should be limited, as an animal, no offense to animals. The Democratic Party of Serbia has therefore proposed in certain provisions to tighten the proposal with which you came to this parliament. It's a great paper that introduces the DNA profile of the convicted. Our Criminal Code knows the crime of possession and the acquisition of images of audio-visual and other objects of pornographic content, created by the exploitation of a minor, but we are all aware of how much computer crime has been developed and how difficult it is to prove. Therefore, special support should be given to all bodies dealing with this problem. I am pleased that this law does not provide for the possibility of easing penalties and does not provide for the possibility of parole for the convicted. An excellent solution is that the legal consequences last 20 years, but I say once again, the DSS proposes that it be permanent. We're also looking for a ban on deleting convictions from criminal records. We also ask that criminal prosecution for crimes committed at the expense of a child or a minor does not go out of date. We are satisfied with what criminal measures are envisaged and proposed in this law and we will support that. I am pleased that today's debate is not used for political marketing and for the Serbian public, when it comes to these problems, but that we will finally agree on one issue. Regardless of my personal dilemma whether this bill is in full compliance with the Criminal Code, the DSS will certainly support it when it is decided on. When it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, these are indeed the minimum possible changes with which you have come to parliament, changes in the very bad CAP. You do not change the Law that contains in itself certain provisions that are very discriminatory, even in my view may be anti-constitutional. For months, a broader version of this code has been on the Justice Ministry site. We are really interested – did you give up this proposal and will you soon come to the congregation with a new code? Old practice continues. In September 2011, we adopted the Code of Criminal Procedure in parliament. Already in December, he was changed through an emergency procedure through changes and additions. Now we're going to change and supplement three members, and in a few months we're going to discuss a new law. This current CAP, unfortunately, has two capital anomalies that completely contaminate the entire text of this law, which primarily refers to the devaluation of the principle of truth and the party structure of the main search, with a drastic minimisation of the role of the criminal court. In addition, today you have proposed amendments relating to detention after a first degree verdict because the practice has shown this. But every day, the representatives of the authorities talk about the truth and the justice we need, and the CAP may be a good example of not giving an answer to what is true, because the truth in the CAP is practically a luxury and one unnecessary ballast, one burden in criminal proceedings, because not even a hint of truth for all actors in the process is marked as the aim of criminal proceedings, which is, least of all, immoral. What is justice, we spoke today. Do we all have to drive a bantille or no one should drive a bantille? I think it's perfectly clear to anyone who thinks normally and who wants good to this country. Is it your intention to change the CAP, which promoted the express passivity of the court? So, the previous minister assured us that judges should be the jury that will score the prosecution's performance and defence in the evidence and that success will be crucial to the court's decision. I'm sure you're aware that the newly-compromised Serbian investigation doesn't look like either Russian or American, that it's not even parallel, that it looks the most like a Hague investigation. The reason why it has not been proposed and passed to this Assembly is a new code, and there is a great danger, as I remind you, in the meantime, that many judges, prosecutors and members of certain police services are already going to education and various courses for months to apply as successfully as possible the current CAP. Perhaps the best solution was that you put this law out of force and that we applied, of course, that all the procedures that started with it were completed, to apply the 2001 CAP, and that the sooner we changed the Code of Criminal Procedure. Eleven months have passed since the election. One quarter of your term as a member of the Constitution has already passed, let's change the broken Serbian judiciary and help these people do their job with honesty and honesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14199	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14200	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, given that my colleagues have spoken more extensively about all the proposed laws, I will devote my time to this "Maria's Law". The Socialist Party of Serbia welcomes the Justice Ministry's determination to introduce, in addition to an existing system of criminal sanctions, special measures to prevent the committing of crimes against gender freedom towards minors. Social phenomena burdened with the execution of these crimes are a clear signal that society with such phenomena must face and find mechanisms to eliminate and prevent the adverse consequences of such phenomena. Certainly, by including all competent institutions and professional organisations in a single synchronised system of prevention and sanctioning. During this debate, and in the very explanation you gave us under the law, it was stated that in the last few years in Serbia and increased the number of crimes against semi-freedom, which were committed according to minors. However, this information does not have to automatically indicate a realistic increase in the number of these crimes. It may be an indication that there has been an increase in the number of cases involving the reporting of criminal acts to competent institutions. In the past few years, the Republic of Serbia has been committed to establishing and improving the system of child protection against all forms of violence, through the adoption of strategies, amendments to laws and the aforementioned international conventions. Joint activities by state authorities and civil society organisations have achieved a higher level of trust in the institutions of Serbian citizens, and thus also citizens, including victims, are encouraged to report these crimes, even if they are committed within their families. The government of the Republic of Serbia's readiness to establish an effective child protection system against all forms of abuse and violence, according to the memorandum of co-operation on the establishment of an effective child protection system against child abuse and exploitation through information technologies, which was signed several days ago by the Ministry of Interior with the organisation of "Save the Children", which continued the successful co-operation of the interior ministry and this international organisation, which deals with the protection of children's rights globally. I will remind you that in 2011, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic signed a protocol with this organisation on the treatment of police officers in the protection of minors against abuse and neglect, which improves police procedures in the area of prevention and protection of children against violence. In order to establish a comprehensive child protection system, we have before us a law on special measures to prevent criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, which provides for specific measures to be implemented after the sentence of imprisonment has been carried out, as well as a provision that prohibits the possibility of easing penalties and parole for the perpetrators of these crimes. This law creates a space for society to commit itself more effectively to those who are directly threatened by the execution of these crimes, which is the population that needs our greatest attention. Keeping a special record of the perpetrators of these crimes, as a insistence that state and other authorities, as well as legal persons, working with minors, are seeking data from the register in establishing a working relationship, is a measure that reduces the possibility of re-executing this crime, which is in practice very common. This law should be seen in the context of broader sociological aspects. It should not be forgotten that those who have caused negative social phenomena, and these are the perpetrators of these crimes, must certainly have adequate treatment, which includes punishment, and resociation measures, which also reduces the possibility of a person doing the same crime again. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group supports the bill, as it establishes a comprehensive system of child protection against all forms of violence, and encourages all of us here. My conclusion is that in the day of voting, all MPs, or all MPs, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14201	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14202	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us a set of judicial laws that certainly treats each and every one of its aspects in the best way the topic and the problem it deals with. Of course, the Serbian Progressive Party will support all four laws that are on the agenda, but I will focus on "Maria's Law", and I will focus on the law on confiscation of property stemmed from the crime. Why am I going to focus on the draft law on special measures to prevent crimes against half-freedom against minors? First of all, for two reasons, because I consider him to be one, and how significant, from a criminal-legal aspect of the protection of minors, who are the most vulnerable social group and who are exposed to the most severe type of abuse, which is sexual exploitation and abuse. That's one reason. The second reason is because this bill is in some form and preventive law, because it prescribes special measures against the perpetrators of criminal acts, against gender freedom, and all in order to avoid reciting, or repeating, the crime. Although the Council of Europe has adopted the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse in 2010, although the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the Convention in 2010, although the countries that ratified this Convention were obliged to regulate the legislative framework, to arrange a single register, i.e. to collect data to determine the genetic profile, i.e. DNA of the perpetrators of criminal offences, this has not been done until today. First of all, I want to give my gratitude to the Government and I want to commend the minister of justice, because it is a resolute ministry, because I believe that through the passing of this law in the ordinary procedure, or before the MPs, they have also shown this sensitivity and what responsibility to the most vulnerable social group, and these are children, and to the protection of children who are exposed to the most difficult form of abuse, which is how I have already said sexual abuse and sexual harassment. Of course, this law has a preventive character, because special measures are proposed, which take 20 years and start to run after a sustained prison sentence. These specific measures concern that the perpetrator is obliged to report to the police station and to the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions every 15th of the month, that he is obliged to inform both the police station and the Administration of the execution of criminal sanctions on the change of residence, i.e. the change of working relationship, within three days of the change being made. He is also required to visit counselling centres and other institutions in order to resociate him, he is obliged to inform the police station and the Administration of the enforcement of criminal sanctions and his intention to leave the country. He's obliged to give information to which country he's going, how long he's there and for what reason he's going. What I also want to praise, and as far as this law is concerned, is the keeping of this unique register, because it also contains, in addition to the general data, data relating to the DNA of the persons convicted of these crimes. This is important, not only from the point of view of domestic legislation, but also how important it is in the repression of these crimes at international level, and we know that these crimes are terrible, that a terrifying phenomenon, not only in our country, but on the continent of Europe at all. The Serbian Progressive Party has no dilemma when it comes to supporting a law that creates a legal framework, protecting children from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. That's why in the voting day we're going to support this law. Another law, which would also like only in a few sentences to elaborate, is the Law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act. It is known to Serbian citizens that SNS has zero tolerance for corruption, and this law is currently treating the confiscation of assets acquired through criminal activities. That is certainly the basic reason why we will support this law in the voting day. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14203	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14204	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, Dostoyevski wrote long ago that even mankind's greatest happiness is not worth a single tear from an innocent child. We who sit here in this high home are obliged to give quality legal proposals protection, primarily those who are the most unprotected, and who unfortunately often become victims of those most cruel who are able to cause the greatest child's suffering. The rebellion of a father who had experienced a personal family tragedy and the worst way he could have convinced himself, and then convinced all of us here that the laws that the Republic of Serbia has are insufficient to protect an innocent child from a monster, led us to discuss this law today. Not only are children in Serbia at risk, they are threatened both in Europe and in the world, so the Council of Europe adopted the Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse of the Known Lanzaro Convention in 2010, and the 2011 campaign "one out of five" was launched to discuss the proportions of these serious crimes. My colleagues have already spoken, so I won't hold on to it. Serbia ratified this convention as early as May 2010, but the authorities have long failed to do anything to translate the standards contained in the document into legal solutions. A law that would introduce some kind of registry of perpetrators of serious acts of sexual violence committed to children, we've waited quite a long, nearly three years, but it's a good thing that he's here today. For the first time, this assembly majority has also formed a Committee on the Rights of the Child, headed by National Assembly President Nebojsa Stefanovic, which is enough to indicate that we will focus on this problem in a more fundamental way. A woman's parliamentary network has recently been formed, which I would like to mention, which includes MPs from all parties. One of the perilous tasks that we have stated, ours, is to end the age of six for a sexual delinquent to minors, that's something we're about to expect. With this bill, Serbia fulfils the obligations set out in Article 37. Council of Europe Conventions on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. The law prescribes supervision of paedophiles after a sustained prison sentence, as well as the establishment of a register of such convicts with data that will be made available under certain conditions to state authorities and interested companies and individuals, all in agreement with the proposals set out in the Lanzarot Convention of the Council of Europe. A series of special measures that last for two decades has been foreseen, and it believes they should last longer. After a sustained sentence that implies mandatory reporting to the competent police authority, the inability to gather where minors, kindergartens and schools, playgrounds, the mandatory visit of professional counselling centres and institutions, the mandatory reporting of changes in stay and travel abroad, which is very important from the aspect of national co-operation. The registry convicted of criminal offences under the law will be led by the criminal sanctions enforcement administration, as an authority in the Justice Ministry, which should help the competent authorities and the environment in which they live, to take care of their behaviour after their release, as paedophiles and rapists are most often returnees in the execution of the same crimes. With all these measures, it's hard to imagine that someone once convicted of this crime, and after serving his time, can move into our neighborhood without being noticed. It should be pointed out that according to existing data, the profile of pedophile in Serbia is fairly general, and among those detained and arrested there are educational workers, graduate lawyers, priests, physical workers, businessmen, journalists, doctors, unemployed. So we can be pretty surprised ourselves when it turns out to be a pedophile for someone we could never think of. National and other authorities, as well as legal entities, or entrepreneurs working with minors, are obliged to request information on whether the person who is to establish a working relationship with them is involved in the activities with minors is listed in a special record. The law stipulates that the defendant will not be able to perform any public function, and will never be able to be employed by any institution or any firm or institution that has any contact with children. What's particularly important is prevention. The Convention specifically requires that professionals in all sectors that work with children in education, health, social protection, justice, police, but also in sports clubs, institutions of culture and entertainment and such, have adequate knowledge of sexual exploitation and child abuse, and in particular that they have never been convicted of this type of crimes committed against children, and that among them those who have been convicted of this type of crime will not stray. Also, prevention involves the need to inform children in primary and secondary schools, the dangers of sexual exploitation of children, means and means of protection. This bill will be supported by the SNS because it represents a major step forward in the protection of children. However, I do not think the adoption of this law is the conclusion of a business in the implementation of the Lanzarot Convention. What remains as a task of state authorities is the consistent application of the Convention in all its elements. I believe that protecting children from sexual exploitation is the primary task of the state and its organs, so I call on all present Members to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14205	The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14206	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am extremely interested in adopting such a document as Maria's law, with due respect for other legal proposals, and I will today only speak of this proposal. The first good thing is the very fact that in society there has been an increased awareness of the need for a vulnerable group such as minors, systematic protection, and not only by existing criminal legislation, but also by special measures, which is the essence of this law that we are discussing today. It is obvious that the professional services of the Resord Ministry, very carefully and comprehensively prepared the text of this proposal, respecting, on the one hand, our legal regulations, both criminal and those that regulate the entire human rights corps, and on the other hand, international legal regulations and this practice that we have accepted by ratification in this house during the previous period. The threat to the freedom of minors, especially the various forms of their sexual exploitation, is a difficult and painful topic for each citizen individually, but also for the state and society in general. We've already taken the first and hardest step, tabooting the subject, or we've stopped denying as a society that something like this is happening to us at all, especially that it's not a marginal and statistically insignificant phenomenon, and that's not a small thing at all. In addition to criminal and legal sanctions, it is particularly important to strengthen a number of institutions that are constantly dealing with this social, very delicate problem, especially the area of prevention of sexual violence and abuse of minors. In this regard, it is necessary to systematically identify very precisely and to regulate underlaw measures that will eventually bring down the possibility of sexual abuse of minors to a lesser and smaller extent. Here, above all, I think of a caring, professional face checker, who, by the nature of their profession, work daily with minors. I understand that these special measures prevent these jobs from being done by persons who are registered as offenders, but what about those who are latent, potential offenders. Is there a mental status check that works professionally with children both before their professional engagement and continuously during the working century? Sexual violence against minors is a strong form of social and medical pathology, and there are professional methods to determine the mental profile of a person, who daily works with children, and that their mental status is constantly being checked. We live in stressful times where certain socioeconomic situations are often the trigger that leads to human behavior disorders. That's where two groups of problems come in again. First, by preventing children from potential abusers, and second, the subject is sensitive squared. Treat these offenders in an appropriate medical and socially acceptable way. Criminal sanctions are only one segment in this operation. Human society doesn't betray and getouize its citizens, it doesn't quite raise its hands from those who, at some point, start acting socially unacceptable. Society provides them with the possibility of healing and resociation, of course limiting the possibility of similar actions and repeating them. The third thing is to protect minors who feel threatened by potential abusers. We are witnessing numerous cases where minors were left to themselves or did not know who to turn to, and they suffered abuse. Treatment of trauma from sexual abuse at juvenile age is far more difficult and expensive work than system editing to prevent this abuse in time and social advances. In the end, there is no question of abuse of the rights of minors. In a situation where a court ruling and the amount of damage to the perpetrator solves the existence of the whole family, and we are all also holders of judicial functions, people of blood and flesh, very sensitive to such crimes. There is a real possibility that the good intentions of institutions are to abuse and destroy the lives of families of alleged sex offenders, especially as social sigmatisation, moral condemnation and contempt of the environment not only of the offenders, but also of their family members. This is, I repeat, a very difficult and painful problem. The word is walking on thin wire, and that is why besides these legal solutions, which I will personally support, it is necessary to participate in a very wide circle of actors who will also participate in criminal and legal protection of vulnerable categories, but also to create assumptions for fair and human society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14207	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14208	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, dear Serbian citizens, Mr. Minister, I am pleased to see you very often in this high house. I'm aware that you're here because your predecessor in the ministry has obviously worked weaker, made cardinal mistakes and led to you having to follow all the legal proposals, or laws that have already been passed and you're changing them, supplementing them, giving us changes, giving us suggestions to fix something, and we're willing to do it when you're making such proposals. On the other hand, I'm glad that you're not showing vanity and accepting what was really good in the previous period and that through this set of laws that are about the judiciary and that will use the judiciary, you're letting it know that we don't think that it's starting from the moment we're in power, but that everything that's quality and what's good we want to accept. We will, of course, vote in favour of amendments and additions to certain laws and we will accept the laws that you have given before this Assembly today with certain amendments, of course with improvements that are important and important and that have proved to be very useful and necessary in time to bring certain texts to life in the law and in the right way to be applied in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I'm also under the impression that you've given a lot of legal proposals to this assembly. Obviously, you've decided to release your successor at the post of minister of justice in the next government. He'll be very comfortable with it, or you want to get a second term, so that in the second term you work, or you don't do as much as you do now. What you have suggested and what I would specifically refer to is the amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and I think that the legal profession will very much welcome your decisions, that is, your proposals. We know that as far as the defense attorneys are concerned, there was a certain limit that with a certain number of years you must have in law, in order to be able to report as a defense attorney. This time, with this proposal, you make it possible for all the lawyers who took the oath to sign up to the lawyer's register, so that they can be defenders and thus, of course, allow all the defendants and suspects to choose their own defender, that's their constitutional right, their freedom and they can work and choose their defender on the grounds that they think it'll be in the best order. Also, you've given the possibility that defenders, i.e. lawyers, could be replaced by legal interns for crimes for which a sentence of up to five years is intended. So you open up a wide range of activities for these young people who have finished law schools, passed judicial exams, entered the bar in one way they want to deal with this honorable profession, and I think they'll be able to fit in very quickly just by doing the job and, in order to say in the jargon, "burn" or learn to do that job or go to another branch. Also, you noticed that there was a legal gap in the Code of Criminal Procedure, where after the verdict, there was no indication of how detention would be determined. This time, the legal gap is fully covered, by the fact that, of course, a larger court with which the indictment is found, to decide whether to determine the detention from the law of the intended differences, that is, Article 211 paragraph 1 point 1) and (3), if there is a need for detention to be determined, of course, it will be decided by a larger one, and that is now fully and clearly, decidently and unequivocally spoken to these amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Furthermore, a few words only about the law everyone talked about today, about the Law on Special Measures to Prevent Criminal Crimes against Half-Freedom Against Juvenile Persons. We may have been late, maybe this should have been proposed earlier, maybe this law should have been passed much earlier, but they say it's never too late, and now that you've proposed this with certain amendments, of course the SNS parliamentary group will adopt this law in the voting day, or vote for its adoption, with me perhaps making some remarks, perhaps an opinion, as regards the scope of this law. My proposal as a man is that there is no limitation of criminal prosecution for all crimes that will be accused and convicted of people who do so according to underage children. As a professional, I don't know, I'm not really sure the Constitutional Court is going to adopt all this, but of course I will support this if the Justice Department, or the entire government thinks that something like this can be adopted, of course we're going to vote on it. Also, it's very important to say that when it comes to making a decision, the judges are bound by a ban on fines. It's no longer possible to ease the sentence beyond the legal minimum. Therefore, there are no extenuating circumstances for those accused of these serious crimes committed to minors. Also, it's impossible to give parole, to give an opportunity to release a person like this after two-thirds of the suspended sentence on parole. Legal consequences, convictions are very significant. They were colleagues who had said a lot of positive things before me and, of course, it would be an integral part of the text. There are also special measures to be taken against convicted persons for these serious crimes, including mandatory reporting to the police competent authority and the Criminal Sanctions Authority, a ban on visiting places where minors are gathered. I would ask only because I was always correct and listened to all my colleagues when they talked. Thank you. A ban on visiting places where minors are gathered, the mandatory visit of professional counselling centres and institutions, mandatory notification of change of residence and mandatory notification of travel abroad. All these measures will be valid for 20 years after the punishment has been endured. Also, there's my suggestion that these measures apply permanently, because I'm convinced from professional experience that people like this don't fix themselves, that these people are just waiting and lurking at the next opportunity. I think these measures must last for the rest of their lives, and in particular the special record provided for by this law must exist and, together with the DNA profile of the convicted, be entered and listed in the records of the body responsible for such a thing. This law can also be called as we already call it "Maria", but it can also be called "Milaša's Law", "Nimin", "Nikolinim", because there were more people who had to face the worst moments of their youth because of pedophilia, but because of the limitations of certain cases, there were liberating judgments and thus encouraging people that something like this was allowed, or at least that it was not punishable in the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I would invite all fellow MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia, to assist the Marija Jovanovic Foundation, founded by her father Slobodan Jovanovic, whose law today is ahead of us. The foundation's account was opened at the Unicredit Bank, number 170-0030015451000-60. We from the SNS parliamentary group will take part and help the financial foundation, and in the day to vote, the SNS parliamentary group will vote for the whole set proposed by the ministry of justice in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14209	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14210	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 107, because you were just entering the O.R. just before a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly was committed. I cannot allow anyone to express qualifications at the expense of Snezana Malovic. Neither the work of this assembly nor the work of this Parliament nor the subject we are discussing is appropriate. Whether someone is fighting crime, fighting crime by passing laws, or by lighting car arson in Vranj, that's a question we can discuss at sessions when asking questions to the government. But the qualifications that Snezana Malovic was unprofessional, that she did not do well, let the voters say so, but let's also say the value of the seized property under the Law on the confiscation of property derived from criminal acts, not us through ideological discussions, burdened with some other disciplines. It is not polite to insult the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly. If you want to fight crime, solve car arson in Vranj, I'll believe you're fighting crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14211	Mr. Radoslav Komlenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14212	Dear President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, the honourable members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today on the agenda in this high house is a set of five laws that are very important to our society. I have to say right away that the JS MP group is going to support all these five laws in voting day. I'll refer to the first law we called "Maria's Law", according to the little girl Maria from Novi Sad who was raped three years ago and promised a pedophile. I ask the question – did such a terrible crime have to happen so society can do something about it? We support this proposal because of the particular social danger such crimes pose and affect the fundamental foundations of the family, and thus society. It is particularly serious crimes that can only be committed in a particularly cruel and cruel way, leaving lasting consequences for a child over whom the act has been done. I would draw particular attention to Article 3, relating to the perpetrators who committed the following crimes against minors: rape, Article 178 of the 3rd and 4th centuries, where the maximum sentence is prescribed for up to 15 years; promise of an powerless person, Article 179 paragraph 2 and 3, sentence of prison, where maximum sentence is prescribed up to 18 years; promise of child, Article 180, sentence of prison, where maximum sentence is prescribed for up to 10 years; promise of abuse of office, Article 181, sentence of prison, where maximum sentence is prescribed up to 18 years; illicit sex activities, Article 182, sentence of prison, where maximum sentence is prescribed up to 15 years; intervening in the execution of prostitution, Article 184, sentence of prison, where the maximum sentence is prescribed up to 10 years; demonstration, acquisition and possession of pornographic material, exploitation of minors for 5 years is a maximum sentence of 185. We also support Article 5, where the criminal offence of Article 3 of this Act cannot be mitigated by the court’s application of Article 57(1) of the Penal Code. On the basis of Article 7, we support specific measures against the perpetrators of the crime under this law, but we do not agree that the measures laid down in Article 1 of this Article should only be implemented for 20 years, but only to be permanent. I believe that the perpetrators of these and such crimes should permanently be prevented from getting any contact and opportunity to get a job, where they would have contact with minors, especially persons with special needs. I don't know what name the perpetrators of such crimes might call, because everything can answer to them except calling them people. In view of the parallel right, we can see that in Sweden and Great Britain there is no obsolescence for serious sexual crimes, as Germany has decided to raise the ageing threshold of up to 30 years. As a legal consequence of the conviction after a certain period of time, any perpetrator, unless he commits the same or similar crime, is deleted from the record of convicted persons, which would mean that we put them in the order of normal people, which they certainly are not. We can only send an encouraging message to the abusers that they can repeat such an act and hope for obsolescence. In Serbia, the average punishment for the perpetrators of sexual abuse was between two and two and a half years, and the highest sentence ever imposed was nine years. It's assumed that every fifth child is a victim of sexual violence. The foundation, program and goal of JS is to preserve the family as the primary cell of our society in its original form. There's a lot of attacks on family and false promises that there's a promised land somewhere, where everything is easy. There's enough talk of same-sex people living together. Unfortunately, this is about attacking children by people who have the most trust, their parents and close friends, and the primary goal is to destroy the family and society. I'm sorry that I have to stop and apologize to this high house for the words that I'm going to have to use – that such animals live among people, I apologize to the animals that I insult, because there is no such thing in the animal world, because they are the youngest who protect themselves at the cost of life. In all of this, we must also include digital violence, which is increasingly taking hold of both us and making big problems for parents, and thus also for society. This bill puts people, minors, using mass electronic networks in the way of trafficking. Every fifth child is exposed to digital violence. I will also refer to the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. In Article 2 of this Act, all criminal offences are taxed, followed by their confiscation under the jurisdiction of the verdict. The paper is introduced by Article 3 which also considers property to be good for every species in the Republic of Serbia or abroad, whether materially or immaterially, mobilely or immobilly, appraised or invaluable, high values and documents in any form proving the right or interest in such good. Item 2 – The property stemming from a criminal offence is considered to be the property of the owner who is obviously disproportionate to his income. For example, point 4 states that the owner is considered to be a defendant, associate, abandoner, legal follower or third party. Such a solution is wanted by the state or by the legislator and wants to make it clear to everyone that it is not worth the work of any kind of crime, because any unlawfully acquired good, wherever it is, will be taken away and that it will not be able to impose penalties undeserved and unlawfully and unlawfully acquired. The authorities that will conduct both the financial investigation and the directorate to manage the seized property are also determined. This law was necessary because so far we have had opportunities in practice for persons who have illegally acquired certain assets to transfer them to third parties or, worse still, to buy certain enterprises that were later destroyed. Such a solution will benefit the most from having the budget of the Republic of Serbia which will be able to help socially endangered society layers much more than ever before. I will also refer to the draft law amending the Law on the Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, corruption and serious criminal offences. With these amendments, the State has made it clear that, for example, at point 4 of the criminal offence, the abuse of the position, the liability of the person, referred to in Article 234 paragraph 3 of the prison sentence, has imposed a criminal offence – abuse of public procurement, Article 234a. Item 3, prison sentence and criminal offence – abuse of official position, Article 359(3) of the prison, when the value of the acquired property benefit exceeds the value of 200 million dinars. Point 5 is amended – criminal activity, terrorism, Article 391. The criminal code also takes new forms through Articles 393 and 393, which are criminal acts of terrorist financing, member of 393 and criminal acts of terrorist association, member of 393. In those changes in Article 16 paragraph 5 of the Law, the word "official secret" is replaced by the words "secret information specified in accordance with the law governing the confidentiality of data". Based on these changes, the state has decided to seriously deal with organised crime and corruption, putting them in line with the most serious crimes possible. the acts that represent the greatest social danger. I will repeat once again that in the day of voting, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14213	After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14214	I'm advertising a breach of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure and of Article 108. Mr. President, earlier, as a paratrooper, one of the MPs came into the assembly, talking like he was eating hot kegs and talking about something that I said, and I didn't even mention it. I did not grade, nor did I mention the name Snezana Malovic, nor did I say that she is incompetent, that she does not know how to write laws. Are we fighting crime and corruption? Of course we're fighting. It is clear to all that zero tolerance is both this government and the assembly majority behind it all, but you have let something that is not the subject of an MP speak at all. Is the theme of car burning after Vranj? I can figure that out if someone's talking about eating burgers from their kiosks, so they poison themselves or aflatious milk drinks in too many quantities, and then they can come in here, drop off the card, and when it's gone, because I have to point that out, because all of our MPs, when they get out of the gym, take the card with them. Some who go to the board don't take it because it's in the building itself, but it's the mistake of some people who are just learning how to be an MP right now. That's no intention at all. Therefore, on the day when this is decided, I will reluctantly, but I will indeed ask to see if some MPs can behave in this way, to enter, to speak something that is absolutely not the subject of the agenda and to lead this assembly by making fun of all of us MPs, at least there seems to make fun of us. Unfortunately, I think they're funny, even sad, and we're running away from a topic that's very important. The Minister of Justice is waiting here to take his final word. We MPs from the ruling coalition, especially from the SNS, are waiting to hear the answers to all those suggestions we made. We've been very meaningful and I hope they'll be accepted. We will vote and pass this law, regardless of all these characters that appear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14215	Mr. Nikolic, I have to tell you, I really don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I believe that you have the right to point out this, but during your address on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have taken advantage of everything you have pointed out to the previous speaker, citing terms, expressions, and sticking to other things that were not the subject of the work of this congregation. I try as Parliament's president to make as little use of time as possible for the violations of the Rules of Procedure and not to be the one who causes it, because it is the President who can cause the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in the spirit of the debate of the National Assembly Members of the Parliament sometimes injure the Rules of Procedure to expand and speak more as a replica, and less as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I have warned many times. I really ask everyone, since it is a very important topic on the agenda, to talk about what the agenda topic is, about the laws that are on the agenda, and less about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, because I don't see that this is leading us to the National Assembly. Of course, if you insist, the National Assembly will declare that in voting day. Please, you can only say if you want the National Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14216	I'm not asking, because you convinced me and because you treat all the MPs equally with your peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14217	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14218	Mr. Chairman, I am partly pleased with your explanation and response to the advertising of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the MP, Mr. Nikolic, but only partially. Article 108 has been injured, where it is said that the work at the National Assembly session is the old president of the National Assembly. I may have been made of steltechnology, so I am invisible to some MPs, and perhaps aflatic milk leaves certain consequences when the opposition MPs are observed. But sometimes it's much better before you accept the heavy burden of condemning others, to accept the easy burden of condemning yourself, so that you take out cards, say, Mr. Cvian, there's up to you and then, before you see if I'm sitting in my seat or not, and I'm sitting down first to watch in your ranks how those cards are fighting empty for "Maria's Law" and for the other laws of the set of judicial laws. Maybe the smell of car burning in Vranj has a bad effect on the sense of vision, and I think it'll still work badly... (President: Please do not abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure as a replica. Thank you. I'm done. Smart enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14219	The People's Messenger Risticevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14220	I'm really gonna go with the Rules of Procedure. I'm advertising Article 103(2). - The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the President of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. Just minutes before the last speaker, Mr Nikolic pointed to the violation of Rule 108. So I believe that the next speaker, or that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, is because you have allowed the next speaker to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure which has already been pointed out, and there has been no speaker among them that this breach of the Rules of Procedure may appear. So, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I'm not going to ask for a vote on that, and I'm not going to turn this into a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14221	Thank you. I believe that the Rules of Procedure are not injured, given that the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is not about pointing to the same member, but rather about the essential substance of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, and for that, the chairman doesn't even have to take the microphone. It is enough not to act during the session, I give hypothetically, whether or not to act in the course of the presentation of one of the MPs, that by failing to intervene, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let me tell you, I think it's now the indiscretion of our Rules of Procedure. I don't think our Rules of Procedure has precisely defined how to prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure from end-to-end. We have a situation that the same member of the Rules of Procedure can now be contacted by hundreds of MPs to point out from their corner, interpreting what they consider to have been done as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is very difficult to define what the chairman can do in that case without jeopardizing the right of the MP to point to that injury. Thank you for understanding. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Cvian, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14222	Article 107(2) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. President, I really don't think it's right for the other MPs at a time when we're all trying, and especially you, to maintain one level of culture in this National Assembly, here's soon the code of conduct of the Members of the People's Parliaments will come to order, that certain MPs use names and last names and address each other directly because of what we're going out here, here to show the fellow who mentioned it, for a glass of water to bring. Here's the proof in my hands. If that's the level some MPs here want to maintain, it's obvious that they have no more ideas, no more programs, that they may not even have a party they've been elected to, so they have some other methods to serve, really please don't allow it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14223	I ask all the People's Messengers to respect the Rules of Procedure, not to address other people's emissaries directly. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14224	I'll bring it to an end. I just want to advertise Article 27 now. The Rules of Procedure, which says the President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, convenes its meetings, presides over them and conducts other tasks in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure and takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Nature has given us two eyes and two ears and one tongue to watch and listen more and speak less, for there can never be so much wisdom as stupidity can be kept silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14225	MP Mirko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14226	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, normally we will support this set of laws, especially these laws on the confiscation of property arising from criminal offences and organised crime and corruption. Why? Exactly because organized crime and corruption is the destructive tissue of the Serbian state and nation. There is no economic progress of our citizens without breaking this greatest evil of our society. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against crime and corruption is primarily a patriotic act of defending the country. Of course I'll say a few words about this law, so-called. "Maria's Law," many previous MPs have said. How many minors are threatened by sexual exploitation and abuse across Europe, it also shows that in 2010, the Council of Europe adopted the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Abuse, and in 2011, launched the "One Out of Five" campaign, which speaks in a picturesque way about the proportions of these serious crimes directed towards our children. Of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a previous meeting, ratified this convention in 2010, but not the standards contained in the convention are translated into legal solutions and good practice of professional work. To the truth, a law has long been announced that, in some ways, it would introduce some kind of register of perpetrators of these serious crimes, sexual violence committed against minors. Therefore, it is commendable that Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Selakovic, has sent us such a bill, together with the Government, to discuss it here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to adopt it very quickly, in order to apply it in practice and to contribute to the reduction of the number of crimes against half-freeness towards minors. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is a startling fact that the number of crimes against gender freedom towards minors is increasing every day. However, these days we have heard the data, through the means of public information, and here yesterday in the National Assembly, from some MPs, that the number of victims of these serious crimes is extremely large - one by three, i.e. that every third child was a victim of sexual exploitation and abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally think that such data is not credible, because in the recent past, and even today, they have been used to exaggerate these data, with the aim of Satanising the Serbian people from some NGOs. That's why I'm pushing for one such study by our state colleges and the Ministry of Education. If these data prove to be true, then the government of the Republic of Serbia should urgently bring in a programme of measures to prevent and combat this for the country and the people of dangerous evil. The most important role in this job should be played by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia, which should make an action plan to cover all the factors that contribute to the realization of content from the domains of the education of young generations in the spirit of human relations between genders, in order to reduce the number of possible perpetrators of these serious crimes, in order not to discuss their consequences, but to eliminate the causes. Therefore, in this bill of law, which has been delivered to us, additional measures are prescribed to be applied to persons convicted of criminal offences against semi-freedom committed against minors after a suspended sentence of imprisonment, and to establish special measures, special criminal records for these convicted persons. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in order not to repeat myself, I will not list all the measures recommended by this bill to us by the citizens of Serbia, but let me now quote Citizens' Protector, Mr Sasa Jankovic, which is that the Citizens' Protector submitted the former Justice Ministry to the initiative to amend the Criminal Code which would contain several proposals concerning the protection of the child of the victims of sexual violence, which are in agreement with the proposals contained in the Council of Europe Convention. The former ministry did not respond at all to the Citizens' Protector's initiative, and this is in the Citizens' Protector's Report. In 2012 the rebel and very good Citizens' Protector, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, again submitted a new initiative, the new justice ministry, headed by Mr. Selakovic. The new justice minister, according to the Citizens' Protector's report, Mr Selakovic responded, as a responsible man, to this initiative by the Citizens' Protector, with the promise that the first time the Criminal Code was amended would be taken into account and the proposals of the Citizens' Protectors, which has been done, and here we are doing this amendment to the law today. Finally, honourable MPs, what is important and we haven't talked about for two days here, is that our country, as democratically arranged, must have strong institutions of the system. Therefore, all measures should be taken through these institutions of the system to ensure such a social atmosphere that it will directly affect the reduction of the number of perpetrators and bring them down to the least possible extent, i.e. that these crimes will not occur. How does this social atmosphere come about? Normally to achieve education, which we have in the last 15 years, sorry, but expelled from schools, kindergartens, families, sports organisations, social organisations, political parties, state administrations – in one word, from society. That's why all the former governments and ministries of education are responsible. I must say that this Ministry of Education, even in the Law on Education and Education, did not put the word of education, but merely education. In the end, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you all to vote for these laws and rise above the party's interests. That way we'll at least contribute a little bit to root out these great evils that have hit our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14227	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14228	Dear Chairman, I am advocating Articles 106 and 107 and as regards Mr Cvian's discussion, particularly the relationship and the presentation of Mr Milivojevic. He said he didn't know if Mr. Milivojevic still had a party. Mr Milivojevic certainly has his own party, while his colleagues have both the former and the current party. When it comes to a card Mr. Cvian didn't take out of the MP's unit when he came out, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is that Mr. Cvian went to fetch water, but he didn't have to do it. He could have taken water from the O.R. In front of Mr Selakovic, there are two waters, one is not open and it is not even about "Jana", there is Serbian water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14229	Truth be told, there is an empty bottle of water in front of Mr Selakovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. I will knowingly, Mr. President, even if I am warned and punished, abuse the Rules of Procedure. Please... (President: Mr. Babico, please just try to speak within the Rules of Procedure, you cannot abuse him. Of course. The trust that citizens of the Republic of Serbia have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is worrying. Only 8%-10% of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have confidence in the National Assembly as an institution. With the judiciary, we are at the lowest level of trust in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will inform you that only 3% of citizens believe that parliament and all of us sitting in parliament think that we are not corrupt. More than 30% of Serbian citizens believe that every third citizen you met this morning when you came to work, that we are extremely corrupt. I ask you that what is not the subject of the agenda, that what the citizens of the Republic are not interested in, overruled, outsmarted, outsmarted, that we stop simply looking for a point of reference, that we seek and talk about a law that should bring together all 250 MPs, about something that will save some children in the future. Does it matter who went out for a glass of water, or does it not matter? Doesn't it matter to you that we leave Parliament to some future stimuli and some better people with much more trust than we do now? Please, let's act like responsible people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14231	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a farmer by profession, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a doctor, and I'm not even a college professor, but I'm going to advertise Article 103 of Section 1. "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly, if he considers it to be out of line with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it was done at a session of the National Assembly that is under way and immediately after the injury has been done." So, the gentleman who first advertised now in this series of violations of the Rules of Procedure, since no direct address is allowed so I must speak, did so with a delay in the whole exposure of Mark Atlagic. Therefore, he did not advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure after Mr Cvian was exposed, but 10 minutes after that, and I therefore believe that the chairman has deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing such a violation of the Rules of Procedure to be advertised. I'm not a lawyer. That's not how much I'm asking the Assembly to declare this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14233	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14234	Mr. President, I think he's a injured member of 40. The Rules of Procedure concerning the work of the National Assembly, which defines the rights of the Members of the People. I do not want to read this article now, because it is very long, but the MP has the right to propose laws, other acts, to propose authentic interpretation of the law, to submit amendments to the draft laws and other acts, but he does not say anywhere that by advertising the violations of the Rules of Procedure he can give us political speeches as if he were on the main committee of his party, not at the assembly session, and that he is telling us about the reputation of the Assembly, as he is and how much he is. It's as big as it is, because if some didn't sing in T-shirts and didn't come as ice cream in short-sleeved T-shirts and didn't play cell phone music here when foreign representatives speak, maybe Serbian citizens would be watching this parliament today with other eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14235	I ask all MPs to return to the agenda and allow me the right of Article 40, which is to propose a law, since I cannot obtain that right from violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14236	Dear President, Honorable Minister Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a series of announcements by the Rules of Procedure, some of which, I must admit, have been extremely pointless, let us try to say a few words at the end of this two-day debate on a very important set of laws, a bill of law, which is united in this debate. When it comes to the proposal for a law on confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, this is just another of the most important laws necessary to amend, both legally and essentially, in certain provisions, in order to combat crime and corruption fully and without impasse. The amendments are necessary because the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is already applicable to the criminal offences of organised crime, high corruption and war crimes, was adopted in 2011, so it is necessary to bring these two laws in line, taking into account their interlinkage. Also, amendments to the criminal code were made in 2009 and 2012, and it was necessary to update the catalogue of criminal offences for which the law on the confiscation of property stemmed from the criminal act was applied. This law, like other legal acts that treat this matter, is a good legal basis for fighting organised crime and corruption, and all citizens today in Serbia can see that this assembly majority and the current government have, as one of the main directions, the fight against corruption and organised crime. I'd say that's the best part of this government and that part of the government that gives the best results, which all citizens support. The most significant newspaper that this law provides, which I believe is very good from the human rights point of view in relation to the legislation that regulates this matter so far, is that it will be able to manage the taken property only after the justice of the court ruling. What does that mean? It means that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of assets is initiated within three months of the judicial conviction of a criminal offence for which the property may be seized under this law. This solution fully respects the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings, as it avoids the parallel conduct of proceedings for the confiscation of property and criminal proceedings. Under the current law, the process of permanent confiscation of property can begin already with the degree of the indictment on legal force, which is too early, since it is not known whether someone will be found guilty or not. Such an existing solution, to a significant extent, has led to the presumption of innocence, as it is very difficult to prevent the impact of the decision in the procedure for the permanent confiscation of property on the decision in the criminal proceedings in which the defendant is found guilty. What's also good, which is that this legal proposal, in addition to the crimes of organised crime and serious corruption, production and drug trafficking, crimes against humanity, against business, is an extended catalogue of criminal acts that will allow this law to be applied, and above all, I mean the crime of kidnapping and the crime against property, which means that the future cause for the confiscation of property will also be those crimes. Article 16 The proposal for this law stipulates that the competent authorities are obliged to take away property in the process from the criminal part of the water of honor and dignity of the owner. When we talk about competent authorities, this is what the public prosecutor's office and the court are thinking, as well as a unit of the MUP that will deal with the financial investigation and, of course, the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, which will receive greater authority from this proposal, so now it will be able to sell the immovable property by emergency procedure if there is a risk that they will fail. In addition to managing the seized property, he will perform and evaluate it and keep records of it. The Directorate will also manage assets that have been permanently seized and after the rightfulness of the solution for permanent confiscation. Since we must properly share this time left with our MP group, I will cut short and finally say that when it comes to the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, as a member of the Bosniak People's Party and as a member of the SNS, I will support this proposal. I wouldn't explain it, because I don't have time right now, but I'm also going to vote for this proposal, and for all these bill proposals that are united in this debate, in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14237	The word has a National MP Ljubica Todorovic Mrdakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14238	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, violence against children is not a new phenomenon, but unfortunately, it is becoming more common. In light of the increasingly frequent cases of rape and pedophilia in Serbia, I advocate a maximum tightening of penalties for the perpetrators of these crimes. Since in my professional work as a doctor, gynecologist, I have met with victims of sexual violence in the art of art, I can tell you that these are very difficult and painful situations for victims of violence, in one word, shaken. A timely social response to violence can greatly mitigate its consequences and therefore the state is determined to take legal and other necessary measures within its jurisdiction to prevent it, i.e. prevents violence against children and adequate punishment for perpetrators. The process of stopping child abuse is a fundamentally unique process of systematic and planned co-operation between institutions, bodies and organisations, where all have their clearly defined roles and contributions in order to create a basis for timely identification, collection and evaluation of data, halting violence and providing adequate social and family-law measures, which will at least mitigate the traumatic consequences and help prevent it. The proposed law will essentially be a mix method, like those in the world, which will keep such persons under control, because unfortunately we have a large number of returnees when it comes to these crimes. The essence of the law is to introduce preventive day-to-day control, and I think that we will be able to prevent in much part the repetition of crimes against full freedoms. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of a set of judicial laws in the voting day, as well as for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14239	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14240	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent and commit a crime against half-freedom against minors, that is, when it comes to "Maria's Law", I cannot speak on the legal side, I am not a lawyer, and a lot of great lawyers have spoken very highly of this bill in the debate so far. I can't even speak like a political man. I can speak as a parent, as a father of two girls of eight and of 13 years and as a man who is concerned, as well as, I believe, all of us who sit in this room, for the future of our children and for the safety of our children. I can speak as a man who's always in fear in the morning when I open the paper, the daily press, what will I find in those columns of the black chronicle and what new evil will we encounter. For this reason, I am glad that this is one of the laws that has brought us all together, because only voting for such a law in full capacity, the vote of all 250 MPs, gives a certain good guarantee that this law will do what the promoter and also the writer of this law wanted to achieve, and that is the general safety of children in Serbia. I listened carefully to the debate, listened carefully to the presentations of colleagues both yesterday and today and what had personally disturbed me, and used by my respected colleague, Mr Cvian, from the SNS parliamentary group, calling it, not for the first time, such a person with a mystical name – predators and more – sexual predators. I don't think that we should be mystifying such things, because the predator can't be Dejan Angelkovic, a displaced person from Prizren, who raped a 13-year-old boy in a hotel room in Negotina in 2011. A man like that can't be a predator, he can be a villain. A predator can't even be a 45-year-old S.S. from Kragujevac, suspected of sexually molesting his 14-year-old niece, and 10 years ago, he killed her own brother. It's full of Internet headlines like this. I want people like that, to call these things real names and get treatment in society, to match the consequences of what they've done. As far as rapists are concerned, they're at the top of the list of crimes with the highest rate of return. Those who committed the theft once, 77% of them will commit the same crime again, those who cheated once, 65% of them will do it again, those who sold drugs, 60% of them will do it again, and those who once committed the rape, 50% of them will do it again. That's why I'm grateful to you, Mr. Minister, because you've shown one quality that's not in politics, and that's that you don't have vanity. The law that was in the procedure of the previous meeting, in the same form you put in the procedure and now, and I am sure that in the day of voting he will be in full capacity and adopted. I'm sure it's a small, first step towards resolving one general security for all children in Serbia. The SNS will support all the measures required by this law. We also support mandatory reporting to the competent authority of the police, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, the ban on visiting places where minors are gathered, the mandatory visitation of professional counselling centres and institutions, etc. I don't want to convince this law that I'm sure we've all read it carefully. What worries me, I'm worried about two things. One is that there are no specific programmes in Serbia to work with perpetrators of sexual delicacies, and those from prison most often come out worse than they were. There are no special programs with perpetrators of such acts, they are located together with perpetrators of other crimes and only in individual cases have increased individual work with a psychiatrist. I ask you to consider, in the future, that the time they spend in institutions where they need to spend a longer period of time, so that that time is not spent, not only will the sanctions of detention, or prison, be carried out, but such persons at that time work, so that, when they get out of prison, they do not commit a crime again. But what worries me much more is the inertness of our society. I'll remind you, and I believe that a large number of MPs in this room know that in 1994, a law was passed in America called "Megan Law", named after a seven-year-old girl named Megan Canka from New Jersey, who was raped and killed by a multiple returnee. In 1994, and we are now in 2013. How much longer will we, as a society, learn from our mistakes? Isn't it cheaper that we learned from this law, that in the last 19 years, a law like this, based on which seven-year-old New Jersey Americans were killed, made a law? I'm threatened by the thought that such a law has been passed in these 19 years, that little Maria would be alive now. How long are we gonna be slow? How long until something hits us on the head? Aren't we able to step forward? Aren't we able to look at other legislation, look at other countries, look at their examples and go ahead of our time? It's too late now. It's too late for Maria. Big things start with small steps. This is that one little step. I invite you, Mr. Minister, not to stop. It's just this law that's not enough. Nice little step, but not enough. In some orderly countries, police are required to inform the neighborhood if a convicted person lives in their neighborhood and endures a rape sentence. We have to put a black spot on these people, we have to warn all citizens who live around them. In America, there's a Google map of marked places, marked houses and apartments where such people live. This law is a good step and I am grateful to you for proposing it. I am also grateful to the writer, grateful to everyone, and on behalf of my children, and on behalf of all children who will be more protected and secure in this way, but we just have to move on. What I'm glad about is that Mary will in some strange way, through this law and through safer children tomorrow in Serbia, continue to live. As far as the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, what I can say, and what may not be said so far, is that this law had one public debate, did not enter into an emergency procedure, this is an important law, that this law was done according to the recommendations of the Council of Europe experts, and that in the debate yesterday and today, I did not really hear any more significant objection to this bill, except that this law or the idea of that law, who was before, who it was. What is good and I support you, Mr. Minister, is that you and your associates continue to assess the value of the property that has not been done, to make a clear list of assets, to know where that property ends and to what purposes it ends. I also support the fact that this law treats, i.e. the scope of this law is extended compared to the previous one, and that seems to me to be the acts of kidnapping and anti-equity, which did not provide for a previous draft of the law. What I think is the idea of this law and what will be arranged is a significant area, property that has been taken away temporarily or permanently from the people who have committed criminal crimes, we must not put into one dark belt and have that property criminally available. This is a law that will regulate the rules on how to dispose of this property that has been temporarily or permanently seized. These are just game rules and I am sure that in the day of voting this law will not only receive SNS support, but also the widest possible support in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14241	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and a single search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14242	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, as I pointed out in the previous presentation, the DS parliamentary group will support "Maria's Law", which has already received a public name, regardless of which government has submitted it and which parliamentary majority will adopt it. I believe there is no dispute here that all MPs will vote for this law. I have no understanding for those MPs who tried to exploit the victim of a family with low politicization. It applies to all those who recognize themselves in this. I believe that Mr Babic's speech, which was made in the light of his address to the Rules of Procedure, has the elements of a politician who advocates totalitarianism. Chairman, we do not allow anyone to teach us any lessons in which we will speak and treat the National Assembly. We pointed only to a breach of the Rules of Procedure which was very clear. When it comes to the law of confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, I have to react to, I can now say, the harsh untruth brought today by the esteemed colleague Cvian. He said, in fact, that the previous government, namely the Directorate of Shrews, Sister-in-laws, etc. Assigned property from the Fund, which was taken away by committing crimes. Mr. Minister, that's what you should have responded to, too, since I assume you have that information. He also mentioned that five facilities were assigned to the government of the AP Vojvodina. Now let me tell you how these objects are used. One facility, about 700 square meters, is used by mothers of children who have had malignancies, and their children are located at the Institute of Health Care of Children and Youth. Because there's no room for mothers there either, so they're staying in that house. The second facility uses the Institute of the Student Centre for Sports and Educational Activities. The third facility is used by the town of Novi Sad, more specifically the Center for Social Work, where children are staying under custody. The fourth, or fifth facility, are two apartments, the benefits of the Children's Village, where the tenants who graduated from high school entered universities and were given the opportunity to continue their schooling in some better conditions. It's about kids without parents. So it's not about any scurvy, sister-in-laws, etc. My colleague, Homen, gave you an answer when it comes to the use of the car that was taken away in this action, in an action that took away property over 300m euros. So it's not good to get involved in half-truths, thinking it's not possible to get to the real truth. I'm saying, you probably own them, but you didn't want to publicize them. I think this is embarrassing for you and for your party, which you have tried using untruths to demean the work of the previous ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14243	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at the end of the day, practically two days of debate on these five judicial laws have come the time to sublime everything that has been said, that we may draw some conclusions, perhaps even ask the Ministry of Justice to pay particular attention to some discussions, because, we agree, there have been these two days and some very useful discussions, very much too much commentary. I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, over 100 amendments have come in total, there are very, very good amendments, regardless of what viewers who are watching this will see that there have been both very unfair and incorrect discussions. If we underline everything, I think it is clear that "Maria's Law" will be unanimously adopted, that all parliamentary parties will support that for sexual predators, or, as my colleague Babic, a sex offender, may be better off using that term, that we will all support keeping a special record, that their DNA profile and many other details will allow these same people to be recognized. It is good that all together we will support the banning of these sex criminals and predators to approach kindergartens, to perform the work that is related to minors, to perform public functions or to apply for public functions at any time, to travel abroad without the approval of competent authorities, or without reporting to the competent authorities. It is good that all of these individuals will have to report a change of residence and do regular treatment, regularly for a period of at least 20 years, to report to competent services. If we look at all the correct debates that have been conducted here in the Assembly, I think one cry, one plea, one wish, and I hope that the Government and the Ministry of Justice will have the hearing of that desire, which is to introduce that the crimes of pedophilia and the associated crimes will end obsolescence. So whoever did the deed yesterday, today, the day before yesterday, can answer in 20 years, and in 30 years, and in 40 years. There are several such amendments, it may be a little on the border of what the Constitution predicted, but it seems to me, let me say on behalf of the entire parliament, that it is the wish of all parliamentary groups. As for the law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, I think we all agreed, and for the viewers who follow, that it will obviously be and will also be broadly supported in the National Assembly, that it is one law which is logical to continue the law that was passed at the time of 2008, the former authorities, that it is a law that represents evolution, that it is good that the more precisely defined procedure for the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, which will be more defined by the procedure of financial investigation and which, to me, in particular, will be defined by the Directive for the confiscation of property, or the Directorate for the management of the property taken away, because it was clearly that so far, there has been a whole series of abuses, not to say and political abuses by the former regimes regarding how it has been taken away, as it has been used and continued. I apologize for telling my previous speeches to my sister-in-laws. Apparently, it wasn't given to snorkels and daughters-in-laws, but to political friends. All right, well, then this is probably more specific. It is obvious that during the previous regime, a whole part of this property, and especially business societies, I am glad that the minister of justice said that the team in connection with the lead investigation, was given in one non-transparent way to certain factors in the lease. It is good that this law, which is now proposed, provides that once transparent procedure and in the process if public settlements are necessary, that is, a procedure that offers more, so bidding, the property that is taken away will indeed be given to those who offer the most, and what is important again, and works of art to be given free of charge to museums. It is good that from now on the assets that are taken away will be used for schools, for hospitals, for kindergartens, not for private needs, or for some needs that are not clear to us until the end, or for, say, trade unions that are close to someone from the party or for some agencies that are close to the party or to the chambers of certain associations that are close to some of the parties. Of course, I would like you, Minister, to pay particular attention in the future to the use of the car because we obviously didn't get an answer to that question from the former regime's representatives. It wasn't the police who took certain cars, it was the Property Directorate. Knowing that some part of the gold has been taken away from the property, I believe there will be special debates about it, too. As for the amendments and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure, these are good changes. They are more technical, but it certainly is not technical in nature that trainees will be allowed to participate equally in certain trials. It is certainly a good thing that all lawyers will now be able to participate in trials without discrimination as well. It is the achievement of constitutional rights, it is the achievement of civilization norms, that is, in the extreme line, in most EU countries. No doubt, the SNS and its coalition partners will support all these laws in the voting day, all five laws, including the law confirming the agreement with Bulgaria on the exchange of classified information, but we are confident that most of the opposition, at least today we heard, vote, if not for everyone, then at least for most of these laws. It is only proof that the Justice Ministry is doing its job well, that it is proposing good laws, and we hope that during this session, there will be more law as part of the legal reform that has been inherited. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14245	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used the right of Article 96, want a word? No, I don't. Does Minister Selakovic want the word? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14246	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, says one folk Latin proverb "Quod Rarum, Carum" – What is rare is worth it. Indeed, rare opportunities and rare bill proposals are when you, MPs, as well as the general Serbian public, can find a common denominator, an almost unanimous opinion and take an almost identical view on certain legal proposals. These four laws – two in general, two amendments and additions to certain laws – testify that Serbian society and the Serbian legal system are certainly not a great system, certainly not an idyllic system and certainly are not an operational and efficient system. I will quote one of the impressions of Serbian criminal law, Serbian criminal law science, university professor Zoran Stojanovic, who once said that if we were to fully apply each of the provisions and every member of the Criminal Code, we would almost never need to novelize the Criminal Code, to introduce new crimes, and now I will say that we are also passing certain special laws, such as some of these laws. These laws came, on the one hand, from a mild criminal policy of Serbian courts that does not last for a year, two or three, but that lasts for decades, on the other hand, by the collapse of our legal system, on the third hand, by the lack of a satisfactory level of legal certainty that our citizens, which our country requires and for which it cries out. When you come to the ruins, the first thing you have to do is clear it up, see what you have, and then make a good plan of what you're going to do next. What I have just described in this sentence can be identified by the situation I am in, as the minister of justice and the state administration of the Republic of Serbia. What we've been doing for the past eight months is clearing up the ruins where there's what's whole, there's what's good and I have absolutely no problem saying it. There is a proverb of a man with whom I had a rare opportunity to spend several hours of conversation while he was alive, who cannot possibly apply to this government and this government, and it is one aphorism, in fact, Brane Crnčević, which is – before the war we had nothing, and then the Nazis came and destroyed everything. Of course not. Serbian society, regardless of all the troubles, all the difficulties, everything that has happened to it, is progressing. Maybe it's not so fast, maybe it's not so good, maybe it's not at that level that it's going to satisfy each of us and bring all of us in line, as this few legal proposals agree on us, but it's obvious. But why did I use this metaphor, and why did I say that when you come to the ruins, first clear it, see what you have, and then make a plan of how to proceed? Dear People's MP Dr Vesenovic said that some used low politicisation to build a political image on the horrors of a family, if I understood correctly. Of course I don't support it, whoever's behind it. Let me say that I do not support even the low politicization that some sometimes use over the horrors of a nation and of a society. Here I can freely say -- and one branch of government, which is something that was present in Serbia during a previous period. Why am I saying this? So far, you've seen that I have a practice that rarely when I replicate to the MPs, even when beyond all limits of decency they know that they abuse their time and talk about things that aren't the subject, but I take this as a big and connected topic. Coming up with the first bill of law, the draft law on special measures to prevent the committing of criminal acts against half-life towards minors, which, in the same text of the National Assembly, has been passed by the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have shown, as a ministry and as a government, that we have absolutely no problem with it, when something is good, who is a proponent of what is good. We had you here, and you're all witnesses, a few weeks ago, a debate on the state of food safety in the Republic of Serbia. The debate, i.e. asking parliamentary questions, was proposed by the opposition party, the ruling majority accepted it and the ministers came here to answer these questions. I think it's good, as I think it's good, and when the opposition party comes out with a bill or a bill of amendments and an amendment to a law, and the ruling majority realizes it's good, to put it on the agenda, so when it comes to an emergency procedure, that such a proposal should be considered and adopted. What I still want to point out, and I said in my opening statement, when we talk about the law on the confiscation of property arising from the crime, yes, then I said – it is a pioneer enterprise, it is, in essence, a good idea, but again it is a special law. Both of these laws testify that our society is in grave condition. If you need a lex specialis, that means you have a special situation, that means you can't solve this situation with existing laws, that means that your society, that your state, that your legal system is in crisis, because that you're applying existing laws to the end, you would never come to that problem. There was then a story on the next two points of the agenda, and these are the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure. Now let's remove one of the doubts that someone here seems to be gradually drawing on. Yes, we have announced amendments and additions to certain essential system laws. But let's just drop something that was present in Serbia in an ento period of more than two decades. Whenever a new government comes, it is expected that it changes some things from the foundation. Are you expecting a whole new law on judges? Don't expect it. Five years ago we had a set of brand-new big laws, entered their application overnight, and what did we get? We got this ruin I mentioned earlier. Don't play unserious country. For major changes, big countries have been preparing for years, sometimes even decades. You resent that there's only something changing. I fully respect and appreciate my colleagues and their opinions, from two parties, especially the need to change the Code of Criminal Procedure. But when you look at the amount of inherited problems, and the problems are huge, when you look at the number of criminal proceedings that are already being conducted under one Code of Criminal Procedure which I am not satisfied with, as you are not satisfied for a number of reasons, but very important reasons. But come on, start playing the game by one rule, then get to the 30th minute, so let's change all those rules. It is easy to get up and say – stop applying the law, give the 2001 Law. I'm unhappy, as I suppose most of you are, because whenever we went to major changes or a whole new adoption of systemic, procedural laws, look what happened in the past 10, 15, 20 years in Serbia, every time we got worse and worse law enforcement, every time. You mentioned the 2001 CAP. You know how many bad pages there are, like the one that's been going on since 2011. What's the problem? Bring a change of one member in one procedural law, one member. You need months for this change to take place in practice and especially for fellow lawyers sitting in parliamentary benches to know very well. Imagine changing 200 members or changing the whole law at once. Even if we change it, you know how long it takes every prosecutor to pass, every judge who acts in that matter in Serbia, to go through training and to start applying that code and its solutions in full force. It is mentioned and I refer to it, I am sorry that someone has read in some media that are likely to pull out of the context of some of my statements, to interpret them in the way that it suits them, to contribute to the sensationalization and estradisation of politics. I did mention a few days ago, at a public hearing, and a change in the Constitution. Yes, I said this - every country that joined the EU was forced before that to change its constitution. Is that something controversial? Is there a country that didn't do it? When Serbia joins the EU, it will join it. I don't see what the problem is. Are our solutions, when it comes to the constitutional structure of the judiciary, the happiest? No, I think they're worse than the ones that existed in the Constitution that was brought in in a very different time. Why? Because they deviate from our constitutional and legal tradition, because they deviate from what is essentially a state that in the 19th century alone brought the six constitutions that have been applied, which have been advanced for their time, that have separated Serbia from all of Europe and beyond Europe. It says again one Latin proverb "Plurime leges, corruptis republics" can, but also does not have to apply to the trend that exists in the modern legislation of the developed part of the world and Europe. But here's a law that we discussed today, about its changes and additions, and it comes in the form of a new law, because the National Assembly has thus defined the criteria of nomothtechnics, that when more than one half of the provisions are changed, then they cannot be amended and supplemented by that law, but by a new law, the law of confiscation of property came from a criminal act. It can be an example of this Latin proverb -- a multitude of laws, a more corrupt state. Why am I using this? Once, while Serbia was a much more regulated state, when the bill was written, when it was established as a proposal, our normative services, along with the text of the bill, also wrote drafts of sublegal acts. What's the problem with this law of confiscation of property arising from the crime? The law was passed and entered into force in 2009. It's really good. Imagine, for example, if we had this law in 2003, then we wouldn't pompously tear down thousands of square meters of some buildings that were made by criminals by means of a criminal offence, so we might be destroying evidence of the execution of crimes, but we would already use such a building for humanitarian purposes that were mentioned here so many times in 1991 or any other year, but what's the problem here? The problem is that there were no sublegal acts, the problem is that you, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament today in the debate have shown what the property that was taken away, the first thing we don't know is how much was taken away and what was the value of it and that's the first thing. The second thing, we have no clear rules on how this property is available, and that's what the ministry will do after these laws are passed, and it's already about making regulations, regulations and all sublegal regulations necessary for the good application of this law. Yes, it is true, indeed, some of these properties, some of the things, some of the money went for humanitarian purposes. I don't know if there's anyone normal in Serbia who can't support that. However, there are many assets and many funds that have not gone for humanitarian purposes. There's a lot that's completely unpublished. You mentioned yourself the size of a land fund that was taken away from one person who was tried for extremely serious crimes. How was that managed? To companies? Ask the former director of the Department of Management of Disposal of Assets, because this story about the calcification of gold and the fact that gold when it stands somewhere and loses value, that's the story I got from those services when I came on duty, because they told me, you know, it stood gold long in the vault of the court, so by standing up it lost value. These are alchemists from the former Justice Ministry, the most sustainable element in the natural system of elements, calibrated, the ultimate thing. So, yes, I am for the competent authorities to act on their legal authority, to carry out both investigative and investigative activities, not to interfere, it was my duty to inform them, to invite them to respond and they do it well, I am convinced. Why isn't this law still in place, and that question has been asked? Together, I join your question and I ask it to the D.A.'s office. They are competent to take care of it and I call on them today when an organized fight against corruption is being fought, when it increasingly shows that Serbia, however much we once suspected, has its systemic capacities, human potentials and all that is needed, it shows that it has them. They should have been woken up. They should have been given free hands and said, "You work within your constitutional and legal powers, so I call on them to apply this law as well." However, what I said earlier, the MPs mentioned some of the moving things assigned to some for use. What's the problem? The problem was that there were no criteria. You know, the Directorate is proposing to the minister, and the ministry is proposing to the government, and the government is making a conclusion as to which it assigns a thing that has been temporarily taken away from someone, not permanently, temporarily. Then this thing partially or completely destroys, and then the question is asked, be careful, hypothetically quite possible, tomorrow it's proved that the property didn't come out of the crime, who's going to pay back, to compensate for the damage that's been done? So it wasn't taken care of. Public procurement was not conducted at all in the management of the seized property management company. Is that good? Imagine if someone offered you a few million-euro asset, you heard me well, that someone company and you concluded with a contract in which it writes, the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets gives it and that person to manage it, both the company and the point. That person who is entrusted with the property's management has an obligation to temporarily manage the property, but the Directorate has no obligation to it, absolutely no obligation whatsoever. You send that contract to your public defender, and he says, in the form of this contract, we have no objections. Such contracts were concluded from 2009 to mid-2012 in the Directive on the management of confiscated assets. When you ask the person who concluded that contract with the Directorate, I'm sorry, and what's your benefit from this contract? Then this man looks at you first, and he puts his head down, and he looks at the floor, and he says, "I've been promised something." Then you look at how that face managed that property, about multiple faces, and you can freely ask for that information and you will also get names. Let's not jeopardize the investigation. I'm talking to you about what's been found, which is what the situation leads to when you want to apply one law, and then you give for humanitarian purposes something I support you to give, but give it by some rule, bring the rulebook how it's done. Where there are no such rules, it's an open door for corruption, it's a wide open door for corruption. Don't tell a story then, we're taking away from criminals, playing Robin Hood, but we're a little Robin Hood, and we're a little good party or I don't know what kind of buddy. As far as I'm concerned, you can, when you want to come to our ministry, yours, all of us, the Ministry and the Department of Trusted Property Management, look for any information about how it was done, businessed since the end of July, or August 2012, and you'll get it all, but don't think that's the situation with what happened before July 2012, because it took me a few weeks sometimes and a few months to get that information as a resolution minister. What led to that? It brought illegal business, the use of gaps that existed in the law, led to a business that was not meant to know either about the party, or about kinship, or anything else, but exclusively about the rules and the law. If we have a situation that after three years of effective law enforcement we didn't have a list of assets that were taken away, how many of those things were taken away, because I have the right to doubt, which are not registered at all, which ended up in another person's apartment, in another person's pocket, in another person's company, in other people's capital, because there's no citizen of Serbia who doesn't support the adoption of one of these laws and who doesn't support that there's no telling what's what, to know how the state works. I am glad that, besides citizens, they recognize their directly elected representatives in the National Assembly. Let me say something else that I think is extremely important, it is said that it is small technical changes of some laws, and if something is a small technical change, then it could have been without it, and those who think it could have been without these changes, that they were able to propose these changes, and not propose them, would have faced the situation that, when we brought in a new criminal act of abuse of the official position, they defined a new criminal act by the responsible person, explained to the citizens that the property that was taken away, precisely because of such crimes should now be returned. You will allow, these are not technical changes, these are very important changes, because the consequences of such changes would result in great damage to the entire legal order and legal stability. Expect what I said earlier at the beginning of the presentation – not to let the ministry appear, me as a minister or this government with a man in hand and destroy everything that has existed so far, when it comes to the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecution – expect a constructive approach. You know, auto-projection sometimes really makes big problems, because imagine a man who would work if he was in the right place to do something, and then often criticises it from that point of view. In the end, let me look back at some of the things that I think are important, which are mentioned in the debate. I said what I had on so-called. minor technical changes to the law. It is mentioned that we have an unsettled judiciary, that we have long been in criminal proceedings. Do we have an unsettled judiciary? Is there anyone amongst you who will say that we have arranged justice? I'll say it first - we've got an unsettled judiciary. I don't have a problem saying that, but I have a problem with what it is. And in order for that same judiciary to be arranged, dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it takes much more than the mandate of a government and any minister of justice. The continuity of state policy is needed, there is a need to support the independence of the judiciary, there is a need for non-abuse of power and position, there is much that has not been present in some previous mandates, especially in one. Now conditions are being created, and as suspicious as you are, not in this building, but in the National Assembly institution, about 130 years ago, when a debate was being held on the construction of the first railway in Serbia, there was that part of the opposition that claimed that there would be black grass from smoke where the railway was going, so the cows that were pasture the grass would be giving the black milk to drink our children, and those children would become black and unhealthy. Thank God none of this happened, but Serbia got its railroad. I'm more than grateful to my critics, because if it wasn't for them, it's possible my motives for good work wouldn't be so strong. That's why it's a good thing there's no one's brain and there's polarization in position and opposition. But there's a limit of taste in everything. Telling me here that I've chosen the acting president of the Cassation Court is an utter insolence. There's no more appropriate word than that word. The first person to insult me, second, was offended by the entire Supreme Casation Court, because the judge chose the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court, not the National Assembly or any individual. He was chosen by most of his colleagues. It was chosen by most of the judges elected in late 2009 and those not elected in late 2009. If someone takes into their mouth the very top of the judiciary without being able to reciprocate, in the same way, at the same time and in the same place, in such words, it makes it unwise and completely unfair. You tie a man up and start slapping him, and then you're in front of the public playing the big hero. I didn't dare speak for a single time, speak for my fellow citizens, about what was said yesterday, but this is the same session and I'm talking about the same things, and as the minister of justice and the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, I have to react to something like that. Whoever was in such a place, even the predecessor of Judge Milojevic, has never, for my professional treatment, experienced criticism, because I appreciate the function and value the state, and to bring out such ugly and unfounded stories here, is at least like what I said. It was said that I personally publicly demonstrated the way I handled the ministry when I supported extremists outside the House of the National Assembly. I think that story has been told more than once, and I'm glad every time it's mentioned and here, in advance I invite those who called me to just keep saying it. Because, very dedicated, very valuable and very nice, they make my popularity among people bigger because it just seems that a small group of people believe it's extremists, especially when from that small group of people single out one and come to a gathering of these extremists and support it. (President: Minister Selakovic, I ask you to return to the agenda topic. I'll be back on the subject, Madam Chairman, but this is all said yesterday, and then no one has warned anyone to come back on the subject. I waited until the final word to look back on it and say something about it. Finally, I would like to commend, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that despite these dark moments, this debate at the House of the National Assembly has been one of the best discussions ever. This unity of the Members of the People on some suggestions, continuity in good, is something to be commended for. Your barbecue in the discussion, the number of registered speakers, the number of amendments submitted, among which is indeed a large number of well-intentioned, good, legally possible amendments, testify that you have all responded to the call of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration and have become involved in something that I think will bring good to all of us, our whole society, the whole state and all citizens. I call on you to be that whip to the executive authority that should be the National Assembly when we come into a situation where we apply these legal solutions. Without your help and without the help of the whole society, many of these legal solutions are difficult to apply. That's where we all have to get involved. Special laws require special application, require special environments and require special human attitudes towards them. That's what we all need. If we weren't in a state of emergency in society, we wouldn't even need emergency laws, but we wouldn't even need emergency behavior. I thank you for this debate, as well as for the support that, from both the ruling and the opposition parties, has come from these draft laws. I thank those people who have shown in the previous ministry the desire to get rid of something like this in a good way, as I express my regret that they have not only had a good wish but also good solutions and good action in some things that have led to much greater consequences. I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that as you took part in these discussions, you take part and you have a constructive approach in all future debates which I hope, in just a few days or weeks, await us under the vaults of this same assembly. I invite you to take part in the debates in the draft strategy for judicial reform, on the draft anti-corruption strategy, that is one roof, one hat and for these laws that we have discussed today, and that what will happen here in front of the entire public of Serbia because television cameras are only one constructive, quality and good picture of the whole previous debate. Thank you for the opportunity to hear such a good debate. Thank you for the opportunity to realize that our Parliament, as well as our Government, is making progress every day in every respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14247	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled Single Search on the draft laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11 of the agenda. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Labour Law You have received a bill submitted by the MP Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as a whole, shall be discussed in the principle of parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the MP's representative, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14248	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to the latest census in Serbia, we had the opportunity to see a sad fact that natural growth in Serbia is negative. We don't have kids anymore. Serbs are an old people, but a dying people. It's the truth that's been around here a lot, but it's very quiet. It's silently spoken, and it seems to me that it doesn't seem like it's backwards at all, not pointing out that someone is specifically guilty, because I think we should talk about what we can do here. The results of the census show that every year we lose the town the size of Vrsac or Apatin, perhaps even Pogorec, and that in many places in Serbia, children are almost no longer born at all. It's terrifying that, compared to 2002, almost 311 thousand of us today. In the labour market, a negative contribution is made to discrimination against women. That information is extremely worrying, especially when a woman comes to work. He's facing the question of whether you're going to get married, whether you're going to have children, whether you have children now, and on this basis, it's often decided whether she's going to get the job or not. It's something that happens to us every day in this country. An unauthorized question about family planning has had a drastic impact on the fall of birth. Giving up motherhood in such a way is a terrible crime against our future. Changes in workplaces, cancellations, premature termination of maternity leave or irregular payment of maternity leave benefits are problems that women, mothers, pregnant women and maternity mothers encounter daily and, I think, not enough talking about. On the other hand, we are very often faced with quite often used paroles and flossulas that we need greater birth, that we need greater pawnage, that we need more children, and that we are not ready to do enough. For example, there's only one number of babies who's lucky with parents who are rich enough to have a nice beginning in life, so they can get presents regularly, packets, have a normal life. On the other hand, it often happens that one part of children has no chance of having a normal childhood in terms of the most normal needs of life. Pregnant women and mothers don't only care about their families. They must be the care of the state, but they also care about all of us, because it's not a matter that we can easily ignore, and it's not a matter that needs to be easily understood, someone else will do it for us. Each of us must take a step that is a contribution to help solve this problem. I'm not saying we're going to solve it overnight, but the first step has to be done, followed by the next step, and we're going to show this Parliament's clear intention, and I'm sure all my colleagues will support it, that we're taking this problem very seriously. With the proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, which refers to the status of women during pregnancy and maternity leave, the absence for the care of children and absence for special care of children, we should influence the improvement of the existing legal solution and improve the position of employees of pregnant women, mothers and parents at all. It means greater concern, greater security, preventing discrimination against the work of pregnant women and maternity women, at all. Employers will not be able to fire women who are working for a certain period of time or decide after the work contract expires, even though the woman is nine months pregnant, not to extend the contract. Although under the laws we want to change so far, they have the right to do so, I think this is just as much as being directly fired. The consequences are the same. There are a number of cases that have come to this National Assembly and the Committee on the Rights of the Child, where mothers complain about employers' behaviour, where they complain about the non-treatment of certain state institutions, where they complain about the very difficult situation in which they are sometimes found. We need to look at the whole picture and find a solution that will help solve it comprehensively. It's not just the Constitution and the law. This should also be about our inner feeling, our sense of morality, that this should not be just a letter on paper, but something that we will all, and especially as the National Assembly, look sharply at and protest when this law is not being implemented. The adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws that I propose to our domestic legislation will also bring into line with the 183 Motherhood Convention, which Serbia ratified in 2010, but also with the expected amendments to the EU Council Directive 92/85 on the introduction of measures that encourage the improvement of the health security of pregnant women, maternity and breast-feeding women, before the EU itself does so. So, on this case too, we can show that we are a country that really cares about the standards, the standards of its population, and we show concerns that so far have not been shown by many countries that are more developed than we are. Article 1 The draft law shall be complemented by a part of the Labour Law governing maternity protection in accordance with the provisions of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood, which provides that a woman should be entitled to one or more days' breaks or to a reduction of working time of 90 minutes. The 44th term also defined the right of each employee to have a 30 - minute break, which would be 120 minutes for the maternity child in total, so that she could breastfeed her child and, during her working time, deal with her child, who in that way would feel much less the absence of a mother. Of course, it is those women who decide not to use all 12 months of maternity leave, or leave for child care, but to return to work, wanting to return to work in a shorter period of time and work on their careers. So, once again, let me just define - that supplement applies to the addition of the provisions in Article 44. The labour law, which has been forecasting a 30 minute break for every employee of the Republic of Serbia. So this is an extra 90 minutes. I'm not with my proposal, and we might be talking about it in more detail when it comes to the order of the amendment, I didn't predict exactly when that break can be used. For what? Every case is individual. I have consulted with a large number of women who have already had that kind of problem, women who have recently given birth and have very small babies, women who have more children and their experiences say that babies are completely individual, that their rhythm, even in the first three months, can I say and a year change and you can't predict today whether the baby will sleep in this period or whether it will sleep for two or three hours, whether it's up in this or that time. It's something a pregnant woman, a foster mother has to deal with an employer, and our job is to keep an eye on it so it's not a letter on paper. Article 2 in Article 1 is amended to date as regards the position of Article 2 of Article 187, according to which the person employed during pregnancy, maternity leave, absence from work for the care of the child and absence from work for the special care of the child, who founded the working relationship for a specified time, may cease working relationship after the expiry of the period for which it was founded. We've had a few difficult, tragic examples in the last few months, and in the next few years, I wouldn't even count, if even women who have one small baby, 12 or 13 months, 15, 16, and the other on the road, in the eighth or ninth months after the end of the labor contract had ceased employment. This woman who needs to concentrate on raising her child should now worry about having even in that year's existence. How does it affect a child, how does it affect her, her mental stability? That's the thing we have to worry about. The objective of the amendments is to provide staff with general protection for the cancellation of employment contracts during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and leave of work for the special care of the child, guaranteed in Article 187(1) of the applicable law. This change will not damage even employers, because the payout during maternity leave, the absence from all the numbered care of the child is carried out on the burden of budget funds. The employer is obliged to make payment only for the first month, after which that amount is refunded. The employer's obligation is also limited to the expiry of the right to leave. What does that mean? This means that the employer will have to extend the work contract within the 12 months and that the contract will not expire until the 12th month, to say – from the moment of delivery, so that the maternity child will have legal protection and employment for all 12 months during maternity leave, or leave for child care. I think that's the point we have to accept. There are not so many women who remain in a different state today, so should we not give protection to that small number that is employed under the labor contract? We absolutely have to give them protection, especially in cases where employers don't care about it at all. We must, of course, protect the country's economy, but having children is something that is a priority. If we don't want to protect our future, then the question is, what kind of country are we going to live in in 20, 50 or 100 years, what's important to us? In the second subparagraph of Article 2(3), additional protection shall be provided to employees in case the employer disregards the prohibition of the termination of the contract for work during pregnancy, maternity leave from work and child care and the absence from work for special care of the child and it is said that if the maternity child delivers evidence of this to the employer within 15 days, then the termination of the labour contract will become void and withdraw from the legal range. We're in addition to protecting the family. I propose that this law be adopted by emergency procedure in order to stop the wave of discrimination against the harmful consequences that remain in Serbia as soon as possible. I'm not saying it's the only thing that's going to stop this and that this is a crown solution that's going to solve all the problems, but it's an important first step. A step that will send messages to pregnant women, maternity parents, mothers with children that both this parliament and this country want to take care of them, but they will also send a strong message to employers that we are watching how the law will be implemented. So I invite you all as the National Assembly to take an active part in following how this and all other laws are being implemented, not to allow anyone to play the law, to look for holes in the law to deny someone the right, to show that child care, about mothers, employees of women is something that this country insists on. On the other hand, we will ask companies and employers to have awareness of the moment we are in, to call on their social responsibility, and I appeal to them not only to be governed by law, to be guided by morality, to realize that quitting is a pregnancy or to give birth to a crime. One or two more employees won't destroy the company, but they'll save a family and that's something we have to appeal to and ask employers to understand what's causing this law. This is the beginning, and it is our duty and obligation, but I expect us all to be involved in the next procedures in the adoption of new regulations, new acts that will ensure that guarantees for mothers, children and the future of this country are as firm as possible and lasting. I thank all those who have helped their suggestions to improve this text of the law. I thank all those who, with their suggestions and encouragement, have become a new hope for all the people who have these problems today and I thank all my colleagues with hope and the expectation that when it comes to voting on it, this law will have full support and full consensus of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14249	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14250	On behalf of the SVM Group, allow the President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office, to present our opinion on the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act. As we emphasized in our SVM election programme, it really wants to contribute actively to the construction of a normal state, as we have formulated it. We sincerely want to live in a country that provides its residents with a standard of living consistent with the European citizen. We are in favour of building a health and social system that is first based on demographic parameters. We expect a full and comprehensive reform in the area of social security to be carried out recently. We consider it necessary for all of us and the legislators to put first the motivation of childbirth in the making of social security regulations. As we have heard in the opening statement of Mr. President, the legislator of this law, one of the biggest problems for all of us is that the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, among other things, the duchy Hungarians is constantly decreasing. The main reason for the population decline and ageing is a very low level of birth. We believe that this is why it is necessary to develop a comprehensive comprehensive strategy to encourage birth and stop depopulation, not only to discuss various documents and strategies, but to sit down and create an applicable document that should have effective assistance for both families and mothers with children. We're all aware that the practice of the so-called family supplement is such that it's mostly improvised ad hoc solutions, how to when. Sometimes when a baby is born, I talk about the first child, the Republic gives a certain amount. Earlier, those living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina received from the AP Vojvodina. Since this year they're not receiving. Last year, there was a problem, babies born by September, those parents received a supplement and those born after September did not, they expect to get it later. So we think that these improvised ad hoc solutions are not good, but that if a really good strategy is built, it should be replaced by a long-term, predictable family support system, that young parents simply know what they can expect, what kind of help from the state. The family is the basic cell of society and only balanced families are capable of building a healthy society. As I have already mentioned, the real, sad picture is that, unfortunately, children in the Republic of Serbia are getting smaller and smaller, that abortion numbers are huge, especially the number of abortions among younger women. As women, we have had the opportunity to listen to a lecture at some seminars and it is truly devastating that we only had official data on intentional terminations of pregnancy from official state clinics, and probably there are many more in private clinics and that not so long ago, several years ago, the official number of intentional terminations of pregnancy, abortions and live births in that year was almost identical. The real situation in our country is that women, especially those highly qualified, educated, are all later on opting for birth. Many have very serious difficulties in harmonising their family obligations with their business. Some of them are simply forced to choose between motherly obligations and their careers. Taking into account the circumstances of these staffed women and the need to ensure the protection of pregnancy as a common obligation for all of us, both state and society alike, it is necessary to regulate several areas more adequately, such as the right to financial compensation during maternity leave and leave due to child care and child care. These intentions, first of all, should be paid regularly, and the amount should be such that it really ensures the maintenance of the good health of the mother, i.e. the wife and child, with an appropriate standard of living. Another major problem that the esteemed promoter did not talk about, since it is not specifically about these changes, but the situation is that not all pregnant women are in a position to have a healthy and easy pregnancy and many of them have to be on the so-called maintenance of pregnancy or on sick leave. We've already talked about this problem in this esteemed home that the state hasn't been able to solve yet. It is planned, but there are no adequate means and those who are on sick leave, i.e. maintenance of pregnancy, generally receive 65% of the salary. It's really not right that in Serbia today it still doesn't matter if she's pregnant from Belgrade, Jagodina, or if she lives in another municipality. We think it is necessary to improve the equality of women in the workforce, as well as the health and safety of mothers and children and the development of the protection of motherhood in our domestic rights and practices and these proposed changes and additions, which we will certainly support, are just one step towards that. The right of mothers to maternity leave is something basic. This basic means of protecting the health of the mother and her child, or what, perhaps less, we are talking about, the right to maternity leave can have not only a mother, but a parent, meaning either mother or father. The right of parents to this maternity leave is a means of protecting the family. I'm very happy to finally be in the National Assembly talking about the right to breastfeeding, because I don't think we've had a chance to talk about it here. The right to breast-feeding is generally extremely significant, and especially breast-feeding after returning to work, especially in cases of return to work before the end of a year on maternity leave, because breast-feeding is a very important part of the protection of motherhood. Breast-feeding is extremely important for health, first of all for the health of the child, including the mother herself. The World Health Organization recommends, if possible, that the baby be breast-feeding for up to six months and with adequate complementary food even for up to two years of its life. That's why we really need to secure these breaks. In an ideal case, it would be good if it were to talk about this time period, working hours longer than six hours, let's say, eight hours, it would be ideal to provide two breaks, so that a woman could really double her child. So, as I said, the SVM parliamentary group certainly supports this proposal, although it may have been better, as the promoter said, that it might be more specific, because the proposal contains one or more breaks, so do we mean one or more breaks? The total duration has been proposed here for 90 minutes. We suggested, since in conversation with these mothers, when it comes to two breaks, then it would be ideal if we had 120 minutes or two hours to do so. The promoter gave an explanation that when we add up 90 minutes and 30 that already exist, then we get to that 120 or two-hour number, but I think women of the sucklers should have lunch, because those half-hours have to feed. We've proposed an amendment. We'll talk more about him when we talk about this law in detail. We think these breaks should be counted as regular working hours and paid accordingly. I must stress that journalists have already asked today whether it is applicable in Serbia, whether employers are ready to apply these provisions of the law. We are here to say that this is a matter for employers and that we hope that the law will really live in practice. As you said, Mr Stefanovic, from the proposed changes and additions some things are not quite clear, or unequivocal. It can't be seen whether a daily break or a daily break is proposed, whether she is breast-feeding that break, or whether or not she gets it on her own request, means whether it's mandatory or she has to make a choice, whether she has a right on her own, it's not clear, that she's looking for one break or two breaks, means that she decides for herself. Does she decide for herself whether, instead of this one or more breaks, as you suggest, she simply wants a cut in working hours, since it is in the proposal itself? I guess you were thinking that the nurse would decide for herself, but I'd like you to clear that up a little bit. What we haven't talked about and what's not in the proposal is, and I guess it won't be because there isn't, whether employers will be obliged to provide rooms for personal hygiene, so the rooms where babies would be breast-feeding or most likely, and I guess the second case, thinks that mothers will take advantage of these breaks, this time, go home, give up the baby and come back. Maybe that's why we should have thought of two longer breaks. From here you can't see where that breastfeeding is going to be done and if someone's going to bring the baby to the workplace, if there's going to be adequate conditions, rooms. There's a lot of misunderstanding. The opinion of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, Ms Nevena Petrusic, who arrived in the National Assembly, seems to me yesterday or the day before. Just these proposed amendments to the Labour Act, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality also proposes some specificities. She says specific rules should be proposed, for example. for working mothers whose working hours are shorter than six hours, because we've only been here based on those who work longer than six hours or, interestingly enough, we haven't really talked about it, we haven't thought about it, but it's not too late until the law is passed. Consideration should have been given to longer periods of time for mothers who had given birth, for example. twins, or even more than two children, as well as those who have prematurely given birth to their child and what is missing are fosterers who also need to feed the little children they have adopted. It's important, in addition to the ban, to cancel the labor contract. We did not discuss, and it is a very important question, that when a parent, mostly a mother, takes advantage of maternity leave and returns from that maternity leave, it is extremely important that she return to the same workplace, or at least to work with the same conditions and, of course, with the same salary, immediately after returning from her absence. It should have been regulated somehow, that a woman or a man, I also like to say to a man, although we know by statistics that no matter what this possibility exists, in the Republic of Serbia is an extremely low percentage of those men who use their right to maternity leave, that they return to the right job, with the same salary. Unfortunately, the practice is usually such that a parent, mostly a mother, a working woman who returns from maternity leave, either earlier, or after 12 months, is mostly assigned to another job, a less paid job or an inadequate job, so I appeal that it may have been necessary to think about the fact that the law explicitly recognises the right of an employed parent that, when he returns from maternity leave, the employer simply has to ensure that this person does the same work that he did before going to maternity leave. Of course, there's a possibility, and we'd probably invite employers to this, for example. In the meantime, it should stop the need to carry out these tasks, but it should also find a solution to offer jobs whose conditions cannot be more unfavourable than the conditions of those previous jobs that they did before going to maternity leave. The absence from work because of pregnancy or parenting should also not hold anyone back, as you pointed out, in the development of a career, i.e. to be a distraction, let's say, to select more calling, to advance with professional training, as well as the basis for the deployment of inadequate jobs and cancellation of work contracts. I would also point out here what is being discussed in our public a little bit, and what mothers themselves suggest from experience with babies, that after a few months they would be very happy to go back to work, perhaps for a start in part-time, so-called. "Part-Time Job" and that possibility exists in our Labour Act. Unfortunately, living practice is completely different, because in these situations employers are obliged to pay full taxes and contribute as if it were full-time. Of course, this seems completely pointless to them and discouraging, because of invaluableness. The guarantee for pregnant women and women after giving birth to not losing their jobs is a fundamental component of the protection of motherhood. It is extremely important for pregnant women and mothers to know that their work will be preserved. I would like to underline and really point out that motherhood must not be the basis for discrimination in employment, including the possibility of employment. The original objective of these proposed changes is to ensure that these pregnant women, who were designed for a certain period of time, are provided general protection against the cancellation of work contracts, both during pregnancy and during maternity leave. This change, as we have heard, is good that it will not harm the employers, since the payouts will go to the burden of the budget. As someone actively participating in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would just like to remind myself that the Republic of Serbia is a member of the Council of Europe and that some of the 47 member states are not EU members, and some have not introduced a joint maternity leave. Perhaps in the near future we should also consider introducing a divided maternity leave for parents, introducing a few months that fathers would need to take advantage of. There is a significant difference, precisely because of this, in the Member States of the Council of Europe, between the salaries of men and women, and later pensions, precisely because women, believe in other European countries, face difficulties in returning to the labour market. Of course, this is mostly postpartum, maternity leave. It's harder for them to find a job and get back to less paid jobs. That's why they've got these less outages in their careers, less pay, and therefore lower pensions. I stress all of this precisely because women are completely discriminated against on the labour market. Let me round up, LSV will support these changes and additions. We are pleased that together with everyone, I suppose, we can participate in a change, including improving legal solutions and improving the protection and position of employees of pregnant women, mothers and parents. I sincerely hope that there will be no problem in implementing this law in practice. Of course, we will work together to monitor the implementation, but we are aware that not all employers will accept these proposals and probably hear some criticism. We hope that these solutions in the future will really ensure better protection of motherhood, greater job security for pregnant women and parents, that they will reduce the differences in employment between women with and without children, and that they will simply prevent gender-based discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14251	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14252	Thank you for your constructive suggestions and thank you for your support. I'd like to say I'm happy we're passing this law. Actually, I'm unhappy that we have to bring it. I would be much happier if these negative phenomena in Serbia didn't happen, that employers are aware that parents, pregnant women, mothers with children, parents at all, people who have special needs, that we don't have to point out the importance of keeping these people at work. I'm terrified not only of what's happening on the world level but, above all, in Serbia. Women are much less paid in the same jobs than men. That's a hard fact. I'm terrified that they have much worse jobs than men. It is difficult for me as a man who wants to believe that this is a country that has decided to meet certain standards and whose society is ready to accept the ideas of modern Serbia. I'm sorry that one law and a few members of that law can't fix it all, but I assure you completely, I can speak for the SNS I belong to, my party is fully prepared to work with everyone else, to build a more successful country, economically stronger, which one day will allow much more separation for pregnant women and maternity parents, much more money for children. I wish we could give them a bunch of money today. I wish they didn't have to work for two or three years to devote themselves to their children. Unfortunately, the state can't do that today, not SNS' fault. But we're fighting to fix the situation. We are fighting and we are trying to make this country more economically powerful, that even when it stands out for pregnant women and maternity mothers, and that is, whenever it is singled out from the budget, from the budgets -- it doesn't matter whether it's the Republic or local self-government, it's by budget means, by all of us. No one grabs their own private pocket to give something to pregnant women. We're all helping them. I'm not talking about individuals, we're talking about the care the system shows. That's why I want us to build a stronger state that will be able to meet all social needs economically. I fully support you in some of these suggestions. As regards breast-feeding, i.e. breast-feeding breaks, I said in the proposal – they have the right to one or more daily breaks during daily work for a total duration of 90 minutes, or to shorten daily work time for a total duration of 90 minutes. Since there's such a difference in companies, in terms, whether the company will have a room to separate for breastfeeding, how it will arrange it, whether it will fix it, whether it's more convenient for a woman to leave her job, live nearby, so it's much nicer for her to go to her house where she'll feel more comfortable to give up her child or the company may have to separate a certain room, which is the same. I wish we had a kindergarten here in Parliament, I think more parents could play with their kids and people who work here, but these are the things we have to work on. I wish I had a magic solution for everything, unfortunately, I don't. I'm trying to fix the current situation, but please give everyone else a solution, suggest, take steps to make the situation better than it is today. Let's take the next step! I fully support you. I'm ready to stop and vote for every proposal that leads to it. Believe me, I will be an MP, like all my colleagues in the Assembly, who will always raise their hands, vote for proposals that help, strengthen the position of mothers, parents in general, and of course children. As for going back to work, that's the thing we're going to have to talk to the employers about too. There will be a need for audits, there will be a need to include inspection bodies, there will be a need for the Assembly to be interested because we must not show indifference, our vote in the voting day. It's not the end of this story. We just gave them the prerequisites to fix things. Our control, our attention, our concern, our interest, our pressure, if you will, will be the right instruments to ensure that these women, mothers, parents, children get all the rights they need in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14253	Thank you. Elvira Kovac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14254	Thank you. Very short. Mr. President, I totally agree with you, but I think it's one of the basic things that we need to economically strengthen women and if they are economically independent and stronger, then they'll probably make it easier, faster and in time, and have one, two, three, maybe more children. The other problem is, I know that you can't solve it, that's what I was talking about when there was a respected health minister, that today a large number of medications that are needed just to keep pregnant women off the list of medicines. They have to pay for it. So they should use them in various quantities and that means a lot to some. So they take a box of drugs that lasts for two, three days, and they have to use it either in the first trimester or until the end, and it's not a small amount of money at all. The other problem I was talking about is because I came from Michael, or I live in Zrenjanin, that the organisation of health institutions in Zrenjanin needs to be resolved. One single women's counseling center serves all women of the Central Bane County and pregnant women who have opportunities to go to a private. It's horrible! So, women have been paying for health insurance for years, and then they go to the private because the doctors, the nurses who work at that counseling facility, are like that, that they, especially pregnant, can't wait for hours and suffer everything they come up with. So there's a lot of problems, but let's try to get together from small steps, so let's work on it. As far as kindergarten is concerned, I fully support and I hope that in some form we will find a solution, because that would really be an ideal example. Even women don't think they're talking about it, we don't need a hair salon here, we really need a kindergarten.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14255	Thank you. MP Bojan Kostresh has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14256	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, colleague Stefanovic, the LSV parliamentary group will vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act because we believe that he is in the spirit of constitutional principles, according to which in the Republic of Serbia the mother should enjoy special protection, as well as special support both before and after childbirth. We think this is a good step, but only if it is the first step in solving this problem because, as you said in your opening presentation, in Serbia and in Vojvodina, the government of the "white plague", 311.1229 Serbian residents, between the two lists, is less between 2002 and 2012. In Vojvodina, it's about 115,000, so it's my native Zrenjan. It's a problem to face this high house and try our common forces to solve it. Let's try to solve it that way, just give it one perspective and just a question of pregnancy and everything that goes with pregnancy, with birth, a postpartum period, don't look at it like so far on many occasions, unfortunately, viewed as a disease, but as one situation that goes in favor not only of the development of our society and our country, but of the families and all of those values that I hope all of us stand for. That is why I think it is necessary for us to try to agree on this in this high home, although it is very possible that we will have very different views on certain legal solutions and on certain proposals. Pregnant support is necessary. I'm going to mention one case that is known to our public because the funds of public information have dealt with it, but I'm personally familiar with a few more situations. I am sure that there are many such situations in Serbia and that we have to resolve it. In the past year, three women were fired at the Toza Markovic factory in Kikinda when they remained in second condition at the end of the traineeship. What's strange is that our legislation has reacted in a way that is unusual. Of the three cases that were the same, two were in favour of these women, one was against it. So Tamara Jurkic and Vesna Sivčec got a positive verdict, and Suncic Alexic got the verdict she lost. So I think this bill and this Article 2 of your bill will help solve this problem and that these situations no longer appear because I think it's important that no one can be discriminated against because they remain in a different state. We must, as the highest legislative authority in this country, simply make it clear to all employers. Of course, we must also take care of their interests, but in a way that the interests of pregnant women are not compromised. We're talking about this problem here. I can't help but recall that this high house, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in December 2005 made one great injustice for this part of the population we're talking about today, which, it seems, we all want to be constructive and help. At that time, the Health Insurance Act decided that maternity leave compensation related to maintenance of pregnancy from 100% of the salary would be reduced to 65%. I think it was a very bad and very negative decision. I know that according to current legal solutions, this injustice will be corrected on 1 January 2014, but what about the previous eight years? What about all those women and pregnant women who were in trouble and who couldn't get this fee the way they were supposed to, according to LSV? To show and illustrate the impact on these women and these families, I will read the data of the Republic Statistics Office in November 2005, where the average earnings in Serbia at that time were 18,697 dinars. Suppose, for example, an observed woman who went on maternity leave to maintain pregnancy has that average salary, her income of 65% full salary was 12,153 dinars at that time. The minimum consumer basket at that time was 14.784,59 dinars and an average of 23.941,37 dinars. This means that these women could not adequately finance their needs because they were able to meet only 50.7% of the average consumer basket or 82.2% of the minimum consumer basket with their salary. This is one great injustice that has been done to all the women who have found themselves in that situation. I hope that this congregation will never again be able to make such negative decisions. At the moment the law was passed, I had this honor and responsibility to chair the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the AP Vojvodina and the Vojvodina administration made great efforts to influence the republican administration, at that time, that this, according to us, had a devastating and bad decision to change, but unfortunately we had no hearing from our colleagues here in Belgrade. Unfortunately, we haven't had the opportunity to solve these problems on our own, and we've come into a situation where women are thus disproved. So I hope that in the coming period, we will have the opportunity to make decisions, legal solutions that will benefit this part of the population, as well as other groups in our society. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is trying to overcome this problem through a series of initiatives, besides trying to influence the Vojvodina Assembly at a local level. That can't and can't be a problem and a question to deal with local self-government. It's good when local self-government, as the city of Novi Sad, the municipality of the White Church has done on our proposal. In Kikinda, Somboro was made decisions that were somehow tried to overcome the problems, but that's what my colleague Olena will talk about. It is not good when we have to get into a situation where, because of the poor legal solutions adopted by this parliament, local self-government must be able to correct these mistakes. It was not only a solution in Vojvodina, it was also done in Belgrade, Jagodina and other municipalities and cities in the central part of Serbia. What I want to send as a message is that it shouldn't happen. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is ready to support this law on amendments to the Labour Act. We think this is a good start. We hope that, regardless of all the political differences that exist between us, we will succeed in achieving a number of issues that are relevant to our society and the state, and that we will be able to achieve agreement and a result that will be in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Stefanovic, if you, your colleagues from your parliamentary group or any other parliamentary group propose such and similar laws, you can expect us to have full support and constructive co-operation. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will try to influence and make its contribution through legislative activities. We hope that this parliament will have more ear for the proposals coming from the province of Vojvodina, but also from small parliamentary groups. I think it's the only way we can work together in favour of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14257	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14258	Madam Chairman, Mr Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the SPO has been campaigning under the slogan "First Family, Family First". We wanted this campaign to point to a catastrophic demographic situation, a catastrophic decline in the birth rate, and it seems to us that the topic of whether or not a gay parade will be held in Serbia, how it will pass, who will be against it, was more prone to the media topic and more engaged than this topic, which is much more important. As an MP in this parliament, I have asked the government several times, pointing to what the demographics say, as SANU says, which is what everyone who deals with this problem, which is that this government has to do what many previous governments have not done, that it must take a number of steps to improve the situation of the family and improve the demographic situation in Serbia, within the competence of almost every ministry, which is extremely bad. Several times I pointed out what the promoter said, which is that, unfortunately, in the last 10 years in Serbia, in 360 villages, no child has been born, that demographics suggest that if the state does not take a number of comprehensive measures, in the next five years, it will disappear from the geographical map of Serbia 25% of the village or 1,200, that we are, by the age structure of the population of the oldest European society, that we have more persons older than 65 years than 15 years. It wasn't that problem that came up yesterday. In Serbia, insufficient births have been recorded since the mid-20th century, especially since 1971 when 20% of birth rates were lower than the need for a simple reproduction of the population in Vojvodina and about 15% in the rest of Serbia. Lowly natal areas especially occur in the 1990s, where a clear drop in birth is characterized. Only from 2000 to 2005 did we have in that era hope, justified hope, that Serbia would become a normal country as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to reflect on its social situation everything that is good in the most developed countries in the world. We had this slight increase in birth, a rise in birth rate. However, it is precisely a series of measures taken by governments at the time, from catastrophic privatisations, from the disastrous Labour Law, from the disastrous relationship of people who bought enterprises, above all, to workers exposed to various unpleasant conditions and conditions when getting a job. One of the usual questions – if you plan to have children, tell us openly. That went in the direction - we won't take you into a working relationship. There were other examples, positive examples, but they were lonely and I can point out a positive example from a prominent Kragujeving private company. The worker passed all the tests, went through all the interviews, proved to be the best candidate. On the day of her working relationship, she came to the employer and said she wouldn't be able to start working because she stayed in a different state. The employer congratulated her and told her – good luck to you, you were admitted to work and to give birth to as many children as possible. It should be in a moral sense behavior that should be common, but unfortunately not. It's not because of what I pointed out today when I was talking about another topic, and what the SPO has been pointing to all these years. This isn't just the government's mission. This is the task of institutions, the task of the media, the task of all people who influence the creation of public opinion. We're parallel to, I say, this strong campaign, whether or not there's going to be a gay parade, we have on national TV shows that promote something else. I think the Ministry of Culture and the competent ministries and the RRA must take a number of steps to prevent the sending of negative messages to the public. I say, we've had more promotions of the moment of truth, where various mental patients have appeared in the advanced phase of mental illness, than birth promotions, from the promotions of the help of pregnant women, maternity parents, from the warning that the catastrophic situation in terms of demographic discharge is even worse since 2000 in southeastern Serbia, in eastern Serbia, but also in my Shumadia, as well as in the more developed Vojvodina. Therefore, the SPO and the DHSS will support this with both hands, but they expect other ministries, and that is why we also said to the Minister of Agriculture, just pointing to its portfolio and to the ministry's obligations to take what other agriculture ministries have done to keep the population in the country, to prevent demographic discharge, and that primarily concerns greater incentives. In developed European societies or our neighbouring Slovenia in the countryside, you have homes of health, infirmarys, mail, kindergartens. The situation in Serbia is different. These are all good measures. These are very good incentive measures. This is a good message that we're sending to the public together, but if everything stays on these terms alone, we won't have any significant improvement in the situation in this area. At the same time, in 2008, we adopted the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children and the Strategy for Incentives of Birth, which had eight directions and 70 individual measures. However, somehow at the same time as this strategy was adopted, the global economic crisis and many planned measures have not been implemented. And in the previous government, I also pointed out to the Minister of Health at the time that it was a shame for the state that one media house "B92", every honour to the B92 media house, I want to show them thanks, as well as the B92 Foundation, which was still running the campaign and still running the "Birds' Battle", where they provided over 100 incubators, but we felt that this was primarily the obligation of the state, and then the moral obligation and various foundations and media houses, but also what was forgotten in Serbia, and what was adorned by large and prominent traders, businessmen, industrialists before World War II - mustership, employment, foundations, voluntary contributions. Here and across Serbia's cities today we can see buildings, here we are in Takovska Street where the Assembly of the Municipality is located, which is the Foundation of General Srdjan Sredkovic. In a village near Cačka, the village of Bresnica, the school is the responsibility of General Marko Katanic. Not to talk about Ilia Kolarac's assignment and all other duties throughout Serbia. Not to talk about children's homes, poor kids without parents. There was even a positive competition between industrialists and wealthy people who thought, if, thanks to society and the state, they had acquired a certain wealth, that it was a shame not to give it, at least one part of the wealth, for humanitarian purposes. This kind of promotion, this kind of return to normal Serbian right-wing Serbia, we expect from this government as well. Of course, this law on working with all its shortcomings, and the shortcomings above all concern the very provisions of the law and these changes to the very poor position of maternity and pregnant women, but they also concern the total inertness of inspection services, primarily services, or inspections dealing with work relations issues. Do you know how many times, I believe, all of us MPs had examples of a pregnant woman or a foster mother getting fired? She spoke to the inspection service, was often fired with a violation of the law, but what? The inspections either don't respond or react late or they're uninterested, and the births and pregnant women were the only ones left with a long and uncertain court dispute, which I believe will be in a small amount with these changes. No matter what the Labour Act now, of course, promotes and supports both maternity leave and childcare leave for child care and childcare with special needs, which we have one-time care for maternity care, which we have children's allowances etc., it seems to me that, given the great demographic and birth problems, this measure will only give its full effect in the fruit with all other government measures. Someone here also mentioned taking off the positive list of medicines that pregnant women need to maintain their pregnancy. There is another measure that can be taken by the health minister within the scope of his responsibility. From here I want to send a message to the Minister of Health, that she too, not only the Minister of Health, but all the ministers within their competences are doing everything that needs to be done so that we no longer have after each census, not 31,000 less inhabitants, but if it continues like this, we will have a lot less population in 10 years than we have today. On the other hand, the measures of demographic policy need to prevent so much inflow of the population in cities and the emptying of the village, because only demographics estimate that Belgrade gets between 40,000 and 50,000 people on an annual level, which is a great pressure on jobs, on living space, on traffic, etc., and on the other hand we have completely emptyed out areas. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia believe that every government and any government that cares about these ordinary citizens, about their daily problems, which has this one human relationship, where a citizen feels that the state is caring for him, has a chance to do something serious, has a chance to be respected, has a chance to regain the state's reputation. What is visible in our Parliament and, I think, for every praise, it is that from year to year this Parliament is becoming more and more serious. Let's not forget, until a few years ago, we had everything and everything here. By 2000, even many MPs came armed to parliament. Therefore, this is all a good way to create a serious state, to build a serious system that can help and raise birth and improve the position of women, as well as all other measures of policy and foreign policy and by removing all obstacles on our path to the EU. By bringing investors and economic strength to our society, we can expect the result we should expect. The World Health Organization in the definition of health, in addition to that of physical and mental health, says economic stability is also needed for the health of the population. Economic stability is also needed for pregnant women during pregnancy, because let's not forget that this penetral life in the womb of a mother is very important. It's very important if then the mother is in a good mood, whether she's economically safe, whether she's in the mood, for psychophysical and all the other future development, and especially later when the child is born, when she comes to this world. The economic situation, the pleasant environment, the positive messages from society, the positive messages from the family have the best impact on the healthy psychophysical development of the individual. Since today was the theme of the so-called. "Maria's Law," and social psychologists and clinical psychologists indicate exactly that these neglected personalities, neglected children, children who have been exposed to various abuses and abuses, unfortunately later go to the other side of the law. It's from this kind of population, unfortunately, most of the ones we talked about today are in a negative context. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia will never have a problem with all positive initiatives from either side in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14259	Here you go, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14260	I would take the opportunity to thank Mr. Chicago for the correct and concrete suggestions on future steps. I think that's the thing to think about, therefore, not only about changes to the Labour Act, but about health care, of course, to equalise pregnant women in terms of their health care and in terms of financial obligations they have in the process. As you know, it is not the same part of Serbia that you live in and is not the same health care in all health institutions, and that is something that we will all have to work on together. Simply, these are the changes we have to insist on, such as these changes to the Labour Act that effectively prevent discrimination against women, which in fact allow them to have a normal working relationship. As you've well noticed, it's not just after childbirth and in prenatal periods, so when a woman needs peace, stability, when it takes one feeling, that she's at least sure that work will wait for her, that she has this job in a period of time until she's born and nursed a child. Of course, you know what's going on, what's needed from postpartum funds, from various medical products, equipment for children, diapers, special food, food, milk used as food, and that's huge expenditure, and that's where we have to find ways, and I think we should all think about the next budget of the Republic of Serbia, we need to make an effort to find the resources that we're going to target into one of these kinds of help. What if we don't protect the future of Serbia, women, children, mothers, pregnant women, if we don't do that, I think the question is whether this whole thing makes any sense, everything we do. Thank you for your constructive suggestions and for your correct exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14261	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14262	Madam Chairman, Mr. President of the Assembly, the legislator of this law, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, primarily mothers and women, those to whom this law is intended, when we talk about this law, is not the question of whether the JS parliamentary group will support this proposal. That's understood. Why? Because ever since 2004, when we started a party, we've been dealing with these kinds of issues right now, and wherever I have the opportunity to show our influence in the local government, we're doing it in action. An example of this is the city of Jagodina where more children are born than the Republic average and where unlike a large number of cities and municipalities, the white plague cannot cope with the program we are implementing. I liked the title in the paper these days when we didn't call this the labour law, i.e. when Mr Stefanovic said this is a law on the protection of pregnant women and maternity and with these changes, I think that's exactly what we're doing, and that maybe it's one of the most important laws we've voted recently, because it's a law that fights for Serbia, fighting against the white plague. Unfortunately, today we're talking about women who are in a working relationship, and a lot of them don't even have a chance to get a job and we need to ask the system what's going on with them, how it's solved in cities where JS has some influence, I'll tell you in the course of my exposure. Statistics show that more than 93% of the cases were fired from the labor contract, just caused by the use of maternity leave. What I'm about to read right now is somehow the simplest thing that we do today and what's important, what citizens need to understand, because now that I'm having a discussion, I'm getting a lot of messages where people are asking what it is that's concrete that we've changed these changes. So, by adding a new member of 93, by changing Article 187 which implies that pregnant women and maternity parents, as well as parents who use leave for the care or special care of children, can't be broken off by working relationships, and those to whom the contract expires during that period will have legal protection. This means that the contract will have to be extended by law enforcement, as long as it lasts maternity, maternity or maternity leave due to the care of the child or special care of the child. A new member of 93a predicts that the employer is obliged to provide a parent during the first year of birth with one or more breaks in the total 90 minutes or a 90-minute work-time reduction that she would use for breastfeeding, child feeding. This applies to families returning to work before the legal deadline of one year ends. So, the old law we had so far, as someone before me said, was about some legitimate protection for those who are working directly to destroy Serbia. I don't mean to be too harsh in calling employers who have wronged the law, but we have to be realistic and honest, and when we talk to them, that the woman to whom the contract extends several times, does her job well, and then when it comes next time, and she shows up with her employer pregnant, it's her only sin. If it is a sin for a woman to be pregnant in Serbia, then it is not by any chance that all this is happening to us. Personally, I think this law is one of those little mechanisms that can trigger Serbia, precisely in what is our biggest problem, which is the fight against the white plague. At this point, the view of the Single Serbia is that this is no longer a more important question whether we are going faster or slower towards European integration, at which rate we will solve the issue of Kosovo, because if we do not solve the issue of the white plague, all these other issues become irrelevant and simply have no one to do it for and for whom. I am also sorry to forget very quickly the pre-election promises of all of us sitting here in this congregation hall. I am someone who, along with his colleagues in front of his party, worked the campaign, visited a large number of cities, and met colleagues from other parties there. What was symptomatic is that everyone in the campaign is going on and on about the fight against the white plague. I didn't notice that after the election, everyone stays on that line and deal with the problem. What I want to brag about and give others the will and tell them there's a chance, it's not the time to expect you to expect all of this to be done by the state, that it has to be done by a system. This is one of the moments and system solutions, and it's the law, but all those who deal with politics directly and indirectly, and now, above all, I'm talking to the mayors, the presidents of the municipalities and all of us who are in this room, and it's no problem that we all go after this example of Jagodina and just achieve what Jagodina did, and that was the will of the local leader who had the opportunity to manage their own policy. In 2008, I was fortunate to be involved and to be part of an executive government in Vrnjačka Banja where I come from and we had a simple desire to try to reflect what Jagodina is doing with us in Vrnjačka Banja. Our budget is not a big budget, our budget is on average with all the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, but what we have, unlike many, is will, and we have had a way to reflect part of those programmes that are fighting against the white plague. I said just before that this system, this law, we solve a part of the problem, we solve the question of these women who are working and who have so far had that threat and have lost their jobs. When we remember that there are a lot more women that don't work at all, the way we can help them is exactly what we're doing in these two cities, that we've made such a social program that every woman who doesn't work pays for maternity leave. In Vranjska Banja, Jagodina, every child born of local self-government, you said that a little while ago, no one gives it out of their pocket, but this opportunity to give out of that one common pocket has everyone, but no one does. So for every child born, it gets 1,200 euros. For every child who goes to school, money is allocated to buy him everything he needs, so that he can handle those first expenses more easily and not be singled out from other children, perhaps intellectually, through work, but that on that day all children look the same, that everyone who finishes fourth, eighth grade and secondary school on the cost of local self-government go on vacations and a number of other things. So, we're not magicians, we don't have magic sticks in Jagodina, Vranjska Banja, or any other cities where we have JS representatives, but we're simply initiators that in the coalitions with which we're in power, we seek, we demand, and we pray, understand that however you want a program like this to be implemented. Those who live well at some point know how to say – this is the demagogy you talk about. But I'm telling you, it's a demagogy just because you might be living well, so you haven't had a chance to meet people who have a daily problem and people whose help, whatever it is, means a lot in life. This law is, among other things, a struggle for life. Someone mentioned "Fond B-92" a little while ago, which is also one example of not having to do everything in the system. The system's supposed to work, but let's accept that initiative, and that was my message tonight, at the end of this speech, which is that we're still fighting this law for life. The JS parliamentary group will definitely support this bill in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14263	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14264	The President-in-Office, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act which amends and amends this law, although there is a need for this law to be substantially amended. According to the Ministry of Labour, there is already an initiative that this proposal on changes and additions is being done in full. These amendments and additions to the Labour Act contribute to its improvement and therefore will be supported by the PUPS parliamentary group in the Voting Day by this law. We are particularly pleased with the fact that this law is being changed in the area of addressing certain issues concerning pregnant women and maternity care, because we are currently in favour of this category of our fellow citizens. In December of the month, when the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget was held, we submitted an amendment requiring the budget to provide funds for pregnant women and maternity parents and to provide them with 100% income for the whole period of maternity leave. This contribution was received by pregnant women and the birth of Belgrade and our intention was to place all pregnant women and mothers in Serbia in one equal position and all have the same rights. Unfortunately, there was no hearing about this amendment and pregnant women across Serbia have not acquired the same rights as Belgrade's pregnant women. We hope that the budget rebalance will correct this injustice and that pregnant women and maternity mothers across Serbia will have the same treatment of the Serbian state and will not be pregnant in the first and second order. These amendments and additions to the Labour Law provide a better position in the part of childcare through the addition of the Law to Article 93, which the employer commits to maternity care. I would quote that part, given that the topic is interesting and that the maternity and pregnant women follow this law: "The employer is obliged to provide the working woman who returns to work before the year before the birth of the child with the right to one or more daily breaks in the course of the agenda, for a total duration of 90 minutes or for a shorter working time of 90 minutes, so that she can breast-feed her child if the working time of the working woman is six or more hours. A break or a shortened working hours referred to in 1st century of this article shall be calculated in working hours and the remuneration paid on that basis shall be at the level of the basic earnings increased for past work. “ This supplement, that is, this addition of the law, provides an opportunity for the employer to think about the family and the child. Amendments to Article 2 of Article 187 of Regulation (EC) No 187 have been made to the status of pregnant and maternity woman since these changes do not allow the employer to be released after the period of employment, but the working relationship shall be extended for the duration of the absence. When we talk about this law, it should be noted that it is necessary to make substantial changes to the Labour Act in order to be applicable and sustainable. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the complex interests of three interesting spheres, in particular the state, trade unions and employers and the law are brought into line with European and international norms. It is evident that at this point there is a political will to solve problems and to change these laws. We have already highlighted some of our fears, how employers will behave in relation to these amendments and amendments to the law, and that is why it is important for this law to be substantially and comprehensively regulated. When changing and supplementing it, it must be taken first of all to ensure that the law is passed in the interests of workers and their rights. Also, it should give a full chance for about 750 thousand unemployed, as officially in the Republic of Serbia, and in reality more likely. Of these 750 grand, at least two-thirds are women. It is therefore important to think in this section about how women would first and foremost be able to be in an equal position with the rest of the population. Article 37 of an existing law that regulates the working relationship to indefinite times has been defined that the working relationship to indefinite time is uninterrupted or with interruptions cannot last longer than 12 months. There are various opinions and reflections and suggestions on the length of work for a certain period of time from the solution so far, from one year to three years, which is not really the point but should be achieved a fundamental relationship with people who are employed at a certain time. When it comes to working for a certain time, it is clear that there are young people who work under such conditions. They depend entirely on the will of employers and do not enjoy any protection. There are cases that people work for a certain time for years in this status, through various schemes of employers, formal change of jobs or making some breaks, etc. When we talk about that year, when we take, for example, one pregnant woman who, because of the specificity of pregnancy or birth in a one-year working relationship, has three or more working intervals, or on leave, are there any conditions for the worker to show all his abilities, on the one hand, and the employer to assess her options, on the other hand? This amendment to the law in that part is good, but it doesn't solve pregnant women's status indefinitely. Other laws need to be considered that, above all, solve the situation of pregnant women. We have put pregnant women in a humiliating position to be paid 65% during pregnancy or maternity leave, which is inadmissible, and our mouths are constantly full of white plagues, reducing the birth of children, extermination of the nation, reducing birth, etc. When we talk about these benefits for pregnant women and pregnant women, I am thinking first of all about the Health Insurance Act, which has been defined to be eligible during the use of leave due to maternity leave or maternity leave of 65% of the basic income. Last year, December of the month, we passed a new health insurance law and in the part of Article 96, where we added two positions and admitted the possibility of that compensation being 100% at all times. However, in my opinion, we have made one reckless gesture that we have put into practice this member to be from 1 January 2014. It is not good that we put a whole generation of young mothers in a position to be unequal compared to certain pregnant women in Belgrade. I think this injustice should be removed by budget rebalance. The PUPS parliamentary group, following this debate and debate in particular and the possible improvement of this law, through amendments, in the voting day, will support this law and will vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14265	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14266	Dear Vice President, Mr Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no doubt that your intention was noble when you announced, produced, then proposed these amendments and the addition of the Labour Act. I never doubted that for a moment. I'll also tell you that I've followed very closely everything you've done since some of your first announcements that you'll be engaged in this job, which came months ago. In that sense, me and the LDP parliamentary group can't say anything other than to praise your idea. What's the problem, actually my question to you is why did you decide to approach this business in this way and to go out on your own with a proposal for such an addition to the law? I don't think your motives have been controversial, but I think you've made it impossible for other political parties to get involved more actively in this and to come up with much more extensive and more effective changes and working legislation, and perhaps in the same package and a whole series of other regulations and regulations and practices that would allow all of those problems that are spoken of here today to be quite unanimity or, at least, most of them, a much more successful solution. Of course I agree with you that the position of a woman is general, and then especially young women, women who plan to become pregnant, those who bring them or those who are pregnant, is extremely difficult. Of course, it is no wonder in a country where there are almost a million unemployed, with a steady trend of growth and rate in the last few years, which has not been stopped in the last few months, in a country that has such an undeveloped economy, such an undeveloped economy, so lagging and almost ruined systems of health care, social protection, to a certain extent and education system, finally, Mr Stefanovic, I hope that we will agree, and society in which, regardless of the amount of money we have, there is still, unfortunately, no small degree of misogyny or willingness to discrimination women generally for various reasons. As you know, we adopted in this House several years ago as one of the European countries and a special anti-discrimination law. I am sorry today, as I was sorry back then, that not all political parties in this House then supported the law. Some of the political parties that today particularly insist on the need to abolish or as much repression as possible, rooted out discrimination against women, unfortunately then missed the opportunity to give their determination the most direct vote for the general anti-discrimination law. The Liberal Democratic Party as an opposition party and then, as now, voted in favour of the law. Of course, in the Law of Labour, in the Law of Education, in a whole series of other laws, we have to find mechanisms to prevent discrimination. Mr. Stefanovic, I think you're wrong when you're fairly close to these amendments to the law, especially this 187, which you're supplementing, you're looking at as a mechanism to prevent discrimination. There's a problem here. So, the current legal solution, which you want to change, in a practical sense in real life, makes it difficult for a woman to be in a position, but in the sense that discrimination or a ban on discrimination is used right, there is no discrimination. Something else can happen and that's why I'm worried about this law. Once again, I'm telling you that we in the LDP have been talking about this law for a long time, and we're going to talk about some more questions. I hope we can get some answers through this debate, but I'm afraid you neglected, especially in the intervention in Article 187. The labour law, the potential dangers that can exist and which, unfortunately, in a number of cases can lead to even more drastic discrimination against women, especially women in a certain age, younger women, women who have not yet given birth, and are expected to plan and simply find themselves in a lifetime when it is realistic to expect it. Why is that? You said in your explanation, which is why I initially told you that it might have been a better way to open up the debate on the wider front, so that this debate would be public, that it would not be the first in this room, where we all, in some way, address our voters or potential voters, but that it would be a kind of broader debate where the civil sector, NGOs, media, trade unions, but also relevant employers' associations. Mr Stefanovic, in the light of this bill, you said in one place that there is no additional burden on employers because this change of employer will not be damaged because the payouts are made during maternity leave and leave due to child care, regardless of whether it is regular or it is extra or special and otherwise not paid out of the employer's funds, but from public funds. However, you forget that from your formulation of attitude 2 or the change of attitude 2 that you are proposing, that the application of this extended working contract for a certain period of time is also related to the pregnancy of the woman herself. So it's possible that a woman's contract to work on a certain amount of time she concluded in the second month of pregnancy. It will, according to the provisions you propose, have an extended working contract all the achievements of the postpartum period. Procedurally, a year and a half or a little more than that. That period from the third month to the ninth month will be financed by who, Mr. Stefanovic? I think it's fairer then that taking care of the family, the mother, the children are still being run by the state, or, as you say correctly, the taxpayers, this is their money, and it's not coming down on the employers' back. Why do I tell you this? Not because I have a special sensitivity to the needs of employers, but because I think that the existence of such a provision will destimulate employers to hire young women and that you will have a practice that, especially in the case of a contract for a certain time, men, older women, that part of the population of potential workers who are not afraid of being subject to this provision. Then it's very difficult for the state to intervene. That would be discrimination, but the problem is that she would be indirect. As you know, it is the most difficult thing to prove such discrimination in proving discrimination. This is why we have so many problems today, you are right when you say that women meet different forms of discrimination when applying for work, but most of this discrimination is simply unproven or hard to prove in practice. No one in their decision to choose who they will hire or choose in the competition will indicate that it is because another candidate is in a different condition or expects to be in a different state quickly. That is why I think that, in particular, this second solution, Mr Stefanovic, the intervention in Article 187 has not been completed. Perhaps we could go this way, give some kind of conditional, temporary support to this solution, but with a clear agreement here that we will immediately open a serious debate on changes to the entire Labour Act, which is why it is still necessary. The current Labour Act is in one way a relic of past times and the past system. In it work for a certain time, i.e. under contract for a certain time was perceived as an exception and it was quite a rare exception. Mr Stefanovic, you and I, I also believe that the vast majority of MPs understand at this point that this has changed in part, and that this situation will change even more drastically over the course of time. More and more frequent contracts will be made for a certain time, at the expense of the traditional concept of working indefinitely. I think it was useful in this situation to open up the same changes to the law to the maximum duration of work for a certain time. I think this solution of yours would be easier to implement if, say, the limit to the duration of the contract for a certain period of three years or maybe even more than when it's a year. This is how you really create a situation where someone will stay on an extended working contract longer than the basic duration of the contract for a certain period of time. This is going to destimulate, and once again I am telling you on this case, the reception of young women in a working relationship, or the conclusion of a contract at a certain time, especially not precisely here. This situation, Mr. Stefanovic, in line with some kind of natural cycle, can be extended several times from this basic first contract, which lasted several months or up to a year and then you will have a situation that lasts several years, as there are now situations throughout the whole part, especially state and public administration. You're absolutely right, I would be happier, of course, if you'd brought out more numbers in your discussion, because they are truly catastrophic. Today, enrolment begins in elementary schools and in this generation of children who are about 74,000 future champions in 2013. Last year, between 65 and 66,000 children were born, an enormous loss in potential. You spoke correctly about the situation that a huge number, several hundred thousand people today are less in Serbia than it was on the list 10 years ago. It is not true that this difference, or loss, is only due to the fact that less is born, that is true, but that is not the only reason. A huge number of people have left this country in the meantime and are still leaving this country. If you see which countries they go to, you will see, Mr Stefanovic, that in many of these countries there are rules in labour legislation, say the rule of length of maternity leave and some other rights weaker, shorter, that there is simply a less level of protection than in Serbia, and those countries do not have a problem with the depopulation as well as Serbia, there are workers, and women as workers are more satisfied, therefore not all problems can be solved by such provisions. And you and I will agree that there were countries with a phenomenal façade catalogue of social and economic rights and that they are in a long period of time, and so in part today in some countries, it is, in fact, a society in which the degree of protection or exercise of these rights is much smaller than in those societies that we call classical liberal capitalism societies. So it's not the key to that. A colleague from SVM spoke about various tendencies, conflicts of opinion, solutions that exist in countries, that is the whole European continent, so the Member States of the Council of Europe, and we can, for example, to look at the rule of international organisations, let's say this Council of Europe, you will see that their internal rules regarding work and working relations have exactly this provision that you want to amend with this law, so that the contract, of course, can be concluded or that the work ends with a simple expiry of the contract, which is set at work, and I guarantee you that in this system women are much more willing to give birth and that some other benefits and benefits, the amount of earnings, all the things that are related to their rights are actually much stronger compensation than this one right that they do not have, and that our women will have after this. Another problem that exists, Mr. Stefanovic, in our system, is the question of actually paying compensation, paying women who are on maternity leave. So it sounds great, too, that current legal provision to refund that money, that the employer pays the first salary or first salary, but the situation is not so great in real life. There are serious delays in these payments, and they are, like everything else, always embodies with a real economic situation. Whatever legal standards, if there is no money, there will hardly be any payouts, or at least it will be hard to make regular payments. These payments were several months late last year, different situations in different parts of Serbia. Of course part of that problem is also related to some slow administration. You have devoted a significant part of your exposure, Mr Stefanovic, to appeals, above all, to the business sector, to the business world, to show much more social responsibility. I can agree with those appeals of yours, but I think we're basically different in terms of what's really an obligation and what's the company's social responsibility. So, the obligation of the company is, no matter what form of ownership they are, to settle their legal obligations, let's say they pay taxes and thus create conditions, among other things, and for this kind of protection or generally for every form of social protection. What is social responsibility is, however, a voluntary act of the company's business sector, however you will, cannot impose that obligation on them by new law or by amending the law. So, what are my key questions? Of course, this provision, which is related to Article 93a, is not absolutely controversial for LDP, we are fully prepared to support it, of course, that we think it may be necessary to add some more precision, but generally on the very idea, to the formulation, we do not even have any more serious objections, except at the moment that you were telling me that the key role of us, as people, MPs, politicians, parliament, is to take care of all state institutions whether it will be respected. I have not been able to verify now, I hope that you have dealt much more with this, whether the violation of this provision is actually covered by those final provisions, or by the criminal provisions of the law, in order to make it even more binding for the inspection and other bodies to take special care of it and then to impose such penalties in adequate legal proceedings. I hope you'll be able to give them that answer. So how will you prevent indirect discrimination that I hope, at least in part, have shown you the danger that it will happen when this law is passed? For me, that's the key question. Just don't let his application turn into the opposite. We won't be able to determine that, and we won't have any adverse consequences for a few years. That's why I told you it was better to approach much broader amendments to labour legislation. Other questions or misunderstandings are much less important to me than that. Col. Ranka Savic will discuss this law in particular tomorrow, partly from a different angle than I do. In one way and as a union representative who is most interested in the problems that exist, especially their members, which is more urgent, but I think that independent of that is the obligation of all of us, to engage in a comprehensive solution and not to choose from such comprehensive laws, only certain issues that we will be dealing with. And once again, I'm ending it, I don't think your ambition, when you approached this, was bad. I think you've missed the chance to make a much more serious move at this stage to achieve those goals you've outlined. One more if you can answer me, I think this part of the proposal that says that the evaluation of the financial resources necessary for its implementation, where you say that financial resources in the budget have been provided for the implementation of this law, please tell me where, in what way and in what amount, since it is clear that, by the end of this year, new financial commitments on the side of budgetary discussions will be created. I would hate to see there be problems in the application of the law because there is no money, as there is no money today, as well as the very broad catalogue of rights that exist, especially in the public sector through collective agreements, we have had to verify health books every few months ago. This is probably the biggest problem faced by women in this country, but at the very beginning of the process, that is, at the very beginning of the pregnancy. So, this inability to access elementary health care that is of crucial importance, especially in these most sensitive stages of pregnancy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14267	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14268	The situation is already very difficult. I'd say almost tragic. At this point, it seems to me that the discrimination against women in this society is so difficult that it can be much worse. Unfortunately, I wish I had come as an SNS MP to one situation – a country that is fully decorated, which is wonderful, in which all flowers and only certain small changes, changes, additions, should only be improved. Unfortunately, I think the situation in Serbia is very bad, especially economically, and that's the thing we have to fix in order to fix everything we've been talking about. Of course, I don't expect this law to solve any problems, nor these changes and additions to the law. I have defined myself for this matter, because as chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I have had the opportunity to get to know myself for the last few months, as well as my colleagues, with a huge number of objections, complaints, correspondence, writings, and in the press and in the direct address of people whose rights in this area have been directly compromised. Perhaps as someone who was more sensitive to this, I decided to say this matter, and as you yourself said a few months earlier, had the opportunity to consult other colleagues, to present this in the media and, of course, ask for the government's opinion, to seek the Committee's opinion, and to receive a solid support in all these talks. Of course, I'm fully aware that this isn't ideal. I am fully aware that there will be opportunities, not only for the amendments to this part of the legislation, which now protects women, mothers, maternity, pregnant women, however you will, but of course for more comprehensive work on amendments to the Labour Act. As my colleague in JS said, we had a much bigger problem with those women who don't work at all. Of course, in this part of the question, where we talk about potential discrimination, based on the provisions of this law, it certainly needs to be very careful. However, if we pass laws, let me say, whose application we will not monitor, so we will be able to assess the effects of this law much earlier. I expect, when I appealed to the employers, I did not appeal to their morals and social responsibility in the part that is their legal obligation. I don't urge someone to pay their taxes. It must by law and there are competent state authorities who are there to determine whether or not they are doing so and there are certain mechanisms that they must force themselves to do so. However, if someone builds a child's breast-feeding room in their company, if they decide to invest funds to make that room more beautiful, more comfortable, more comfortable, if they decide to build a garden or park in their backyard, it's something that can improve the position of these mothers with children and that's the social responsibility I appeal to. Also, to meet in these arrangements, to come out more and more to meet. You know, someone can say you've got 120 minutes under the law, I'm giving you 200. To this I urge them to be aware that helping these pregnant women and mothers is not helping us who are in politics, not helping the legislator, not helping someone on paper virtually, it's helping their colleague who works with them at the firm, who raises a little baby. It's something that seems very important to me. As for the obligation of employers, after the first month of the pregnancy leave, the Health Insurance Fund pays, and the maternity leave is paid from the position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. These are the positions where the funds exist. The only extreme increase would be if someone had already factored in that all women who remain in second condition would be fired tomorrow morning, or that their number would be so drastically... I would even like to, I am prepared as an MP, to say, that I would be glad to do budget rebalances because so many new children are born in Serbia that we have to provide new funds. I'm just afraid it won't happen. What was my intention is to protect the existing, so women who are currently employed by the labor contract, that they can't get fired in those 12 months after childbirth, not since they've been in a different state, that no one can because of the end of the working relationship contract, to protect them in that sense, and that money is provided by the state. So we now have women who are employed on the basis of that contract. I don't expect any of the employers to fire them. Now, if we pass this law, it won't be possible. But I also didn't expect that, in a number of cases, it would happen. But what's our obligation is that the inequality that exists in our society, we must personally show that we are fighting it. This Parliament, I have had the opportunity to visit several European states, where they were positively surprised to hear that 32, almost 33% of women exist in this Parliament. But that's not enough. There should be at least 50% of them, to show that this is equality and not only in parliament, of course, in all the leading jobs, at all the jobs in Serbia. That's what we have to build. I can't promise you this will happen in one night. I can't promise you this will happen in a month, but I'm asking you to help with all the concrete proposals, and on these changes and additions. I encourage all other MPs. Help, you make suggestions, let us improve existing legal solutions. That's what the National Assembly is for. If we didn't do the brightest thing today, we'd do it at the next session, on the one after you. We have plenty of time to consider and to improve many legal solutions, of course, given everything we need to keep in mind, but above all, taking care of those parameters that say that it's the right of a child to have a life, that it's the right of a mother to grow up normally, that it's something that has to be sacred to us. They really were my motives. I hope I could answer at least some of your questions. Everything we see in the process as a problem, a lack, anything we feel is still to be fixed or done, I will be ready to work with you on it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14269	Mr. Djuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14270	That's why I intervened that way. You know that there are formal rules in parliament that make it impossible for us to intervene on those members of the law of the basic text of the law which is not covered by your proposal, and that was the problem that many of these changes or possible changes could not be included in this text or in this package that you have proposed with such limited changes. Why did I insist on that tone you had for the business world? I agree with you that a great act of social responsibility or responsibility to your employees is to provide them with the best possible conditions, including women in this state, but I would go one step further than you, Mr Stefanovic. I don't think you pointed that out. I think it's going to be more and more of an employer's interest to act that way. As difficult as the situation is at this point, you have very different situations, especially in the private sector. You have those who will fight for every worker and who will not be remembered not to extend the work contract to a certain time, regardless of the provisions of this law, whether they exist or not. And there's one part, and these women are actually the most endangered, where such an employer's awareness doesn't exist simply because the offer of this kind of labour force on the market is so large that it can practically, without any particular cost to itself, take another worker and go through that cycle again. Let's just get this straight one more time. When the contract of work expires for a certain time, it is not a cancellation of the contract of work. He just expired his work contract for a certain period of time, no cancellation. Then none of the conditions that you've spoken about and which you're talking about in this bill of yours are applicable. You can't tell when a woman stops working in the current system because her labor contract's expired, that it's a crime. It's a bit of an exaggeration. Our Labour Act defines when contracts are concluded at a certain time, among other things it says in projects, in some other way. These are natural circumstances when a contract is concluded for a certain period of time and it should not be our assumption that someone will always deliberately violate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14271	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14272	I can't agree with this last one, because I don't think you're right. Article 2 of my proposal says - for a member of the staff of the Member’s position, the period for which the contract established a working relationship for a certain period of time extends to the expiry of the right of absence. He doesn't have to be fired. He can't stop his work contract and lose his job. This is foreseen that, when it ceases, in fact, that is the essence of this law, when it ceases its duration of the labor contract, its contract is automatically extended as long as it has the right to be pregnant, or maternity leave. This is the essence of the whole law, that it cannot be said in such a simple way by the end of the work contract – sorry, your work contract expired, but we did not fire you, and, of course, the cancellation is impossible under the previous Labour Act, which I respected, I did not touch that matter. And we've put that firing is nothing if on the day of the job contract the employer was known to have the circumstances of the first member's position, which I think is an additional protection. It's the only thing I disagree with, and everything else, I'm totally ready to do. I think this is an important first step, to show that we are ready to protect mothers and children, and after that, anything that can be further improved and I hope that Serbia will progress faster towards economic strength, we can work on further protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-27-0.u14273	Thank you. We're canceling work for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Neven the Flowering.
