ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Please take your seats and calm down. Thank you. I begin the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your Honor! On Friday, we remembered the victims of Tuesday's capture at the College and the working bodies for a minute of silence. Allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly, to thank everyone, from the Government and mayors of affected municipalities, to firefighters, members of the military and all volunteers and donors of financial assistance for their swift and self-sacrificing action. May this solidarity also follow us in the coming months, when much effort is needed and cooperation is needed in rebuilding damaged or destroyed houses, villages, roads and logs. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, France [[Ferry]] Horvath, Milan Friday, Aloise Posedel, Michael Prevc, Anton Rop and Aloise Sok. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janšo - points 1 and 29, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - to all agenda items, representative of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations - points 18 and 19 and representatives of the Council of Justice - to agenda item 30. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 14 September 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia proposes to withdraw from the agenda the motion for a resolution on the national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 19 September 2007. Does a representative of the proponents want an explanation? Here you go, Mr. Skull. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We have proposed the withdrawal of this item from the agenda for a number of reasons. First, because this resolution has largely divided the entire Slovenian public into government parties, ministers and others who support this proposal, on the one hand, and on the other hand the opposition and the university, university institutions, research institutions and so on, which are mainly and very strongly opposed to this proposal. The division is so severe that it is difficult for us to find a couple in more recent discussions on the regulation of higher education and science. That's one reason. The second reason is for us to appoint a new Minister for this area at this meeting on a proposal from the Government. The Minister will be appointed as likely Monday next week, and this debate on this resolution is scheduled for Thursday this week. The National Assembly has an exceptional opportunity to cut down this ultimate stance, which has been established by Minister Zupan, to postpone the decision on this important document to a later date and thus demonstrate the will to put things differently in the field of higher education and research. The National Assembly therefore has the opportunity to give new ministers, colleagues of our kind, the opportunity to put things on a new and for the benefit of higher education and science. If he does not do so, he will in fact entangle her in conflicts that are not hers and in a situation where the Priories will have their hands tied. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? There are more deadlines, so I'm opening the application. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Give a warm welcome to the National Assembly and to all present! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal of the Liberal Democracy Club to withdraw this item from the agenda. I think it may be too much to repeat the reasons that lead us to such behaviour because we have already discussed this quite extensively at the meetings of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology. However, the situation is now somewhat different from when we considered the resolution and the multitude of amendments that have been tabled on it. The fact is that the Group of Social Democrats has repeatedly reiterated that it considers that this resolution is suitable for the adoption of such a kind as it was created after the consideration on the home body, but we believe that it closes the door to the possibility of a normal, dynamic and, above all, I will say, the mode of communication required by the higher education, scientific and research sphere so that, as a minister, it can later work normally and achieve the objectives that it has set itself in preparation for the candidacy, but in a different way than the Minister, who, due to this resolution and the law that arose after the publication or after the resolution came to the National Assembly, has in fact resigned. We believe that the time given to the future minister to reopen talks and agreements with the professional and social partners in the higher education and research sphere is that the time it takes is not only her but also herself. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Senior partners. [[...]] So much for the reasons why we think it would be better if we did not consider the resolution at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you so much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues! You could say that everything has actually been told. But obviously, it's always necessary to repeat it, because some people just don't get to live because they're failing their common sense. The four continuations of the meeting, at which the Higher Education Committee's mother's work addressed the resolution, were a fundamental document which, in fact, contradicts the entire profession. Those of you who may smile at the words of the profession, we have already witnessed this in this House. Let me remind you that under the title of profession, people who wear scientific titles are actually hiding. I wouldn't make fun of these things. I'd like to remind you again. This is a core document, a core document that has been discussed in the working body at four meetings or four meetings. It started before the parliamentary holidays. Over 250 amendments have been tabled. I say that these are very important things that, if this document is forced, forced to say, under the power of coalition MPs and Members, we will actually witness not only the destruction of good quality about our country, but we will be a real witness of competition when the arguments of power are won or when the argument is overcome. Therefore, I would like to ask you once again on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, which will support the proposal to withdraw this point, to consider pressing the "yes" button, saying that we will withdraw this point and consult again. Last but not least, I believe that the new Minister will be elected, but I believe that she will have the opportunity to take another look at the arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the postponement of urgent changes, in fact the reforms in higher education and research and development activities. This proposal for a decision, which we reject, is another of the many attempts and activities that have now been mentioned by my predecessors. We are aware that the long-term development performance of Slovenia also requires changes, reform in this area. This is the only area, in fact, that has not yet undergone any changes in our young country of Slovenia. On the other hand, the resolution or national higher education programme was prepared thoroughly among all partners, development partners, from March to May 2006, then put into public debate, was coordinated with students in December, with universities, the Rector's Conference in mid-January, and also in the Partnership for Development, which was signed on 29 March this year by the Vice-President of Social Democrats, Dr. Lukšič. And I don't know why we should continue to delay these urgent changes. That's the point. Europe expects Bologna processes from us, expects Lisbon's success in innovation and competitiveness, and we are inflationary, acting in the way that has already been mentioned. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you. I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. Mr. Horvath, there is no explanation for the vote at this point. Thank you very much for your attention on the orange light on the card. We will decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. The Group of Social Democrats proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Basic School Act and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 20 September 2007. I propose that we hold a joint debate on the withdrawal of both proposals for legislation and vote on each proposal individually after the discussion is closed. Would you like a representative of the motions? Here, you have the word, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We agree with the simultaneous explanation and the simultaneous debate on our proposal. We propose that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools and on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education be withdrawn from this meeting of the National Assembly. We probably all know, we feel and we are convinced that education and education, its system, especially primary school, concerns every citizen and citizen. There is no one who would not have a connection in this or any other relationship with the problems of education and education and would not be aware of the importance of the system for the future of Slovenia. It is not new, but I repeat, if I find that the Government has failed to link the interests of the profession on such a complex system, to link the interests of teachers and not to leave parents divided. It is unfortunate and unacceptable that such important legislation is adopted in the event of a complete or significant disagreement between the profession and the parents, only because the group in the Ministry has established or wants to enforce its interests together with the ruling coalition. In order to ensure that such a difficult decision is reconsidered, we propose a postponement from this meeting. And there's another reason. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! If we understand the meaning of the public presentation of opinions, then we will vote in favour of the postponement. To talk about how public presentation of opinions makes sense by collecting different views and views, which should then be taken into account by Members and Members in the final decision, and to do so after the second reading, when amendments and practical days preceding the meeting of the National Assembly are already being drawn up, then this is a mockery of this institution. Please, let us not allow this and let this be the reason for the postponement, as the public presentation of opinions on Friday not only confirmed it, but further deepened the fragmentation and differences in terms of school legislation in both the profession and the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening applications. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I too will support or the Slovenian National Party's Group will support the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. The fact is that the Beast Reform of Horuk, in fact, has run out of arguments, the right arguments on the proposalr's side, and that even on Friday, when the opposition, under different conditions, proposed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a public presentation of opinions and when, with the support of the coalition, the president of the working body forced or faked business regulations and the public presentation of opinions on Friday, after the law had been redrafted, as it was, on the Education Committee, that this public debate was also taking place on Friday, and I will say, under the name of a pure farce. We have heard quite a bit or rather ideologically colored misleading strategies by the proponents or those who led the committee. The meeting took place, in my opinion, very biased, non-professional and such was the whole decommissioning within the home working body. Not only this non-professionality, but the fact is that both laws are very important, because they change the educational concepts in the very basics, and I stress this once again when the profession is opposed. Such "no fair" doing is not only "unfair", but will in the long term have very harmful consequences. I can tell. Playing at the expense of children is unfair, we write not least in 2007. Those who were dissatisfied with the past system, with past reforms, may I remind you that the same man as he was in previous times is at the forefront of the Beast Reform. So tell me. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] how credible this reform can be. [[...]] And let me finish with just one sentence in mind. I hope and I want the coalition to be the only real authority, the natural authority of knowledge. Think about it before you vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Very nice greetings for everyone, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say that the New Slovenia Group will not support the proposal to withdraw agenda item 6 and 7 of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly. For we estimate that the amendments introduced by the novels of the Law on Primary School and the Law on Financing Education and Education do not constitute any reform at all. This is a relatively small change and given that we have already done here the first reading of both laws, given that a meeting of the mother's working body has been held and that a public presentation of the opinions has already been made, I wonder: For God's sake, how much wiser are we going to be, say, to the next meeting of the National Assembly? Thus, we do not see any reason for delaying further consideration of these two laws. The New Slovenia Group does not agree with colleagues from Social Democracy who wish to delay this treatment. We will therefore oppose this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The reform that is ahead of us is very important, not interfering with the essentials, except in one part. And this key part is that today this legislation must remain on the agenda. What's this all about? In fact, there has been some social inequality from the legislation in force so far. Some had to pay tuition for their acquired knowledge. The new legislation completely abolishes all school fees and thus eliminates the social inequalities that we have witnessed so far. Do we have the right, Members and Members, to prolong the situation needlessly? I'm saying no. And for this reason, I call on you to adopt legislation today that abolishes tuition in its entirety and without exception, which gives more power to parents who actually give them a greater role in the entire educational and educational process they have had so far, and which, for the first time, fully realizes the constitutional right of parents to choose that education, that school for their child, which they sincerely believe is best for their child, because that is the essence of the current legislation of these proposals that are before us today. All the dilemmas have been debated so far, and it has been months since the proposals came to the National Assembly. The first general debate was held and the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body, gave a green light to make it an appropriate basis. However, on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, we have heard a number of comments that have been made in recent months and we have also included them in the texts of the laws that are now given as a real basis for the decision-making of the National Assembly. For this reason, it is clear that a second reading at this meeting can be done without difficulty, because in order to be able to do so with all possible arguments, we have also made a public presentation of opinions that lasted for five hours and in which everyone who wanted to do so has been given a word. The vast majority of the debaters fully supported this legislation, which is proposed, at least in the basic provisions. You can see about this in the magnetograms, which are now available to me as far as I know, and all will also be given the opportunity to see, by tomorrow at the latest, in the form of written materials, which are like [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Something needs to be done before 2008. That's beyond a doubt. But since time is short, it has to be done quickly and in a violent way. Thus, to push all the laws in education, in the fields of education, not only the laws dealing with primary, secondary and preschool systems, but also the laws that you have decided not to withdraw the resolution from this session, so decided. So the education system is completely changing, from kindergarten to doctorate. And not in a mild and not in a gentle way or just in a beautiful way. We come into the private school system at the expense of the public system. He warned many, also manipulations, even just said about the fact that school fees will be no more in the future. Legislation, which we do not want to see, nor this meeting of the National Assembly, introduces private education, opens the door to the church's school system, at the expense of public education. That is why we agree to make another thought. These debates, which have been, have been very directed and have also been under-heard. However, I think that it is also necessary to withdraw both school laws in order not to accidentally face in the near future a much more fateful decision on graves and a very radical change in the school system in Slovenia. You know what I mean, and we know what we can do, who will decide whether this change is right or wrong, if the thoughts are not expressed to the end. Thank you very much. Of course, we will support the withdrawal from this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, we will also support the proposal for the withdrawal of these two laws at the LDS Club, as all the debates so far have already given sufficient arguments that the law on the one hand is not technically supported and, on the other hand, it has been completely improperly guided, and the procedures so far have been completely inappropriate. The fact that the law is not professionally supported shows many different indicators. Let me start by saying that he is opposed by practically all the professional and also the layman's public. We have also seen this from the reaction of trade unions, teachers’ associations, directors’ associations, and, last but not least, students and students. It is also not supported by expert opinions. All the legislative proposals so far have been supported by the expert opinions of the committees, which have been made by specific persons, specific experts. Here the proposalr refers only to some phantom, unknown, professional debates, expert studies of people we do not know. And the results of these studies also indicate their "expertility", under the nickname. And also a very broad public debate has shown how important these laws are and, on the other hand, how mismanaged and unprofessionally prepared they are. The public debate, as I said, confirmed both. Incompetence and mismanagement. As has been the case with the steering committee, last but not least, the proposal to replace the chairman of this committee is a serious breach of the rules of procedure. Why does the applicant insist on such laws? On the one hand, he wants to please partial interests and, of course, also to pay customer debts, and on the other hand, he may not know the work of a huge, long-term and irreparable harm to Slovenian education. And what's the worst? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[Thank you so much for your comment. We'll both study later.]] is doing damage to public education at the expense of private education. [[...]] There are no professional grounds why you introduce a compulsory other foreign language at the expense of object selection, not least in nature and technology. There are also no professional grounds why we should stop success. This only removes the indicator, but you don't solve the problem. Last but not least, by withdrawing this, we can also avoid the announced referendum on these two laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members will support the withdrawal of this point. The reason is simple. I can certainly agree with Mr Horvato when he said we wouldn't be any smarter in one month. Of course we won't, because we're laymen for the thing, most of us here. We're a layman's public, politics. However, it is right to give the profession the opportunity to exercise within one month a thought that was exposed at the time of the adoption of the law was not taken into account and should be taken into account. It's not possible to get past the fact that it's given to someone at the expense of someone else. What's the logic here? Since the introduction of private schools in full on state costs, it is only a step further to having a private police station, a private courtroom and so on. I don't know why we don't pay compulsory health care for a clean private person, just like we're gonna pay private schooling at a private primary school for the government's mandatory programme. Where's the logic at the very beginning of private schools? Primary private school is already our wrong choice in the Cali because primary school is compulsory, state-owned, laziness and should be: at the cost of the country, with a single programme, without private content, without private logic, ideology and so on. And in this sense, it is only right that we should think about the changes to this law for a while and try to apply some kind of professional issue. We are also convinced that the profession has been far too under-appreciated during this period, and it would be time for the profession to be taken into account both in this area and in another. And in this sense, we want to give the profession some time to try to implement its proposals with regard to certain urgent changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for withdrawals. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the draft law on amendments and additions to the basic school law from the agenda. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 39. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education from the agenda. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the Council to extend the agenda by considering the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 21 September 2007. Would you like a representative of the extension candidates? [[He's not here.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing this motion for a decree. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will be a motion for a decree of 16a. The agenda item was discussed at the next meeting at 9 a.m. tomorrow. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the agreement of the College of Presidents of the State, extend the agenda by considering a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Register of Justice, an urgent procedure. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 21 September 2007. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing that bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted by addressing that proposal. The assembly will be a bill of 14a. The agenda item was discussed on Monday, 1 October 2007, following the adjournment of the vote. I now propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and with the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda of the 31st meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 29 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph, of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of Parliament's ruling coalition will be answered by the Prime Minister on Monday, 1 October, at 10 a.m. Members of Parliament, only Bevk, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Mag. Tomaž Stabe, who has reported on two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who are registered ask one question. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, and Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. At the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, Ambassadors Dara Lavtizar Bebler and Members of Mr Aurelio Juri, Mr Aleš Gulič and Mr Cyril Testen asked questions of their Members to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance. Since the Ministers were not present at the meeting, the Members and Members requested an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, who will first answer Mr Aleš Gulic's question regarding the regulation of gambling. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President, and a very nice greeting. Mr Gulič asked the question: How long will you allow illegal gambling with us? How is it possible that despite almost a year old decision of the Office for the Control of Gambling with 1.8.2006, after which BWin must stop advertising gambling via the Internet in Slovenian language, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not act against illegal gambling events in Slovenia and does not make any changes to the market for internet providers and gambling?Let me say that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia has taken steps to control gambling and the Ministry of Finance in relation to this illegal gambling arrangement and to prevent its consequences has approached the implementation of immediate measures, as well as to ensure long-term solutions. [[...]] As far as immediate action is concerned, the list is very long and it will be difficult for me to tell you everything in these minutes, so I will now offer to give you this file personally, and also to all the groups of Members who will be interested in it. Since 9.6. In 2006, when the Office received a so-called role from Blaž Mrva’s lawyer, now BWina, prior to the initiation of a procedure which does not have a legal basis, the Office considered it a letter or request for an opinion and a notification of the intended entry into the Slovenian market and the justification that such conduct is in accordance with EU law. We immediately replied to them that this was not in accordance with Slovenian legislation. 1.8. this is the case a month later, and the Office issued a decision prohibiting him from organising these gambling in the Republic of Slovenia. From there on and almost a week on, things were going on. Since first warnings were sent to all violators, i.e. 22.8, for the purpose of providing a service for which a foreign organiser is not authorised. There have been several procedures and written in various cases, 18 warnings have been given, 6 payment orders have been issued and all procedures have not been completed. On its website, the Office published a notice concerning the provision of services to foreign gambling operators. As a result of the suspicion of criminal service under Article 234b of the Penal Code, the Office waived the General Police Administration, which is already 6.9.2006. 2.10. The Ministry of Finance dismissed BWin’s complaint against the decision of the Office of 1.8 as unfounded. On 11.10., the Office sent the decision of the Ministry of Finance to the Ljubljana Police Administration, to which the General Police Administration had waived the matter in due course. 19.2.2007, however, the Office called on the Ljubljana Police Administration to provide the Office with information on the measures they had taken and at which stage the investigation referred to the offence. On 10.4. the Office sent an inquiry to the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana. The Prosecutor's Office collects information on the suspicion of criminal service, given that the perpetrator continues to arrange gambling. In this regard, the Office sent additional explanations at the request of the Ljubljana Police Administration on 23.8.2007. Despite these measures, BWin still offers gambling via the internet in the Slovenian language. The Office for the Control of Gambling is sanctioning offences for the illicit advertising of BWIN by means of fines. The District Court in Ljubljana, with its judgments, confirmed the measures taken by the Office for the Control of Gambling. The criminal offence of illegal gambling is suspected, however, of being investigated by law enforcement authorities. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Gambling and the Ministry of Finance have joined the implementation of immediate measures and, of course, in providing long-term solutions in connection with the illegal adaptation of gambling and the prevention of its consequences, and this is the preparation of a proposal for amendments and the completion of the law on gambling, which is currently in public debate. Let me also say that this is not only a problem facing Slovenia, but also other European countries, which, like us, have such a ban, are struggling with this institution, which operates illegally in many ways. However, we expect that in a short time we will be able to achieve what the law tells us and binds us all to prevent and eliminate this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u27	I would like to ask for a reply, of course I thank you for the documentation offered, I will gladly take it and, of course, I also count that other parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties will be interested in it. But I am interested, Mr Minister: How do you assess that there is nothing wise to do at this time? I wonder if it is because you say that other countries also have problems if this could be regulated at European Community level, because we know that they like to write directives. Why don't we do something else?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much for this additional question. It is true that this is also the subject of debate in particular in the field of the working bodies of the Council of Ministers of Finance, because it is practically in all countries with a ban such as us in the area of the Ministry of Finance. It is not easy, given the technological progress that is evident in this area, to achieve this. In this sense, I must admit that there are certain problems. However, I must also say that, as far as Slovenian media is concerned, we have not seen a major infringement in recent months, as far as this is concerned. And that's where it comes in, or it's still on the Internet. Of course, I would also like to explain that I did not say there was nothing wise to do. Of course you can. And what we do is exactly what the law allows us to do. It is with the cooperation of the Office for the Prevention of the Consequences of Games of Luck, including with the Police Administration and with the Prosecutor's Office, and also with our judiciary, that we do everything we can. In this sense, I must say that these fines, which have been imposed and practically every week that appears, have had their effect and that this matter is slowly being regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Minister will now answer Mr Cyril Testen's question regarding the ownership of the Triglav insurance company. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you very much for this question as well. The question is this: How can such a difference be made between the first valuation and the subsequent valuation of the value of the insurance company Triglav? How do you explain that the previous management of the insurance company Triglav’s second valuation was hidden or the previous government failed to act? Let me say that the first valuation report or the first evaluation report of the insurance company Triglav was made in 2003. The report showed that the value of Triglav insurance company on 1.1.2001 was estimated at 60.6 billion former tolars. The then administration of the Triglav Insurance Company had a new higher appreciation, but it kept the reasons for the incomprehensible, at least incomprehensible, and neither the Sod nor the Ministry of Finance came to know it. Due to doubts as to the correctness of the assessment of the value of the capital of the Insurance Company Triglav, in 2005 the Ministry of Finance and consequently the Court requested the verification of the initial valuation. The recovery was based on the fact that the original valuation did not take into account the actual result of the life and property insurance that existed at the time of the initial valuation. After verifying the valuation of the Insurance Company Triglav received by the Court in March 2006, the estimated value of the Insurance Company Triglav 1.1.2001 121.8 billion was 100% higher. How will this action affect the further ownership process of the Triglav Insurance Company? Of course, judicial proceedings have begun. After obtaining the verification of the valuation of the insurance undertaking in 2006, by Price Waterhouse Cooper, the Court issued 527 decisions renewing the procedure by way of an official duty to renew the procedures for determining the beneficiaries of the shares. There have been 217 complaints against the decisions and 310 decisions on the renewal of the procedure have become legally binding. 130 complaints were lodged with the Administrative Court against decisions of the Ministry of Finance concerning appeals against decisions to reopen proceedings. At the end of June, the Ministry of Finance received the first positive judgment of 130 of the actions brought, in which the Administrative Court confirmed the position of the Ministry of Finance that it was admissible on the basis of the above-mentioned facts. This judgment has an impact on the price of the share and therefore on the revenue of the budget, while the ownership process of the Triglav Insurance Company has no major impact. The adoption of the law on the property transformation of insurance companies, namely ZLPZ 1-A, is of great importance in the continuation of the ownership of the insurance company Triglav. If the law gives notice, Kad will have the right to manage a 35.25% share in the Triglav Insurance and, consequently, will have to exercise the rights resulting from the ownership of these shares which he has received, taking into account the provisions of this Act, with a view to providing funds for pension and disability insurance. In accordance with Article 3 of the Law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies, the insurance company Triglav must place its shares in trading on an organised securities market. By the end of August, the insurance administration had already initiated procedures and activities for the classification of shares in an organised market. Finally, the last set of questions: What does such a court decision mean for a country, which is the result for all taxpayers and taxpayers? The difference between the original value and the estimated value is 100%, which means that on the basis of the initial assessment and on the basis of the verification, this represents the higher income of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia from the ownership of insurance companies of EUR 50 million. Let me just say that the Ministry first went to get this thing out of the way. Now that it is on the right track, we have prevented the budget from losing EUR 50 million because of the previous administration's conduct, we are currently preparing a criminal procedure against the perpetrators of such activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. Testen, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and all the ministers! My additional question is: Since the circumstances have changed significantly since the last meeting of the State Council, I wonder: What is your view on the continuation of the ownership of the Triglav insurance company if the initiators - the State Council - are successful about their intention at the referendum? The situation will change significantly and all further procedures are questionable? I'm interested in your position on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much for this additional question. Things have really changed, which is what you've raised on this issue. In particular, this is the decision of the Council of State. Let me say that the law adopted in this National Assembly in 2002 on the transformation of the property of the Triglav Insurance Company provided that natural persons, all those who were insured in order to obtain their share, would have their share in this capital, by 35.4% of the total. When I took responsibility from Dr. Marble, my predecessor, at this meeting we had, he explained to me that the Ministry of Finance was actually late for the implementation of this law for two years. This was because they considered that such a law as was adopted in the National Assembly was impossible, along with Insurance Company Triglav, but this proved impossible. It is impossible in this sense to require at least 10 years of long legal proceedings because there is no comprehensive record of who was actually insured in 1990. But there may be other problems. That's what the Secretary of State explained to me at the time. Silken, who then worked with me for eight months or almost a year further, not only was there a problem in this respect, but it is not a comprehensive information that we do not have everything at our disposal, that there was some practice in certain cases where some individuals had certain policies written down under their name, which were also intended for others. So that we may also have some long excuses and achieve nothing. I'm the one who had this thing checked out again because we're finally getting married like that. There have been long discussions within the coalition also with coalition partners on how to resolve this issue. And also with the opposition. Finally, it is about how to solve this key problem, that what was meant by the law is at least partially solved. And our decision was that it was best to actually keep it, that shares are held together, that is to say, right now is a bill, as you know it goes through the KAD, to ensure at the same time, all of these assets that these shares can create over time, so that this is strictly intended as financial support for pension insurance. If this happens, we will have to solve this problem again, and it will remain unresolved, and I think we all lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you, Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk. Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, should answer Mr Aurelio Juri's question on the position of the Ministry on the establishment of the missile shield and Mrs Darja Lovtijar Bebler regarding the failure to comply with Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. He will answer questions at the next meeting of the congregation due to his absence. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. There's no minister. He apologized. Will you still put it up? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your carelessness. I will ask the question of emissary, although I am not happy for the second time, and for the second time on the same question, the Minister cannot be present. But I will ask him to give Minister Virant another chance to answer the question I raised in July specifically with data, not with more or less general definitions, which do not tell me anything. That is why I would also like to stress further that I am asking the Minister to answer me orally so that I can assess and ask any supplementary question. What's this all about? I asked the Minister, already in July, what are the reasons for the criteria for where they were published, whether they were known to the chiefs of administrative units, that 58 chiefs of administrative units had already been named in part, and some of the appointment procedures were still under full different criteria. For some, public tenders have been made, for most of the calls have not been made so far or have been made in two phases. Some have taken into account the professional criteria established by the Official Council. For some who have been appointed without any invitation to tender, the opinion of the Official Council has not been taken into account at all. Of all these different procedures, the public, including to me personally, as well as to some chiefs of administrative units who feel that they have been wronged, raises the question whether the appointment of commissioners has been as evident as the Minister and this Government have always stated that they are acting, whether they have been taken into account in particular and only the professional criteria and performance of the work so far, or whether the criteria have also been political. These are specific cases in which individual administrative units achieve exceptional results and have also received the highest marks for the Commissioner, and in some cases even the only ones were appropriate, and the Minister, without explaining the reason, decided to repeat the invitation to tender and invited them to recommit themselves to the invitation to tender, although in the previous tender only all candidates were eligible. Please clarify these matters so that there is no doubt in any way about the appointment of such important public servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you. Dr. Virant will answer to you at the next session. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Defence a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ministerial assembly! The case of ROLE 2 Military Hospital is drawn as a yoke of snakes and it appears that the minister has no luck, at least in this case, with investments that may have civil significance in the presence of strictly military personnel. In this regard, I have already asked you a question at one of the previous meetings, but the answer then, and more importantly, the course of events at this time compels me to ask you again and I would really like an explicit answer: Who and why ordered the ROLE 2 hospital from the location in Murski Sobota to move to Maribor? Why Maribor? Why is this a better location than a cophouse? When we compare and, say, refer to your previous answer that protection and warehousing are needed - not least, we also have a warehousing in Murski Sobota. I'm interested in an expert explanation, an opinion on why you moved the hospital. Worst of all, the decision on this - and once again, I stress who accepted it and on what basis did you issue it when the hospital was just before it was on the move and that it could also serve the civilian population. Next thing that interests me: Why now that you're waiting for equipment when you want to transform the hospital to a lower level, why isn't the hospital in motion? The equipment was taken over and, as I said, was in Murska Sobota just before it became operational. Why is the equipment not in operation again during this transitional period, when it is now at the Maribor military station? Is it possible because I don't have all the information that the equipment is already somewhere else and they're using it? If so, why there and on what basis? Last question I have: How can you guarantee that now after conversion from ROLE 2 to ROLE 2 to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] to the battalion level of the hospital by 2009, as you promise, really took office? [[...]] Finally, with this decision you have decided on additional costs, because the transformation of the hospital, we can see that the budget will be additional. I wonder if you have any guarantees that this will really be realized within the expected time frame? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u41	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. Your Honor, thank you for asking me this question. In fact, we've talked a lot about a mobile hospital. However, let me say that there are actually problems with this mobile hospital, but these problems were caused by the signing of the contract in the mandate when you were in the government, so as Minister of Defence, I am now solving this situation. Who made the decision to move to a mobile hospital - let me say that this was the decision of the expert group I appointed this year in March, which was made up of both military and civilian experts. I appointed this group because I myself have always been convinced that this mobile hospital is all right, even with the President of the State, President Drnovsk, we visited this hospital and were confident that things would turn out. However, when I repeatedly asked why this matter was not working, I never received an exact answer, so I wanted an accurate answer and I also set up this expert group. On the basis of this section's report, it can be found that the equipment purchased for this mobile hospital was inadequate. For example, endoscopy, laparoscopy, is a medical equipment that is never used in mobile hospitals, regardless of whether it is military or civilian, because it is devices that are designed for more diagnostics. Why we moved from Murska Sobota - because it was a decision to transform this capacity into the capacity that the Slovenian Army needs. You know that ROLE 2 has been purchased for capacity at the level of the brigade, that the Slovenian Army has no brigade for the needs of the NATO liaison, because we will always cooperate at battalion level. Therefore, this hospital had to be transformed into a lower, battalion level. This transformation will take some time. I hope that we will achieve this in 2009, especially because there is a lack of medical equipment that we would urgently need; whether ROLE 2 is for the needs of the brigade or for the needs of the battalion. And even if we wanted to use this capacity right now, we couldn't, because there's no medical equipment. We have containers, we have, say, air conditioners and so on, but we don't have, for example, operating tables - or it is, but it's supposed to be rusty. It is therefore necessary to review all this equipment and to redefine which medical equipment we need if we want this capacity to work. As a result, the expert commission proposed to move to the Military Office of General Maistra, where the appropriate infrastructure and appropriate support are available. It is also estimated that appropriate cooperation with the Maribor hospital will also be possible, as one of the important issues is that it is also necessary to provide appropriate professional health personnel who will not be fully professional but will also be based on the contractual reserve. In Murska Sobota, we have run out of annex, there is no contract there, and I think it would not make sense for this capacity to remain there, given all these tasks that await us if we want this capacity to be qualified in 2009 for those needs that Slovenia needs. In particular, I would stress that this capacity has never been acquired in the sense of becoming part of the public health system. It is true that at that time it was mentioned as one of the reasons that this capacity could also be used in the event of a natural disaster, a natural disaster, but only at a time when this is happening. However, this was not meant in this sense to complement this civil part of public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Of course I want a full answer! First, I would ask you: How can you request and not get an answer? Then you do not run the ministry or have this authority to have your subordinates answer your questions. Perhaps it still falls at the time of the signing of the contract, which you say is the source of all problems. Far from it! The signing of the contract is by no means the reason for all the problems. All the problems that arise have arisen at a time when you led the Ministry of Defence, and during the time of this government and also you and your commission have taken over the equipment. And last but not least, in 2006, Minister Bručan, on the lookout - I think that as a doctor at least because of this he can give a more professional assessment than we can - said in his view that the mobile hospital is well equipped, among the better in the country and the acquisition of medical equipment was made by your commission. It is true, however, that half of the members of this Commission were not present at the time of receipt and that the minutes were signed by even a person who is not a member of this Commission. And that medical equipment is not - it is very, very far from the truth, because I have seen in my eyes that medical equipment is that the operating table is not rusty. And as you answered me three months ago, the climate also works very well, so just for a short time: Can this hospital in Maribor now work, is it in operation, or is it packed? If so: Why is the equipment we have not in service? Why was it not used and why could it not be used in the same way in Murski Sobota, why was it better to move to Maribor for the time of reorganization?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you for supplementing this question of yours. I'm surprised that you're also a medical expert, I didn't know you were so well acquainted with medical equipment, so you might be invited to participate in this expert group because I see you know the details of this matter. I understand that you cannot accept that the fault is on the Minister's side at the time this contract was signed, but the fact is that we have bought the capacity that is not what the Slovenian Army needs and that you want to transfer this guilt to someone else in any way now. Whoever runs the Ministry of Defence is probably familiar to you; according to the Constitution - Code of Water, Minister of Defence. Now, if you think anyone else is leading him, that's your problem. I must say that we will do everything to save what can be saved. With regard to acquisitions, you know, even though you said you didn't have all the data, and I believe that you don't have all, but you probably know that certain procedures have been initiated, that the predictive process is ongoing, because in fact, unusual things have happened in the handover itself. However, it is of course a matter for the judicial authorities to decide whether or not it was also a possible crime. I hope that this story will be completed as soon as possible, and we will spend as little money as possible because it has already been over-exploited because it has bought a capacity that is not adequate, which the Slovenian Army did not need. Apparently, at a time when you were running the government, interests were set in order to buy something that was not needed, and perhaps what is written is true in some newspapers, that once again the same names appear, which also participated in the purchase of various operating tables.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Slavinec? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u47	I have a procedural proposal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a general debate at one of the next meetings on the issue of the ROLE 2 hospital and on all the matters which, as I said before, as the yoke of the snake is already drawing in this regard. This is justified by the Minister's insufficient answers to my question today and even earlier. I also base this on a debate on the Defence Committee, and it will certainly help to clarify the details of the purchase, acquisition and, above all, how to use this equipment as rationally as possible. Look, the first nonsense we see is that we have too much hospital and instead of being able to sell something off, we earn it and get a smaller -no! Now we'll buy a smaller one. I'm sure it's a bit of a fight. Next thing. It's about running the ministry. Of course, this is my problem, but also all of us, all of us citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who can rightly care for their safety, if the Minister asks his subordinates and does not get an answer. And last but not least, I didn't run the government at the time, you were, Mr. Secretary, in that government. And I really don't think it's appropriate that I'm an expert in medicine. Look at the magnetogram, if you've forgotten, half a minute or two from now on, it's back to what I said. I appealed to Minister Bručan, who is certainly a bigger expert - with these words - I spoke from us and therefore, if he assessed that the mobile hospital is well equipped, I, although I might have doubts about it, can still believe the then Minister of Health. He's probably called in to make certain assessments. And, in particular, because of this, fellow Members, I call for my proposal to be supported and, in one of the following discussions, a meeting, to discuss why we are now cutting the hospital too small to buy equipment, to spend additional resources, and why this equipment, which is taken over, does not serve its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Slavinac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence to his question of the delegation will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary of Defense! The amended Fires Act has raised general education for firefighters, which requires a recast of the curricula. The condition for management in professional firefighting units is a minimum of professional education. Is it possible that the Ministry of Defence is considering a higher vocational school for firefighters, such as the police? I believe that in Slovenia, in a short time, a suitable workforce will begin to be lacking, and we are probably all aware that it is the firefighters who carry out the largest part of the operational tasks in the field of protection and rescue at various extraordinary events. Conducting interventions is certainly the most important factor for a successful action. The reasons for urgent and rapid steps in the field of education of firefighters can be read and monitored through various forms of serious natural and other disasters, practically from day to day, both at home and abroad. Also, the general security situation in a recent period in the world requires new and new knowledge from the first intermediaries, which can only be addressed by a well-trained and quality training system. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, whether any concrete steps have been taken to renovate the firefighters' programme for the purpose of training intervention personnel? Are there any human resources reinforcements in the education centre for protection and rescue, as there are now few jobs that are systematized for education? I think that it would be right for the fire school in Slovenia to be comparable to schools in the EU area, because taking care of the expertise and knowledge in the security of our citizens today should be a simple priority for us today. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you for asking. Let me say that, in fact, after the amendment of the laws on protection and rescue, this is the Fire Protection Act and the Law on protection against natural and other disasters, we have also begun the renovation of education and training programmes. Let me say that the programme for a professional firefighter is also renewed, as is the programme for voluntary firefighters. Let me also say that preparations have also been made for the establishment of a fire school, namely a higher fire school. We will have some human resources problems here, but we will also succeed in reorganising within the Protection and Resolution Authority. We already have all these organisational and human resources solutions for a higher fire school. However, I must also say about your second question concerning the management of interventions, that we are also paying particular attention here and that there will be a complementary concept, namely, the management of interventions in large fires, is said, in nature, and also in the case of road tunnels accidents. We think that we are already comparable to what is happening abroad, as our experts and lecturers are teaching both within the EU and within the NATO framework. I therefore think that these activities are going in this direction and I do not expect any particular problems, except those of staff, but we see within the Department of Protection and Resolution that this can be resolved. Thus, after the amendment of the whole legislation, all attention is now focused on training programmes. Let me say that in this sense we are also developing new centres: in addition to the Ig centre, the centre is now being built in Sežana, especially because this area of Crassus is the most fire-prone. In the plan we also have for eastern Slovenia the construction of a firefighter training centre in Pekra, and arrangements are already under way here with the Municipality of Maribor to obtain this space for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will present his position to the Minister for Finance. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. On Tuesday, our country was hit by a major natural disaster that claimed six human lives and enormous material damage. It is estimated at more than €200 million. Not all the wounds of the severe earthquakes and the beach in Logo under Mangart have healed in Posoč and Bovšek, so we must use all the positive experiences in restoring Soča and avoid everything that was wrong. During the first days of the disaster, once again there has been great solidarity between our citizens and citizens, and these examples should be followed in the future by the local communities and, above all, by our country. However, it is entirely reasonable to expect that, in addition to domestic aid, we will also obtain the resources of the European Union Solidarity Fund. We need to help the village valleys and the railways, the ecclesiastical and celestial regions and many other affected areas in our country quickly and effectively. We must provide all people with normal living and working conditions as soon as possible. It will be necessary to restore infrastructure, settlements, businesses, to rehabilitate watercourses and also to face the challenges of an increasingly unpredictable nature. The cultural heritage of the Slovenian people was also affected, and the destruction of the partisan hospital Franje is particularly important. The National Assembly and the Government are ahead of a great deal of responsibility, and people expect a lot from us. We must do everything possible to remedy the consequences of this natural disaster as soon as possible. Because of this Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, I ask: Will the Government respond to the initiative of the Red Cross of Slovenia and many others to amend or supplement the Income Act and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons in order to facilitate donations and other voluntary contributions made in order to remedy the consequences of natural disasters in the Republic of Slovenia add to certain reliefs? Many warn us that, as a result of the conclusion of the business year, a number of people have already spent the envisaged quota of reliefs in these laws and would certainly increase solidarity grants, which have been very large so far. Mr. Minister, I thank you in advance for your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much and very much for your question. As you know, since 1.1.2007 two new laws have been in force, namely the Income Act and also the Law on the Income Tax. In this legislation and also in the Tax Procedure Act, we have introduced certain innovations, which also allow us to be solidarity - in this regard I fully agree with you, which has reemerged in our society, when someone is in real distress, I think that this is a very positive feature of our society - that this solidarity can also occur in this area. In particular, since the Income Act provides that natural persons can also allocate 0.3% in each year of this tax for certain purposes, and it is certain that the aid to people in distress will also be included in these purposes. The Law on the Profit of Legal Persons also allows this, and above all the principle has been introduced that such a relief, as far as the grant is greater than that, can also be applied in the next two years. That's what they say, at least three more years. If someone does now, then he can still use this if he can’t fully give more than that, the law allows him to apply it in the next two years. On the other hand, I would say that it is also very important as regards the Tax Procedure Act - Article 101 also introduces a second option for the tax administration to write off. It is a write-off, a partial write-off and a deferral or reverse payment of a tax on natural persons as regards income. This is mainly the case for those who have experienced certain losses, and the tax administration will, as far as this is concerned, make clear in the coming days how, under what criteria, this principle will also apply in a concrete analysis of all cases. Above all, because I myself have noticed that in most of all the cars that have been completely destroyed have been taken from the parking lot - where the workers park - and you need to know and also understand that they cannot, unless their insurance was complete, that they will have very big problems to make up for such a thing. We'll go along with all the things the law allows today, and I don't think they're petty. 102. Article 102 of the same tax procedure law also allows for a period of two years or a period of up to 24 months in instalments for legal persons. This is also an answer for concrete companies that have had problems. At the same time, I will tell you that I went there myself to check whether these companies actually had certain insurance, irrespective of the amount to be determined by the insurance companies in accordance with the specific contracts. If the losses were greater than this, it will be because they had insurance, even in accordance with the European directives, that we can help and we are now doing this together with the Ministry of Economy. So, as far as these things are concerned, I think that the current legislation makes all this possible to a very large extent and that we can count on this solidarity to prove itself when the tax is due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I propose that you study these options in the Government after the amendment of these two laws, because I think it would be good to consider whether this 0.3% is a high enough number, because many could donate more and that this would be taken into account for the current year, not only in the coming years. In addition, I would like to remind you, almost 10 years ago, in 1998 in the National Assembly, we adopted the Law on Earthquake Reconstruction and Promotion of Development in Soča. We soon made this law, I think, a few months later, and this relief was introduced, so that the income base for the year, as stated in the law, could be reduced for voluntary contributions from citizens to those affected by the earthquake. I think it would be good for you to study these solutions and to use them for this particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We will certainly examine this as far as necessary. However, I would just like to point out that this is 0.3% of the tax revenue and that this 0.3% can still have an additional 0.2%, which is said to be almost half of the tax revenue for natural persons, but when we did not have it in the past, this was not the case for natural persons. It was very widely written in legislation, and then it was 2% of the limit that was always exceeded. So, for the first time, we actually have legislation in force that will allow the actual will of the taxpayer to come true because we have eliminated all other reliefs and replaced them for some overall higher relief than we have in the past. This also applies, of course, to companies in the corporate tax on the profits of legal persons. The possibilities created by the new legislation are much greater than we have in the past and we will also try to examine all of this in every way and maybe quantify what we are actually talking about today, but believe that it is not as little as some experience from the past can tell you. However, it is also important that we apply tax legislation concerning specific debtors, who themselves have survived this disaster and have difficulties in order to survive. This law specifically foresees and we must also do so and help as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will also ask the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u61	Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! We met not so far back once with funding to build a medical university in Maribor. I must say that since our interview, the University of Maribor has actually received €298,573, which has allowed it to start only with the acquisition of project documentation, but far from obtaining this documentation, the entire documentation costs €625,472 and the project documentation for the implementation of €536,801. Therefore, a total of €863,700 is still missing to raise €1 million,162,273. Remember, when we discussed the 2006 budget, this Kanglerian amendment, the promises that were made, we remember the Resolution on National Development Projects for 2007-2023, where we had, from the construction of the economic centre of South-Eastern Europe to the construction of the Noordung Economic Centre in Koroška, to the Megalaxian amusement park, the Leon Štukl Sports Park and so on, it was also like the project of the University Clinical Centre Maribor, which covered the construction of the hospital in one part and the other building of the medical faculty in the amount that the Government gave us, 51 million euros. This was given to EUR 20 million from the budget and EUR 31 million from European funds. Since there is currently no European funding available, the amount of EUR 863 000 700 to obtain projects for the implementation of this project, and for the purchase of one million 300,000 dwellings in these buildings, which the municipality has given to the state free of charge for this purpose, is said to be in the 2008 budget, which we will be considering in one month, about EUR 2 million there and, according to the government's projections, another three million if we can get it, another EUR 3 million from the European Union. To avoid repeating last year's story, I ask you, Mr. Minister, as the head of the budget: Will you now provide these funds that have been agreed in the 2008 budget, or will we once again be heard and heard again in the National Assembly? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for this question. The fact is that in this Chamber, when we discussed the budget and the National Assembly decided on the budget, there was indeed a debate on the so-called Kangler amendment, where it proposed that we provide more resources than we thought it would be necessary at that time. Since the government was fully determined and is still determined to support the entire clinical centre, the new clinical centre in Maribor and also the Maribor Medical Faculty, we were convinced that the funds provided at the time would be sufficient. Why did we think that? That was not the case, I would say, of the vine twisted; that is, on the basis of the experience that the public administration has in preparing documentation requires about 3% of the budget envisaged. The projected budget for the University of Maribor is around EUR 20 million, and we also thought that these funds in the budget would be sufficient. However, the fact is that there is now a different problem, whether required or expected - on the basis of that, I would say, some procedures that were not exactly the best, at least at the discretion of the Ministry of Finance - that without an architectural competition, a project that requires a project documentation of one million and a half euros. But one million and a half euros is almost 8% of this budget of 20 million. That is why it is still unclear to us today whether we are talking about a broader project than it was originally drawn, or why it is so expensive. Normally, it's about 2-3% dry. We are, of course, prepared to support this matter as far as necessary, even as far as this land is concerned. The land was actually donated to the university by the municipality of Maribor, but this is a special gift because it also comes with the fact that certain apartments need to be bought. The Ministry of Higher Education, I am also aware of this information, has advised that this land would be used for this, based on what everyone in Slovenia today knows about decades of experience with the National and University Library, where we are still waiting today to see how we can get this building started, because it is impossible to start without having the right to the whole lot. And here we are again talking about some additional millions of euros. We are ready to continue to support this project. We also expect that, by the University, which I recognize as a whole, as far as it is concerned, only the University will decide and accept that there will be one representative of the Ministry of Higher Education and also of the Ministry of Finance on the Construction Committee. I think that if two people were involved, two financiers were involved, it would be no big deal, but it's a good thing to put things in place from the very beginning in a better way. As experience shows us all what happens if some irregular situation is from the very beginning, I am thinking now of the Paediatric Clinic, the Oncology Institute and all that is happening to us now in the field of other departments. I think it's very important to make this clear right away, because what the University of Maribor or the municipality of Maribor will have from this, if we have to wait for these additional apartments to be bought. Do we also want a monument to the country’s inability to do so in Maribor, such as the National and University Library? I would very much like to see this project come true. There's no problem here, I'd say, with more resources. I would not like to see this debate reopened, as I have heard it at the time. I have not proposed that I decide these matters myself, but I have committed myself, and this commitment is still valid that I will propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a redistribution, to the extent that this will prove feasible, in a transparent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you. Would you like to complete Mr. Moge's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, some things have not been told exactly. There was nothing in the 2007 budget because there was an interpretation of the government at the time that they did not need these funds at all and that they would do nothing. Because it was seen that all the operationals went so far that project documentation could be obtained - this project documentation costs only, as I said, 625,472 evovs, but not, as you said, 1.8 - is said to be a halved amount. While the documentation for PSI costs €526, it is one million 162,000, not 1.8 million, as you said. Because on the basis of these things that you said, the University of Maribor went on a proposal for a revised spatial program and corrected all these things. Also because the project is less valuable, these resources for this production are also less valuable, these things are. However, I would be extremely sorry, Mr Minister, if this practice, which was in the past, when only because the investments did not start, were to try to make use of the lack of funds they had in order to take advantage of every opportunity they had, so that the project would not see the light of the world. I think those apartments, if you've ever been there by Drava, where in fact the houses are almost falling apart, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] where it is almost impossible to live any longer, that it would be possible in some way, seven or more, to somehow acquire for these people and then have the burden of free land, you have got it as a gift, you would give these two million euros, and 3.5 million euros is given to the European Union. [[...]] So the relationship between the European Union and us is that if I somehow take these calculations to get around 11.5 million from the EU [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and EUR 7.2 million. [[...]] This is, from the point of view of the national economy, extremely good that we do not talk about the benefits that we would have in the field of health as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Even these apartments where there is a space that has been waiting for 10 years to start building the National and University Library are not exactly without knowing how exemplary, but they are still standing there and we have our hands tied and this thing is still being resolved and slowly bought. In any case, we may not have understood each other, our problem from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance is the following: one project was envisaged for the Faculty of Medicine in the amount of about EUR 20 million, to prepare this documentation in accordance with the experience we have, that we need 3% of the investments immediately, to prepare the documentation, we have had and have currently in the budget of EUR 375,000, of which 300,000 was already deposited at the University two months ago. And we can send those additional 75 to you right away. We don't have any liquidity problems, as far as that's concerned. The question is - but I said - that he still maintains that, as long as it turns out to be true, the resources are needed to continue this project this year, we are prepared to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the internal redeployment in the budget for the additional resources needed to do so. In doing so, I expect that the University, with all due respect for their independence, will only listen to the proposal that we have already sent them to participate in the construction committee of at least two members by the Government, one of the Ministry of Higher Education - at the Ministry of Finance, we are not specialists for all. However, I think that as a long-term financier we have the right to participate in these decisions. Thank you very much. Otherwise, we never have a majority, but at least that we are well informed and that there are no such differences in numbers as has occurred in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u69	Nice greetings to all present. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am asking the following question to the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr. Janez Podobnik. I wonder: How could a building permit be granted for an industrial building of a bioelectric power plant, and this is not an agricultural facility, as some claim, which is supposed to stand in the middle of a settlement, a village without the consent of the nearest neighbours in the process of obtaining this building permit? Within the meaning of Chapter IV of the Environmental Protection Act, which deals with environmental interventions, it is legally required for certain types and sizes of environmental interventions to produce impact assessments. Notwithstanding the size of the project, each project, in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Act, must also contain basic environmental components, so that the project carried out has no adverse effects on humans, other environmental components, which is a minimum requirement in relation to compliance with the emission limits prescribed by a number of regulations. How is it possible to issue a building permit for the construction of a biogas plant with relevant facilities for the production of electricity within a narrowed settlement, without alternative locations being processed in the project? The project does not process the state of the environment, the biogas plant touches the landscape park of Goričko and lies in the specific nature 2000 protection area. The project does not deal with environmental impacts, does not take into account environmental aspects related to operation, does not process environmental impact assessments: creating and spreading unpleasant smells, pollination, noise, waste water management and waste mud, electromagnetic radiation, explosive safety and construction waste and debris. The project on the basis of which a building permit is issued does not contain the relevant environmental protection components against the impacts of the planned local environment process, even though an influential smelling area of 200 metres across the boundary of the biogas plant site is envisaged and is altogether 20 metres away from the neighbour's bedroom. And the power plant is of an industrial nature. Who will now bear the costs and responsibility for removing these monsters that workers have built day and night just to finish earlier, and for which your representative said [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. In your question, you're asking me about some of the principled positions relating to the issue of a building permit. You also specifically mention the biogas plant in Močavjevci and on the basis of this particular question. Although I have received a question which is generally related, I have not received a specific question concerning this only biogas. But since I know this problem quite well, I can tell you in the beginning that the administrative unit Murska Sobota, the administrative unit, not our ministry, issued a building permit on 23 February this year for the construction of the biogas plant with the related facilities to the investor KG Rakičan, Ekoteh d.o.o. from Rakican. However, to your question I would answer you procedurally in this sense, because you are asking me what kind of consent is allowed and what consent is required to build an industrial facility in the middle of a populated environment, that is what you are asking me. Thus, the construction of the facility allows for spatial act, plan, municipal or state n- in this case municipal. That's what the community has in mind. "The integrity of the environmental impact assessment shall be carried out, in accordance with the provisions of Article 40(2) of the Environmental Protection Act, for a plan adopted by the competent authority of the State or the municipality in charge of the area of land management, water management, management of forests, fisheries, mining, agriculture, energy, industry, transport, waste management and waste water management, the supply of drinking water, telecommunications and the area of tourism, where an environmental impact assessment is established or planned, in accordance with the provisions of Article 51 of the Environmental Protection Act, or where it is required to assess acceptability under the nature conservation rules." The decision whether to conduct an environmental impact assessment in the middle of a settlement is necessary for an industrial facility, and this decision is linked to the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on Types of Environmental Interventions, which was last amended this year. The full assessment of environmental impacts is a two-step process; I will not assess it in detail, i.e. represent, where a comprehensive environmental impact assessment process has found that the plan will not adversely affect the achievement of environmental objectives, then the Ministry will confirm such a plan by means of a decision. Such a decision shall also be accompanied by restrictive measures, criteria and conditions to be met in order for the plan to be implemented, a way of modifying the implementation of the plan and a mandatory monitoring of the environmental situation for the implementation of the plan. This is my very formal answer, which you probably are not most pleased with. I can tell you in more detail that the natural or legal persons who reside in the vicinity of a planned construction, for example, in this case the local settlements, because this was also the topic at this meeting, are not co-operators unless the spatial act provides otherwise. In this case, the spatial act did not provide otherwise. You also ask how such building permits are supervised. The building permit shall be issued by the administrative unit in the issuing process in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and appropriate documentation and evidence of the right to build on a particular land shall be provided by means of the rules of certain consent and any consent of the neighbours or other persons designated by the applicant in the authorisation process. In the event that there is doubt as to the validity of the building permit, it is possible to appeal against such a building permit and to use other real resources provided for by the General Administrative Procedure Act, a renewal of the authorisation procedure may also be possible. If the building is built without a building permit, then the construction inspector shall put in place a procedure. I also obtained information in preparation for your question, we asked the administrative unit, and we found that our environmental agency, which is responsible for issuing some environmental permits, has not accepted any application to issue it. We also re-examined how the procedure itself was conducted in the administrative unit. The data we have are as follows: in the administrative unit, in the process of issuing a building permit, they have found that it is a facility for which there is no environmental consent or authorisation under the rules, neither is necessary, and therefore no request for such a decision has been issued to our agency. So, on the basis of my answer, I find that the administrative unit which is competent, I believe that in this case, in Murska Sobota, it conducted a procedure based on the law in force. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mrs. Pozsonec? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u73	Yeah, sure. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary, but of course I'm not satisfied. This is actually a mockery of all construction activities, if possible. If you can't put one of the weeds on your own lot without a neighbor signing, but here you're all nothing about it: there was no dilation, there was nothing in fact, and the high force was placed next to the church, next to the football court, the cultural home, and I say, 20 meters away from the neighbor's bedroom. Yeah, well, then where can the Ministry keep an eye on the environment? Is anyone looking out for the environment? Then no one here, and then those rules suck. You can't really deny that something was wrong here. And when we warned them, they built with even greater force to finish as soon as possible. And it's likely that people will go there to Brussels for that. I don't know who will bear responsibility and shame for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. So that there will be no misunderstanding, neither our ministry nor any of our bodies have been questioned and involved in any proceedings on this subject. This must be said first and very clearly. Another time. It is very important that the conditions for construction be laid down in the planning and implementing acts adopted by the municipalities. The municipality where this facility is located has adopted such conditions in its acts. The administrative unit issued a building permit on the basis of the planned and implementing acts of the municipality where this facility stands - it is the primary competence of the municipality to adopt such plans. The municipalities are those who, under the Constitution and under the Law on Local Self-Government, are responsible for regulating the premises. That's another piece of data. Thirdly, this is an assessment that goes beyond merely a formal procedure. I am sure that the investor would have done much more wisely if he had informed you of his intentions, even though it was not necessary to do so formally in the course of the process, but not to have surprised them when the building permit was issued in accordance with the procedures in force. And because of the lack of communication, this conflict apparently occurred later when they began to build. So I would suggest that Ostost does not turn this time into our resort, which until now has not been included in any procedure relating to the issue of a specific building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you. Ms. Cveta Zalokar Orazem will ask the Minister of Transport a question. It's a crane. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial council! Allow me first to apologize to the Minister of Transport of Mags. Radovan Žerjav that, after 14 days of his mandate, I am already asking him a question and that in some way I do not respect the unwritten rule on hundreds of days of peace, but unfortunately we have talked about it 14 days ago and we have predicted that these hundred days will simply not be able to take into account, because this is an extremely short term and that is why I am asking you a question today. However, I hope, of course, that I am speaking on behalf of all Members and Members, that we will receive quality, concrete and correct answers from you in your mandate. My question is related to the annual plan for the development and renewal of highways in Slovenia. I ask you, Mr Minister: How are the preparations for the preparation of this plan for next year? Will you present it to the National Assembly, unlike all your predecessors, within a time limit that allows the National Assembly to receive it at least somewhere in the middle of construction, not as we have done so far as we have always received the program back? In this context, I ask you: What new connections can we expect on the highway cross, with the already built highway infrastructure? Will you include any new connections, building any new connections - like that in Celje, which now behaves with three such entrances to the city? In view of the remarkable increase in traffic, I appeal for a second connection to the city of Domžale to be included in the 2008 programme, since the situation is becoming unsustainable after the toll began at the toll station in Krtina. This connection is already in place and is also planned by the Location Plan Regulation for the construction of the highway between Šentjakob and the Trojans, but unfortunately it was not built because of the opposition of the local population at the time [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The situation has now changed and, of course, the already built and only connection in the Domžals has actually become impossible, as cars of the very wide back of Moravč, Krtina, Kamnika, Radomelj, Tuhinj Valley, Mengša and so on. [[...]] The waiting hours are over half an hour at the end, and I know you're coming too. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] From Styria, so you know what it looks like and how dangerous this only connection to the Domžals is. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u79	Madam Member, thank you very much for the question. The annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways is the most important planning act for the current year, which provides for the construction and renewal of road sections included in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. I can tell you that in the Ministry of Transport and also in Dars, we are very interested in adopting the annual plan at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and issuing the consent of the National Assembly in such timeframes that allow for its smooth realization. It is most desirable to adopt the annual plan in the Government and issue the consent of the National Assembly by the end of the year for the following year, which has so far been rarely achieved, practically only in 2003. The procedure for preparing and adopting the annual plan shall begin with the timely preparation of the professional basis and the draft annual plan. With regard to the preparation and adoption of the annual plan for this year, which took place last year and at the beginning of this year, I would like to stress that the technical basis for the 2007 annual development and renewal plan for motorways was prepared in early October 2006. The fact that the annual plan was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 15.3.2007 and the National Assembly gave its consent on 7 May 2007 confirms in particular the scope of the inter-sectoral coordination procedure prior to the adoption of the Government. I hope and wish that the process will be faster this year and that the annual plan will be adopted this year, which will be of primary interest to all those in charge of its implementation. A number of procedures for the implementation of the plan cannot be initiated before it is operational, this is before the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the approval of the National Assembly. Mindful in particular of the financial difficulties of the plan for the coming year and the above-mentioned facts for this year in relation to the preparation of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2008, Dars has already prepared the technical basis or draft plan that the Ministry of Transport intends to forward to inter-departmental coordination this week. The professional basis for the annual plan is almost one month earlier this year than last year and there is a possibility that the annual plan will be agreed upon by the National Assembly in this year, which I will be working hard to achieve. The connections you spoke about to the highway cross in addition to the connections that are being built simultaneously with the whole section and are an integral part of the investment for the construction of the road section are included in the annual plan mainly in the chapters dealing with the preparation of documentation and final works on motorway sections. However, the annual plan was foreseen for the following year 2008, namely Kranj north, Vrhnika, Cerklje Airport, Naklo, already included in the plan for this year 2007. As for the connection you mentioned, I think you are talking about the Stud connection, which is included in the 1996 Blagovica-Sentjakob Roadmap Regulation, and Dars is still studying the appropriate technical solutions, as the transport study has shown that other measures are necessary for effective traffic regulation, which were not originally envisaged. In particular, I am referring to the possible extension of the market share and the full connection to Ihan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. I think you've followed in a lot of ways what I asked you and I'm satisfied with the answer. Of course not with the content that was presented to me. Above all, I hope in this work that you will really keep your word and we will really accept this annual programme for the construction of motorways, which allows for normal work and this is in particular your interest. However, I am a little less satisfied with the response to the entanglement in the study. I must say that at the time of the adoption of the local plan regulation, the profession was well aware that more than 100,000 inhabitants, or gravity, of the whole municipality of Domžale, Lukovice, Moravč, Kamnika and Mengša, are being acquired. In fact, it's one of the most burdened connections in the world right now. That's what I'm sure, and that's what the traffic count that's been done is saying. We're probably both on board by now. However, I do not agree with the course and the timetable, because I think the measures that you talked about being studied are usually excuses to study in order to postpone. The connection as such will never be problematic, for the profession has already confirmed it at the time of the regulation and has found it necessary. Unfortunately, we're all together then, I'll say, in a way, we were victims of pressure from the public, the surrounding people. Today's situation is impossible and, of course, causes exceptional problems, so I suggest, Mr Minister, that you consider, however, the possibility of joining those connections that you have listed, this connection, for which everything is actually ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u83	We will certainly consider the matter, but the expertise must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nicely greeted! Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published data days ago that in the second quarter of this year the economic growth was 5.9%. In the first half of the year, GDP was significantly higher by 6.5% compared to the same period last year, 2006. Surely these favourable economic developments have an impact on the state of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia this year, especially on public spending. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary of Finance: Do some members of the opposition hold that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is leading an expansion fiscal policy? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, a few days ago, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia issued some corrections concerning data on economic growth in previous years, from 2000 onwards and also as regards 2006 and as regards the first part of 2007, that is to say until 30 June. In fact, we are in a situation where economic growth is much greater than we were in a sense misled on the basis of these forecasts that we have. Since I've had these responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance, I've had the same problems every year. If I just show you that in the year that we were preparing the 2006 budget, this started in May 2005, we had the data of Umar available to expect economic growth in 2006 3.7%. Six months later, in their autumn report, it was said that it would be slightly higher and went from 3.7% to 3.9%. In the 2006 Spring Report, when we already implemented this budget, Umar told us that it showed a little better and economic growth would be around 4.3% there. In autumn 2006, this is three months before the end of the financial year, and Umar announced that economic growth would be 4.7% in 2006. In fact, in January we learned from the Statistics Office that economic growth was 5.2% in 2006 and not 3.7% when we started planning everything. In fact, there has also been a correction now that this economic growth was 5.7% and that they expect 5.9% in 2007. 3.7% but 5.7% is a big difference. And we always have these problems, as far as predictions are concerned, because they are finally only related to the inability of all these analytical models that are available to us to actually include what is obviously happening in our economy. The fact is that when we took on the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and under the coalition agreement, we committed ourselves to reducing public spending by 2% of GDP over the entire four-year period. Today's estimates show that we will achieve this and overcome it already in the third year, because today we can say that, according to budget implementation, both on the income and expenditure side, we expect that there will be a real deficit, and now, after ESA95, we estimate that there will be 0.6%, which is much lower than 1.5% than predicted and projected. Why? Because, finally, on the income side, tax legislation and economic growth had an impact in such a way that we had more revenue than we expected. What does that mean? That the government does not run some expansionary fiscal policy, that public spending in Slovenia is actually falling and will be reduced by perhaps 3.3% by the end of 2007, which is 50% higher than we expected in four years. This in itself opens up new opportunities for the productive sector and this is good news for Slovenia. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, we are also reducing the deficit, which was 3.8% of GDP in 2000, 4% in 2001 and 2.5, 2.7, 2.3 in 2005, was 1.4%, expected to be 1.5% in 2007, and in fact 0.6. From this point of view, this is certainly positive news, and this is also reflected in how entrepreneurs view development, how they imagine the future. When you look at this data every month [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia shows and this is the index of climate in the economy, we are far above 10% on average. [[...]] It moves upwards and downwards, from one month to another, but it is a positive approach as far as that is concerned. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not run an expansion policy. We expect to see a deficit of around 200 million euros in total in 2007, not 380, 370, as predicted. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I don't think all these readings we hear have a basis in the data, and I just wish I could, I'm not afraid of any debate, but I wish from the heart that the debate is based on data, not desire. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr Milan M. Cwickl will also ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I will not ask the Minister of Finance about the public financial situation. We will be able to discuss this when the government brings the state budget and then we will first and foremost see that the share of the state budget has not decreased and that the SOD has some impact on the reduction of expenditure. My question to the Minister is what he has done as a custodian of public finances to prevent the untransparent use of public money at the Ministry of Culture in connection with the operation of the Film Fund and the public procurement of this Ministry. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Minister for reacting so quickly when Mr Rožič, director of one of the state-owned companies in Adria Airways, once in Elan, Giotto, in Smelt, who borrowed 150 000 euros out of state money, reacted correctly and the money was returned. It would be good to replace the board of supervisors. I also hope that now that even the President of the Government has denied us the protection of Mr Bručan, Minister of Health, the former Minister of Health, the protection of the inadequate treatment of Mr Zavrl's affairs at the Pediatric Clinic, I hope that the Minister of Finance will tell us what he will do, what he will do, and whether he will also stop protecting these gentlemen, and especially those who have surpassed the operations of the Paediatric Clinic for about 10 million euros. And the third test, the third question, which has not yet been reached by the Minister of Finance as the custodian of public finances, is: Why does the Minister of Finance allow when one of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Culture, unlawfully grants subsidies, without invitations, over prescribed procedures? Why It Allows Foreclosure of Public Procedures [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Orders? [[...]] Why does the Minister of Finance not even respond to the warnings of the producer association due to the high costs created in this regard? Please, if the Minister of Finance makes this clear to me: Will he achieve that the Film Fund will also work in accordance with the law through the proper representation and functioning of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I'd like to respond to your assessment of the situation in DSU. When I had this report from the media, I requested a meeting with the members of the Supervisory Board and asked them how it had happened. In fact, he did not just borrow it, they had their reasons, they explained the legality of it, and they also proved that there was no damage or damage from a financial point of view of the institution. Finally, the interest rate was higher than the yield where these free funds were loaded. But I've just estimated that as far as this is concerned, there are things that may not be written by law, but common sense tells you that this is not done and I've asked you to stop it immediately. I also have to admit, as I said in a public message, that a certain person did it on his own before I asked for it. As far as this question is concerned, however, with regard to the Film Fund. In this regard, there was a great deal of talk in the Slovenian public space, even in a political sense, and some talk. I don't think I accept any evaluation here to protect one or the other person or group. My shield is only the law and, of course, the use of common sense in these things. I've done what any wise master would do. I've had meetings with the Minister of Culture. On the basis of these meetings, the Minister of Culture himself asked me to have the Office for Budgetary Control review this situation, which they have already done. I am committed because, as you well know, the Office for Budgetary Control does not have very many people to deal with this as a matter of priority because this is the subject of such a great deal of debate. This check-up already went through Friday night. When I was away from the office, this was supposed to come to the Ministry of Finance, this morning I received this in my hands, and the report says that the Ministry of Culture has 30 days in accordance with the law to answer certain questions and warnings raised by the Office for Budgetary Control there. Until I have a clear report on this matter, I would not like to comment further. In any case, I will continue to advocate the legality of action in all areas, including the Ministry of Culture or wherever this will occur. In any case, I think that as long as we do not have some clear professional evaluation in our hands by the authorities, who are also legally responsible for this, it makes no sense for us to continue to debate. Let's wait for the data, and based on the data, I'll take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u93	I want a supplement. Mr. Minister, look, the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the Film Fund have also prevented illegal activity with the help of your employee, a staff member of the Ministry of Finance. This lady was the first to point out the inadequate operation of the Film Fund. And this lady, by her vote, has prevented the adoption of an illegal programme. Then, at the suggestion of the Minister of Culture, the government resolved it with your consent. As Minister of Finance, you did not protect a staff member who warned of untransparent, irregular and illegal public administration. Instead, you appointed another representative of the Ministry of Finance, and with the voice of this representative, the Director of the Fund was recently appointed Director of the Media Directorate at the Ministry of Culture. Does that not mean supporting the Film Fund? Mr Minister, at the same time, this film fund allocates funds without a call for proposals. This is a very dangerous practice. Does this mean that we will now share as much as €514 million of this money from the state budget at the annual subsidy level by hand? That, Mr. Secretary, is something that requires your answer. And I don't care if Friday night or Monday morning's budget inspection was reported. I would like to know what you and the Minister of Culture have talked about, since the first half of the year's budget inspection reports show that they do not work legally. And finally, about Mr. Rozic and what the government could do. The government is the assembly of the DSU and the government can replace the supervisory board if the supervisory board felt it was right to give credit to its director. According to this logic, you can borrow a 7% loan from the state budget, because 5% is just an investment in the bank and someone else would take it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I already answered the first question. Until I have the data and assessments of the relevant authorities in my hands, I will not make the assessments I hear again. And I hope that this will also enter our political culture, that we do not make assessments in the air, but on the basis of concrete data. As regards the discharge of the Ministry of Finance's official, I would like to remind you that, following a decision of the Government, a limited number of supervisory committees have been decided on which one may participate. This lady was in five and I appointed an expert from my own cabinet because I want to have a direct report on what's going on there. About other things. As for this, I will be happy to present to you the report I received from the President of the Supervisory Board. As far as DSU and illegality are concerned, which you estimate so quickly that it was. However, I agree with you that, irrespective of legality and regardless of the fact that no one has been harmed by this, but certainly not by public means, I still believe that this is an irregular act and that such a thing cannot happen by public means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u96	Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u97	I would like, in accordance with Article 226, to hold a debate on the Minister's response. Mr Minister did not refuse the idea that it was right, in line with the obvious government opinion, to dismiss those officials of the Ministry of Finance - the lady did not resign herself, they resolved her - which cautioned against untransparent, irregular, illegal action. The lady pointed out that it was impossible for subsidies from the Ministry of Culture and Grants of the Film Fund to be distributed without a public invitation to tender. By this logic, all agricultural subsidies, all development subsidies, and so on, could be distributed at home. This is not what I expected from you, Mr. Secretary, who is the custodian of public finances. And in the Public Finance Act and elsewhere it clearly states that transparency is the principle of transparency is condition number one. I also agree to hold a debate on whether it is correct for the Government not to resolve the DSU Supervisory Board, which has concluded that there is nothing wrong with the Director of DSU, a company which is the legal successor of the former Development Fund and has received over a decade ago in the management of 100 companies that have been rehabilitated, that the Director of the Supervisory Board has granted himself 150 000 euro of credit. This was signed by Mr Rožič as a person with Mr Rožič as Director of the DSU. I've been monitoring this discussion in the media since Dars d.d. I could do something very similar, but someone else, of course, said that no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And this gentleman said he couldn't get credit at the bank, so he got it at DSU. And the debate on the public fund, the debate on how to behave is actually a debate on transparency, on corruption and clientelistic activities. And if you have replaced the lady who warned the entire Slovenian public that something was going very wrong in the Film Slade if you replaced her with someone from the cabinet, and this supported the appointment of the director of the Media Directorate for the Director of the Film Fund, of course at least, you are also in violation of the film fund law, which does not provide for the possibility of state officials sitting as their bosses. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this, to see whether, as Mr Minister has reacted to some point of good, he will react properly here and to discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. It will not go to the vote your proposal to hold the debate and these new insinuations, but only a debate on the Minister's response. And on this initiative, if you think so, we will vote tomorrow in the context of the vote on the Minister's response. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Major natural disasters are becoming more common. Most of them can be attributed to climate change and the damage is increasing, either material damage, and in this year, there were many fatalities in Slovenia at the major scenes of these accidents. I come from a conference and workshop or a working meeting last year in Dubrovnik, on the subject of Preparedness for South-Eastern Europe. If the European Union is sufficiently prepared within its borders to rescue or build a system that is compatible from country to country, rescuers in international actions that show that they are increasingly needed will encounter a whole bunch of bureaucratic technical obstacles. Thus, at this conference, it was mentioned that in America, in dealing with the consequences of Hurricane Katrina, doctors from the European Union were not allowed to work in this federal state. The conference also mentioned the incompatibility or inadequacy of appliances and devices. The team comes to the ground in a foreign country, into a foreign environment, and they run into technical inadequacy or electrical tension, various connections, water connections. And at this point, the need for initiatives for gradual integration or the development of a plan to at least make these leaky places from different suppliers so unified that the international rescue team, when it comes to some foreign territory, can start work immediately, and can use equipment because without it, it is only on the way and cannot be effectively solved. The earthquake also showed that the border crossing with rescue dogs was too complicated. Before the documentation was settled, the victim was so incorrigible that the action was essentially unsuccessful. On the basis of this, I ask two questions. Above all, on the basis of current experience and changed conditions, how are we preparing for an effective disaster response in Slovenia? And second question: How will Slovenia give such initiatives abroad, internationally, to harmonise standards and remove bureaucratic barriers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you for your question. In fact, it is very topical in view of what happened in Slovenia last week. I can only confirm that these problems exist in the international space. That's very nice of you to describe them. These are bureaucratic obstacles when, for example, paramedics cannot solve because they do not, for example, have a work permit or, as you mentioned, for dogs, a permit to import a dog, the equipment is not harmonised. That's actually how these problems exist. Indeed, what you have said is that nature is becoming less and less friendly, and that is why the consequences of these natural disasters are increasing, and also the dimensions are increasing. I think that the European Union will need to pay more attention to these threats because they are actually those threats that affect the population and have essentially the same consequences as for example war threats. What will we do in Slovenia to improve this? Here I must say that we have revised all the legislation, I have already mentioned it today and it will be necessary to strengthen certain services. The latest accident has shown that even more attention will have to be paid to strengthening civil protection services, a firefighter's organisation, both professional and voluntary, which we are developing as a general rescue service, and it has also proved reasonable to continue to develop a system of civil protection cooperation with the Slovenian Army. And I must say that this concept, that it is also a concept that develops within the European Union in cooperation also with NATO, because one of the main problems is the lack of capacity for transport. Remember the tsunamis, Katarina and so on, and it turns out that we are malnourished with regard to these air transport capabilities. Here I believe that Slovenia, and we also have this in the programme, will improve these abilities by purchasing some more helicopters in the long term, and in the short term we also have a plan to purchase a medium-sized transport aircraft. I have to say that all of this aid, which we have been providing, for example, because of the tsunamis, because of Katarina, we have been giving it with foreign transport capabilities, and ultimately transport is even more expensive than the means we send. Let me say that Slovenia is very actively involved in assistance when it comes to international assistance. This year we helped in Greece, then in Macedonia, in Montenegro with helicopter capabilities, but I must say that there is a need for caution, we know what happened in Croatia, that it is nice to make a quick decision to help, but all these actions must be very well prepared, the teams are well-trained, because then we can get revenge. I must say that we will also do all the analysis, both in Croatia and in the Railways, when we know what kind of disaster has struck us, to see what else needs to be done, given that the scale and scale of these accidents are increasing tremendously. I have to say, I was among the first in the Railways, and people didn't expect such a natural disaster to happen. I think we're not just going to watch what happened on TV anymore, but it's going to happen to us. It will therefore be necessary to adapt the system of protection and resolution to these new situations and, of course, also [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces. [[...]] With regard to our EU Presidency, I must say that one of the priorities will be to renovate the civil protection mechanisms that deal with all these issues that you have mentioned - bureaucratic obstacles and not to mention everything - but the main task will be, if there is a major natural disaster, to the international, we as the Presidency then cooperate with [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the European Commission monitoring and information centre, together with the European Commission and the country affected by such an accident. [[...]] I have to say that we have continuous theoretical exercises within the EU [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u102	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u103	In fact, I thank the Minister for his reply. Something, perhaps additional, tiny details, came out of his answer. You mentioned this successful rescue of our rescue helicopter in Greece, and I thought to myself then - I wish they were happy that something like this would not happen to our boys like this in Croatia. Of course, an analysis of how this happened. In part, I would abuse this question. As I come from the vicinity of Železnikov, a commendable response is either the Slovenian Army or firefighters. Every day, when I drive to Ljubljana, I encounter military vehicles, including heavy machinery, and especially firefighters who replace their tired colleagues. But there's something else I'd like to make up for. The importance of information and, above all, the importance of the local media has proved to be very important, that there was no big panic in the lower-down Škofja Loka, or that it was resolved where it was most urgent, a local radio station played a major role, as well as now that it informs you that you are not going there unorganized, what we need, what are the greatest needs. It's that positive role of local media. Or maybe there is. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I mean, especially when it was the second day, I think that it was a commercial broadcast, that it found five disgruntled outside the area of the accident and they were looking for hair in the egg. [[...]] Of course, minor errors may occur in such an action, but in general, there have been adequate units there to work if they have committed a minor error is in that rescue effect. But I can't agree [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that basically the media then pour pepper and salt into the wound, are in the way of rescuers and spread ill will. [[...]] Is there a system to prevent this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u105	I do not know such a system to prevent it, but it was actually a catastrophe of great proportions and I am not saying that there was no mistake. But I'm glad that, in fact, the response was very quick and effective. I have to say, Tuesday, when this happened, we had 344 people from civil protection, military, firefighters 180, and 5,600 people have so far participated only in the Railways. This suggests that we are actually quite well prepared, but I think there are still a lot of reserves. In fact, one of the problems is communication and communication. The new Tetra system will have to be implemented here as soon as possible. We have also seen that in the event of such natural disasters there may also be chemical problems, as in the Niko factory, when a chemical spill occurred, that it is very important that we have these capacities so that they can quickly clean it up because otherwise this damage can be avenged in the long run. I think I agree with what you said. I think there will be a need to make a thorough analysis of where the weaknesses in efficiency in resolution have been identified. For the time being, I think that things have been done well for us to manage the situation. But, like I said, we're still expected to be hit by such accidents. The main problem now is what happens on Wednesday. If it rains, I have to say that things are going to get complicated, but we have every force at our disposal for this case as well. I think we're gonna be able to fix this thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will ask the Minister without a charter responsible for coordinating and monitoring and implementing the development strategy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Dr. Mark Turk! It's been a long time since you were appointed Minister of Development. At the time of his appointment as Minister, it was noted in your presentation that the promised reforms of this government, in the form it had predicted, would not be. In particular those reforms that would make the Slovenian economy more competitive, and consequently, of course, the Slovenian worker and the worker more paid. At the time of appointment, many Members and Members also discussed the very importance of the core you are leading, as we know that the Government has taken away its own development service's responsibilities and responsibilities in the area of financial, human and other business. And it's also my feeling that this work of the department or the ministry is the same as it is of jurisdiction. In reviewing the ministry's activities, I did not encounter or detect some major activities, which would lead to a prejudication of major projects or visions for the development of Slovenia, because by talking about high economic growth, I would expect more activities in this area or for the development of Slovenia. As far as I have been able to search the Internet and get information, most of your work revolves around the Lisbon strategy or the implementation of the Lisbon strategy in Slovenia. To this end, you have also appointed a Council of Experts to monitor the 4 key areas of the Lisbon Strategy. Last week, Minister, in the National Assembly, you explained the report on the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia. When I listened to you, I must say that although I was satisfied with the report, I was also surprised how everything is beautiful in Slovenia and how you drink honey and milk. However, as a Member of Parliament and the Mayor, who in principle is moving a lot among people, I am not sure that satisfaction is such or I am sure that most people would disagree with the report. I therefore ask you, Minister, how do you assess its implementation in Slovenia as the coordinator for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy? What have you, as Minister and as Director, contributed specifically to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy? And: How do contributions show up in better development, in greater prosperity, which actually means that people can afford more and not less today, which is clear to anyone who enters the store? I would also like to ask: What concrete measures will you adapt to or change your tactics in achieving the Lisbon objectives as a result of rising prices of living needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you so much for asking. Your Honor! So, in assessing the Lisbon Strategy, I join the assessment of Brussels, which, in its assessment of Slovenia's progress, wrote that Slovenia is making good progress, this is the second best possible assessment, received by four other countries, the two countries have been better assessed, their progress has been assessed as very good. Another study by the prestigious institute estimated that the fourth fastest in Europe for Denmark, Sweden and the United Kingdom, and I agree with these estimates. What have I contributed to the Lisbon strategy as a minister or my portfolio? The Lisbon Strategy is a broad set of objectives that is not achieved by a single ministry, not only by the Government, but also by Parliament, social partners, businesses and entrepreneurs. The Slovenian reform programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy is based on a strategy for the development of Slovenia, which began in the previous mandate, which this Government has concluded and which could represent, namely, a strategy for the development of Slovenia, the basis for a consensus on essential development issues. If this were the case, if we agreed on the need for changes without figs in their pockets, if the parties did not support exactly any narrow interest group just because they opposed the government, then we could achieve more. The idea of putting what is wise ahead of what is opportunistic and beneficial to a party is essential if we are to take the most developed in Europe seriously. In the framework of the Lisbon Strategy, the Government's Development Service has two tasks; the first task is to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia and the second task is to plan a new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy within the EU and in particular our presidency in spring 2008. With regard to the first, the Government's Development Service reviews all legal proposals and assesses their reform or Lisbon orientation. For example, for a proposal for a new labour law, it found that it met cca. 80. 90% of all goals, even of which is very important. The government's political decision is, after such a review, to assess whether it respects the agreement reached between the social partners, or whether it has sufficient support in Parliament between development partners and elsewhere in order to take a longer step. How contributions are reflected in better development, general priorities, etc.? In the Government, we are convinced that the reform measures that were in place during the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy also contribute to good economic growth in addition to the European conjuction. We have 6.5% economic growth, a fall in unemployment below 5% and a drop in the number of social assistance needed by 30%. Now, if a politician were to fight only for the votes of the electorate, then, like you, I would empatheticly say what the Slovenes want to hear, because they are living worse and worse; but I will not join in consolidating the opinion of how we live in the valley of tears, in ever-increasing poverty and lack. In fact, we are doing quite well, and it is time for us to be a little more confident about it. On the other hand, someone who actually lives in short supply does not want to be fooled by how much real wages have increased in one year, because he is not really interested in the average, and there is nothing on the average for the better. The Lisbon Strategy aims at growth and jobs, and if we achieve these goals, then all Slovenians will live better. What are we going to do about the growth of living needs? The rise in prices of living needs has its roots in price trends in global markets. It is likely that they also reflect euro takeover, retention or suppression of price rises before euro takeover, and our actions will go mainly in three directions. Firstly, towards neutralising inflationary expectations, which are sometimes raised by panicky, sensational treatment of this issue. Secondly, in order to prevent higher food prices from falling into wages and consequently reduce competitiveness. In fact, if the cheese is more expensive, it is not why a tailor’s work or a teacher is no longer worth anything. Thirdly, in the direction of consistent use of existing social mechanisms to help those who are also affected by more expensive food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. It may sound political, but you haven't convinced me with your answers. And more. I have been confirmed by what I also read on your blog, which you write in the evening when people ask you, the Minister, how to handle the prices of full-life needs or why they are too expensive or how we can buy milk, and you answer that we can buy milk in such a way that administratively we can reduce the price of milk - as a counter argument you are shaken by a few jokes about Milka Planinc - and, secondly, you have said that you can increase wages, then you have an answer when you say that people should start drinking less milk, and you advise people to buy in Hofer where you will also go shopping yourself, so that it seems really unrealistic to me. And the second is that people have to cut spending on something else to have more for milk. I don't think the ministry you're in charge of would have expected such soft answers. And even less so that you can tell us that we are some who in some ways point out the serious situation in the country, that we are politicians and that we are collecting political points. Therefore, for the answer that I believe I know what it will be, I thank you in advance, and I hope that you will be more specific in the following answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much for your blog reference. I'm glad you're reading it. I don't know if you got it right. I have actually tried to impose some possibilities there, which in the market economy, I stress in the market economy that we have decided on, we have to translate the encouragement of food so that it will not stop our development and the good economic path on which Slovenia is now. The administrative fixing of milk prices is certainly not the solution to be used. Just as I have already explained today, adjusting wages to raise some part of the costs that citizens have, neither do they. As I said, if the milk is provoked, so is not mine, not yours, nor the work of any militiaman, teacher, professor, tailor - this is why this thing is no longer worth anything and we must do everything to inspire the food that is, for this there are good numbers that have reasons in the events in the world markets so that it does not spill into our inflation spiral. We have lived too long in a country where inflation has been a habit, where every regular inflation has been taken into account in determining its prices. Now we no longer have such a situation, we also have a foreign currency where, with the exchange rate, we cannot influence the competitiveness of our companies, and it would be wise of all of us to try to do everything possible to ensure that inflation does not start pushing itself. Now we have a situation where inflation may be fuelled by food prices, if we take steps in the direction that we all expect to be irritable, then we will get to the spiral, reduce competitiveness and then no more growth. However, our growth is based, of course, on large exports, and competitiveness is required for these exports. And of course -- yeah, if food is too expensive, I'm going to a cheaper store, too, and I'm going to look at what kind of stuff in the supermarket costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc will ask the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Justice. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Pursuant to the provisions of Article 8 of the Personal Data Protection Act, personal data may be processed only if the processing of personal data and personal data processed are governed by the law or if a personal right of an individual is given for the processing of certain personal data. The purpose of the processing of personal data must be laid down in the law and, in the case of processing on the basis of the individual’s personal consent, the individual must be informed in advance in writing or in any other appropriate manner with a view to processing personal data. Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government provides that municipalities shall carry out local matters of public interest independently, the original tasks set out by the general act of the municipality or by a specific law. The Community shall, inter alia, carry out the tasks of promoting the social welfare service, pre-school care, basic child and family protection, for socially disadvantaged persons with disabilities and the elderly, and shall carry out the tasks of caring for these categories of citizens. For this purpose, the municipality sends the citizens, on their own initiative, greetings on the birthdays of the elderly, cash assistance at the birth of the child, elementary accidents and others. The municipality of Sevnica had to stop the activities mentioned above since, under the supervision of the information officer, it was found that the municipality of Sevnica was in breach of the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, since the municipality did not obtain the appropriate written consent of the citizens before sending the cards on birthdays and the above-mentioned monetary assistance. Mr. Minister, I ask: Is it true that under the law in force, a citizen should submit to the mayor a role or consent to be sent a congratulations card at the time of his anniversary - 80, 90, 100 years of age? I ask: Is this too much data protection for one simple wax? Do the municipalities really not have a legal basis for carrying out activities related to caring for the elderly and other categories of citizens, where a congratulations can also be given on their birthday, which citizens accept with great joy? Ter: Do the municipalities have to or may they at all determine these activities by means of general acts, such as those of the local community, without the written consent of individuals? In the event that municipalities fail to carry out their activities legally, I propose to the professional services that by amending the legislation we allow local communities to implement legitimately [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the above-mentioned activities without burdening individuals with written consent, as I have already said, for example, that citizens send their consent to the mayor so simply to send them a congratulations, which means so much to the elderly. [[...]] Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The Minister of Public Affairs has just been absent. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for asking, too. The legal basis for the processing of personal data shall be laid down in Articles 21 and 21a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which means that the municipality may only process personal data there for the purpose of carrying out administrative tasks for which it is competent on the basis of regulations, either within the framework of its original or transferred competence. Therefore, the purpose of the processing of personal data is clearly set out in the law and, in terms of the performance of the administrative tasks of the municipality, does not include the sending of cards and similar activities, since it is certainly not a matter of local administration and self-government. An additional system or reserve basis is laid down in Article 9 of the Personal Data Protection Act. This Article lays down the legal basis for the processing of personal data in the public sector, including municipalities. On that basis, the congregation cannot send greetings to older citizens because there is no legal basis for this. In other words, for possible additional administrative tasks, where the content and purpose of the administrative tasks are actually administrative, they must be systematically laid down in the Law on Local Self-Government and in other sectoral laws governing the tasks or obligations of the municipalities. This position is particularly useful with regard to cash assistance at the birth of a child, elementary accidents and the like, since it is undoubtedly the tasks of the social state which the municipalities can perform by having those tasks laid down in the law, since this also means that the purpose of processing personal data is to be determined. With regard to the issue of sending greetings to older citizens for their birthdays, there is no legal basis for such sending and thus related processing of personal data of older citizens. Finally, we estimate that a possible future determination in the Local Self-Government Act would allow the municipality to obtain and process the personal data of older citizens in order to provide them with greeting cards on certain dates, namely, to judge the appropriateness or inappropriateness of this arrangement in the National Assembly itself. However, I must point out that the legal matter in the Law on Local Self-Government must be limited to the administrative tasks of the municipality and not to other areas of a more private nature. Therefore, the possible legal arrangements for the collection and processing of personal data of older citizens for those purposes could also be disproportionate and therefore constitutionally disputed in the light of the provisions of Article 38 concerning the second and third paragraphs of Article 13 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also answer the question whether, of course, the information officer has issued an appropriate decision on this, there is a possible appeal against this decision before the Administrative Court and it is then up to the Administrative Court to decide the matter definitively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u119	Mr Minister, thank you for the answer that you have given very officially, non-lifely, as regards the mission of local communities, not least the mayor to his citizens. Believe me, these gestures have not only been performed in the municipality of Sevnica, but many Slovene municipalities have been doing this for many years. I think it's a good gesture and it means a lot to older citizens. One lady once said to me, "This means more than a medal to me at the World Cup when I get your card." And on a jubilee like 70, 80, 90 or even 100 years, believe me, for these older citizens, this is a pleasant surprise. However, I will certainly not go into this in a complaint to the decision of the information officer because it seems to me that this is not the right way. I speak not only on behalf of the municipality of Sevnica, but all 210 Slovene municipalities. However, with some good consideration, perhaps some relief would be made in positive legislation, but for exceptional cases, even mayors or citizens could be allowed to send congratulations to those who have a problem with it, I will say, protecting the personal data we have - and right to have them. [[...]] I think it could be with a little good will, a compromise. I doubt it. And I am sure that this National Assembly, with a large majority, would certainly accept such a thing as a positive thing for the good of the congregation to its citizens. If you're not in love, then let's stop this good practice. Today it is our turn, tomorrow it will be another congregation, and I do not think it will be good for everyone else who may not have done such practices in their congregations, but perhaps; with this decision and this case they will certainly not be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Would you like another word, Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you for this additional comment, honourable Member, but I must only repeat what I have said. The appropriateness of legislation is in the legislator's hands. However, its constitutionality or unconstitutionality is in the hands of the Constitutional Court. Such an arrangement could be constitutionally controversial if we are to reach a secure regime, and we need to consider amending the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontič will ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister for Transport. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, present at today's session. The third development axis was and is probably still the direction of the current government. It has been for several months since I asked the question of how this project is progressing here in the Member States, and I say in advance that I will ask this question for as long as it is not possible to drive on this road. Of course, it depends on how long I sit in these parliamentary benches. In due course, I hope that this road will also see the light of the world. I am sure that this project is working intensively, but lately there has been little information on what is going on, although it is also quite clear to me that until things are mature, they are very difficult to communicate to the public, because they can wake up to discomfort and, in certain cases, resistance that may not be needed at this time. So I want to know, how is this project coming along? The answer can be given to the extent to which the Minister is assessed that we can also be answered at this time, but I am also asking this question as a result of the state of existing roads linking Velenje to the highway. Command was, along with the Valley of Shale and, as a result, Koroška, cut off from the world for some time in this storm. So the main road that connects our city to the highway was flooded and thus closed and at that point asked everyone how to solve or how to act if, say, rescue was necessary. At the same time, it is also essential to note that the remaining roads are in catastrophic condition, at least this Velenje-Polzela and then on the highway cross, that much better is not the Velenje-Smartno road along the Paki-Sentrupert, which is partly being restored, but in part the interventions are such that the upper layer is slightly photographed and at least I hope that this will not go to the level of the macadam, that there will be a number of means in advance for this road to be settled. Therefore, it is important when a fast road, which is somehow the backbone of the third development axis, will see the light of the world. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. I'll answer about the spatial work myself, then the mag. It's a crane. First, I would like to say that I have been on some of the roads mentioned by the Member; and you are right, especially for some of the road routes if something happens on the main road. Otherwise, the third development axis was and is still the direction of the Slovenian government and the project is progressing well. Seven steps have taken place since your last question in March this year. In March, on the basis of the procedures for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan, we produced the first phase, which were preliminary analyses and variants. Second step: On 5 June these were presented to all municipalities from the area of this State Spatial Plan. The third step, very important, at this presentation, was proposed by the municipalities of Upper Desavin for an additional variant, which, following the construction and environmental verification, met the criteria that were taken into account when defining the options for further evaluation and during their comparison, so it was included in the already defined options for further evaluation and comparison. Step four - here begins a little less information than you yourself have found. This was followed by the development of professional evaluation and comparison bases, which is a construction technical laboratory, an economic, development and urban and environmental report. The fifth step was the comparison between them, the mutual evaluation under these criteria, and in particular their acceptability in the local environment, which is a very important criterion for these comparisons. The sixth, very important, is being concluded in these days with a proposal for the most appropriate alternative solution - according to the deadline plan, this is expected to happen in a few weeks, perhaps by the end of September - and once this review has taken place, we will present the most appropriate alternative solution to the municipalities in this area. This is supposed to happen by the end of October. This is going to be a very important moment. Then what happens first? The development of a complementary draft complementary State Spatial Plan on the basis of a proposal for the most appropriate alternative solution, then a public decommissioning, a public hearing, then a proposal for a State Spatial Plan and the adoption of a Regulation on the Government's national location plan. Already in place - the regulation is the basis for obtaining a building permit - we will already try to keep some procedures parallel, but not contrary to the law, this also applies to the issue of land purchases. So much for our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Crane, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Commissioner, I don't really know if I should repeat everything my colleague has already said. I can say that, indeed, over the last three months, these comparative studies have been working very intensively on variants that provide the professional basis for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. In the preparation of spatial acts we are the longest on the northern part of the third development axis, in these days a comparative study of variants is concluded and the proposal comes with the most appropriate version of the solution. From here forward to the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, which is a condition for initiating the preparation of the project documentation and the acquisition of the necessary land, the decommissioning depends to a large extent also on the constructive cooperation of local communities and land regulators. I hope that we will be as successful as possible in coordinating. The contracting authority of the study is, of course, DARS, since the construction of this part of the new road connection is already defined in the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, in an additional programme of course. In parallel, a study on the eligibility of the construction of a new road in the corridor of the third development axis, which is already in the final stage of production, is under way. The study will identify, on the basis of the transport and economic evaluation, the phases of construction with regard to eligibility, taking into account the construction phase and the recording of potential funding sources, identified possible concepts or financing models for the construction of road links. In recent months, the Ministry of Transport has also prepared a proposal to spend resources on the preparation of documentation and the construction of new road links on the third development axis and has included it in the 2008 and 2009 draft budget and in the 2013 Development Programme Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I thank both ministers for their answers. I also hope that we can find a way to get this road into space faster. I am aware that there will be some problems, in order to avoid these problems already in advance, that there will be a need to think about the fifth largest city in Slovenia, an economically strong centre, and that this must be borne in mind when you are preparing a solution or placement in space. The answer now also showed that the major problems with financial resources should not be and that somehow you can see the financing of the construction of this road itself. Now, if I have just heard, I would ask you to just ask me whether this is true, because several times in the past it has been expressed or doubted that the most difficult provision will, of course, be the acquisition of these funds and that the decision on how to finance the implementation of this project has not yet been taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you. Here you go, please. Mr. Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Here, of course, we are counting on cohesion policy funds or cohesion funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Also Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I would also like to touch on the subject that Mr Kontič has opened, which is coordination, field work, coordination of different interests, especially from the point of view of local communities. It is understandable that Velenje has a central status here, as it is given by the very nature of this centre, which is economically and otherwise. I would like to say that, during the preparation of the studies of variants and professional bases, our manufacturers of relevant materials or materials have been at numerous meetings with space regulators, especially with the municipalities, and some potential conflicts have already been resolved, some of them still small. Here we ask for patience, and something small has happened in the upper part, where we did not expect, between the two congregations, and we want to resolve this in some confidential, credible relationship. This is very important. Also, our manufacturers of this project, although I have been a skeptic to this, have also participated in various public presentations, expert consultations, field visits and have been relatively up-to-date in preparing various information on the progress of the procedure for different public, both professionally and politically, so I believe that this procedure is very credible. In fact, the key phase will now take place within a month when we present the most appropriate alternative solution to the municipalities. We keep our fingers crossed that this option will be good and then we'll move on intensely. Here I would also like to appeal to the participation of the elected Members from here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr. Minister, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question, Mr Minister, as we have already announced, relates to the storms a few days ago, which have simply exposed the poor functioning of the current water management system and the water infrastructure. To understand right from the beginning, of course, this is not an indication of your current work and government action in the event of this serious elementary accident, I think the response was appropriate, maximum, all efforts have been made, but I am concerned about something. At these times, when we build roads where they have already been taken, we forget about those roads, those areas, dams, coastal walls, storms, where they will be taken on Wednesday or Thursday, if these predictions are fulfilled, as forecasted by the Timekeepers. That's what you call Wednesday and Thursday. Stronger precipitation. For the congregation from which I come, I tell you that in certain areas this will be a real disaster, and the railways will be repeated sooner or later, anywhere else in Gorenjska, the question is only, when. After this reaction, of course, I expected that the water security services as water managers would be on the ground the next day, just as we, locals, firefighters, utilities, people volunteering, but to this day no one has fixed the damaged dams, no one has cleaned the flooded and dogged partitions, examined, definitively described the below coastal walls and done at least the most urgent work in the trenches. In a lot of municipalities in Gorenjsk there was no bagger this week, no truck. On the highway, on the mountain route, there are now several hundred trucks and several hundred working machines. I hope that you activate them on Wednesday and Thursday, whenever anything like this happens again, at my disposal, I will say in the slogans, "with the engines on fire" to go wherever action can be taken. Because some data shows that if the jobs are ready, if the people are at the canals, at the bars, at the lattices, at the small hydropower plants, then even at a time of severe hours to save a lot of things and fix them. I am mainly interested in these preventive measures: Why are they gone and when will they be? And otherwise, if the system is such that it does not allow interventions in several places at once in Slovenia, then try at least the financial injections to the municipalities, assign them to specific cases and with those local means that we are overpowering, we will try to do the most necessary thing that can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, Mag. Savoy. Thank you, too, for the correctness in his question, where he also assessed the positive work of the Government and the competent authority after the first part. We appreciate that. On the other hand, we are not insensitive to criticism, but we are glad to be commended. First, Wednesday and Thursday, there'll be no misunderstanding. All our concessionaries, all of the environmental agency's exhibits have been commissioned since last Friday to be on the ground, within their technical and other options, to do everything to ensure that the interventional conductivity of the most affected watercourses is established in such a way that slightly higher water levels can occur at the end of this week so that they do not cause additional damage on the watercourses themselves, on the facilities, on the property of the people, on the property of the property, etc. I have also found an additional source of redistribution for these interventions as Minister. They won't be small. Also this week, I will propose to the Government that those municipalities affected by earth’s reptiles and fate be given the opportunity and that they themselves will be given the opportunity, namely, the municipalities, the money, the professional supervision and the correct reports, as some of the reptiles also threaten watercourses, infrastructure, municipal roads, water pipelines, and, above all, numerous houses and other facilities. If necessary, our concessionaires will additionally engage other funds, i.e. also the technical ones you discussed. It is a serious issue of the organisation of the Slovenian water service itself, and I agree that in recent years, several attempts have been made over the past decades and have not proved to be the happiest. I have once answered your question on this subject, and one of the key guidelines I announced at the time is the new regulation of public services in the field of water. However, since I believe in the new concept and also believe in the provinces, I would like to say that the current regime in the form of concessional public services is contrary to the principle of a free market for services in the European Union in that it is no longer possible for an individual concessionaire who is a person of private law to provide more lasting public service services in the same water area. And also a longer period of implementation of such a public service in the field of water on a riverbed - this is all that has ensured that such a public service provider is sufficiently qualified. This, however, requires us to go in the direction of organising this segment in the form of one or more public enterprises. That is why, and here is an important proposal, in the proposal of the provincial law, which is now in inter-resortmental coordination, we have proposed that public water management services be organised in four river basins, namely Sava, Mura, Drava and Savinja, and in the river basins of the Adriatic rivers in these areas in the form of joint public enterprises, or that we leave the possibility of establishing joint directings, this would, in our opinion, provide in particular the greater water presence that you have been talking about, especially on the side inflows of our major rivers, while also leaving the possibility of establishing long-term stable implementation and training, according to our assessment, most likely the five such water organisations. We have also proposed in the proposal for a law on landscapes that the resources of the water fund should be allocated to the provinces, but at the same time, this is the subject of a budgetary debate, in order to obtain additional resources for the water fund to regulate the inflows of our main rivers, in particular to regulate the icy waters or settlements in the area of these river basins. So it's a topic to go on. This is an important news. I expect a lot of debate about it, but I think that we will give great jurisdiction to the provinces, but if we organise ourselves properly, we will also give the water profession the weight it deserves. Now only a comment from the point of view of the Minister responsible for this area. This last great water touch revealed three. Those investments and water facilities, which were conducted professionally and carried out to the end, have maintained these large pools. This recognition is both professional and performers, where there was no maintenance or lack of maintenance, with even greater harmful consequences. However, we must also self-critically conclude that the type of population and culture of settlement in Slovenia is such that sometimes it literally causes more problems. At the same time, this also applies to forest owners, who have, especially in recent times, since they have been intensively exploited, forgotten their responsibility and have also filled many logs with debris from the logging forests. A competent inspectorate plays an important role here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I must say that with your answers and your thoughts I am satisfied, they go in the right direction. A simple patent must be that we leave part of water management to the local community, because no one knows better when the stream is full, when some anger is broken, when what barriers are blocked, than those living in that local environment. Of course, financial arrangements will also have to be made. It is a fact, however, that now that we are addressing these waterfronts, the standard response is that at this moment all the funds go to the flood embankments on Mura and to edit the lower Sava. I have to say that this thinking would be worth all the more, because statistics show that, for example, 66 million old money, which was intended to regulate watercourses in Gorenjska last year, we spent barely half of it last year, and this year almost nothing, we practically didn't invest anything. And another important initiative and question. The municipalities often resort to road rehabilitations along watercourses. I think that there should also be a patent for ministries, that when we go to the construction of a railway, some new roads, say, in the flood zone or in the center of the city, that along with the road they also regulate the shores. At that time, I think that the effect of everything would be maximum and that, for example, the Ministry would find out what these planned investments are in the coming years and that we would participate in them in a coordinated manner with both the locals and the relevant services at the ministries. However, it is also an interesting policy in the relationship of guides to roads. Here's a picture of where there's still a road and 200 people have access, if the leaders don't do theirs, then the inhabitants of Jelendola and the valleys will be out of access to the house before winter, but today they have a road. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Thank you for this additional question or suggestions. First of all, it is true that there was some kind of conflict between the travelers and the guides, I would say, which was mainly conditioned by the fact that the leaders had professional solutions - how, but they were generally financially malnourished and failed to follow the significantly stronger road sections or road trips - in a positive sense of the word. Now is an opportunity, including this natural disaster, that this partnership, namely the contemporaneity of one system and another, will happen. You're talking about the floodgates near Mura. We need to continue this project and continue. We did a lot last year, we continued this year. It is important and right that, in the event of a major project to build a chain on the lower Sava from a water and flood perspective, we also monitor this large project through the water fund instrument, and we will do so, but together we can find that we have run out partly of other watercourses. That is why we will do two here, I hope that we will be able to strengthen the budget lines. Secondly, in the framework of the mechanisms that exist in the European Union, in particular the functioning of certain funds - one is cohesion and the other may be regional - with certain substantive transfers that will need to be coordinated with the Commission, we will be able to achieve that some major misdemeanors, which have been heavily burdened and damaged in the last storm, can be co-financed by this European money as a priority. Here I see this important injection and then we continue with the normal work ahead, and at the same time we hope that we will succeed in taking this part away from some other projects, then we will be reimbursed from the European Solidarity Fund, which is intended for these purposes. But, here are longer procedures, usually takes about six months, they say this fund is operational. So here I see, even if I look a little further, the financial possibility that this time recovery will be successful, and at the same time as a minister I will also set up an additional expert group of experienced Slovenian leaders, builders, maybe meteorologists, who will [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] have a strategic view of these issues and may have answered any of the professional challenges facing the water industry as well as the transport profession. [[...]] One of the difficult questions, including professionally, is how to get on the state road between Zali Log and Taxa: whether to follow an existing route or find a new one. Here I expect clear views of the most competent Slovenian water profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will ask the question of the Member of Parliament Excuse me, Mr Saiovic, please. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Chairman. In accordance with the relevant Article of the Rules of Procedure, I would request a debate at tomorrow's meeting on the Minister's response, not as usual when Members request an answer because the Minister, or she has explained, was not correct and clear, but simply because the answers were appropriate, but the whole breadth of the story is not sufficient. We need to devote more time to these issues, more attention, and I think it is a good time and a good time to discuss this and reward these answers with concrete action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u144	I would like to say, Mr Member, that the debate on this is possible only if the answer was not satisfactory, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] [[background advertising]] [[...]] Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Tomaž Strabe. He will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I ask for clarification on the actions of the Ministry - or even more regulatory agencies - regarding the identification and action in the field of margins or prices of basic food and medicines. This is about regulation in ensuring competition or even more, it is about preventing cartel bargaining. It is abnormal, for example, that for the price of bread, competition on the market does not work and a margin gap can be created for the seller, which is 6 times higher than the raw material and is even higher than the cost of production and transport. It may also be good to hear about other similar problems that occur in our country, where, at least in my opinion, independent regulators either find or act in an inefficient manner in similar cases. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u146	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In opening, let me make it very clear once again that the prices of basic life products are not regulated, that these prices are freely shaped on the basis of agreements, agreements, business arrangements between suppliers and traders. Therefore, the State does not have any regulatory powers and levers to determine either the level of retail prices of the basic necessities of life, to which these, which have also been most irritated lately, nor the margin of traders, are included. Of course, it is the responsibility of the Offices, including the Competition Authority, to identify possible arrangements or cartel arrangements between trade organisations or supply networks, to in fact develop a common approach to others in the chain and thus to blackmail or consolidate their position. As far as this is concerned, the Competition Authority has initiated a procedure before final decisions are drawn up and on the basis of questionnaires sent to suppliers and traders alike, the power is already - therefore, on the basis of a 36 % response, to find out the following. Transparency is questionable or at a very low level, especially when we are talking about transparency in displaying retail prices in relation to the shares acquired by an individual in this chain. This is said to be the price of the supplier, the different margins and ratings, and ultimately the tax. Indeed, the agreements on this, the margins and ratings are agreements between suppliers and traders, and innovation is particularly great here. In fact, some super ratings are being introduced for, for example, for the strengthening of the brand, for the expansion of the market, for the payment of non-discipline, including for donations and sponsorships to various cultural, sports organisations. So all of this is part of a retail price, which is also the fruit of the fact that traders have become significantly more consolidated in the restructuring so far, while the supply network remains more or less unrelated and even more vulnerable. Thus, the dependence of domestic suppliers on traders is well established, especially where this applies to markets of other countries. In fact, domestic suppliers can enter other markets, where Slovenian traders also have their own shops and shops, only in this way. Different traders also have different approaches, especially with regard to the level of margins in discounts and ratings, and they also pay for different structures. I also have to say here that the bread prices still apply to the so-called retail principle where the supplier sets the price, but the price structure is determined by this and is in some way negotiated between the supplier and the trader. This is not this classic principle that the supplier at a certain price sells to the trader and the trader at all of this hangs his margins and then comes to some retail price, but reverse route. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Therefore, the Competition Authority has initiated procedures and we are working to explore all elements of a possible agreement between traders on this common approach. I must say, however, that even with the discussion on this subject, with the involvement of the Ministry of Economy, some pressure has been exerted on each other and others in the pricing segment, particularly after a clear presentation. I also have data coming to me, both from traders and suppliers, regarding their views and I believe that we will avoid abuse through a common approach and engagement in spite of this non-regulation or free pricing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mag. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I would still ask you how would you comment on, say, the information we hear in public, that there is more than 50% margin on the bread, that's what a trader would get with all the tricks he turns on. For car salesmen, as I've been asking myself, these margins are actually lousy, 2%, 5%. While both traders have to have a sales space, in some ways they also have to advertise selling these two different products, the difficulty of selling cars is probably disproportionate compared to the difficulty of selling bread or milk. In addition, I am interested in: how do you comment on extremely high margins also in some medicines, where manufacturers don't actually bother to do so, but it looks like some great profits mainly to sellers, in this case a pharmacy. However, I would not now open up the subject of other problems as to how regulators act in other areas. I am aware that these regulators, that the independent authorities have been appointed mainly from the period of the previous governments, have indeed been unable to intervene here by the Ministry. However, I have asked you a question, because in fact I can only make it public for you, but I cannot directly and in fact it is not appropriate for you to set it up for regulators. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u150	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I think it's very difficult to compare goods like bread and a car. The car is probably a week old to sell, while the bread is only possible for a few crumbs. So each item has its own specifications and it would be difficult to evaluate. But it is true that the system is different. In the case of the car it is such that the manufacturer gives the car to the trader at a certain purchase value and then adds a margin and something else, while, once again, the price of the bread is the opposite, namely the retail principle where the supplier sets the price and arranges the trader and the supplier all the other things then in accordance with the business arrangement. However, it is true that in certain articles where the supplier’s price or the price of raw materials, which has actually been undermined by global impacts, such as the increased price of cereals, flour, is not taken absolutely into account in raising the price, the retail price, but everyone still relatively adds to it. If we know that in the bread price structure there is, say, 9% of the price of flour, and if it is up 10% or 20% or 50%, this does not mean that bread has to be priced for so many percent, because if everyone keeps an absolute margin, this is called a nominal margin, then such an article is worth relatively little. It is necessary to prevent everyone in this chain from adding a percentage because only raw material has been irritated. As for the price of medicines, this is a completely different picture. The market for medicinal products is regulated and controlled by the Agency for Medicinal Products, of course only in the case of medicines for free sale can be acted upon and, by decision, the Office for Competition Protection of February 2005 has also established and banned a cartel agreement and is currently monitoring these activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. The minister's gone. Do you still want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He wants to ask a question, and I would ask if he could have an oral answer at the next meeting. I will also talk about the retail price, but not the one that is growing, but is falling and regulated by the state. On 10 March this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation laying down the regulatory area of the international border crossing of Babno Polje, and on 18 April this year adopted a regulation supplementing this Regulation due to certain infrastructure issues, namely electricity, water and so on, which must be regulated. On the basis of these two acts, land repurchase and compensation offers are also made to conclude real estate service contracts necessary for the construction of this and other border crossing points. But the amounts offered for the purchase of land are shamefully low, which, of course, causes dissatisfaction and great anger for the owners of these lands. It is also difficult or almost impossible to negotiate and implement proposals from owners with those who are preparing buy-back contracts on behalf of the Ministry of Public Administration. Also, the valuations made by the authorised valueholders who do this for the country are miserable and unacceptable to these people. EUR 13 per square metre of first-class agricultural land right next to the house. Finally, it is also the inequality of citizens when they find themselves in relation to the country, because for the same land on the edge of Ljubljana, the owner would receive 10 to 15 times the purchase price that the citizen in Babno Polje receives. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister, in view of the fact that he has repeatedly stressed the importance of promoting equality before the law, fairness in the use of budgetary money and compensation for land paid by the State from the tax bag and needed to achieve greater social interest, regardless of where it is done, whether it is in Babna Polje or in Ljubljana: Is some more than 12,000 euros for more than a thousand square metres of agricultural land right next to the apartment house worth compensation if we know that the government has bought five government chairs or chairs that are now in the government palace? Is the land in Babna Polje worth ten or fifteen times less than in Ljubljana and its surroundings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan will raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Madam Minister is absent, yet do you want to ask a question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u155	That's right, Mr. President. Thank you. I would also like the Minister to give an oral answer to this question at her next meeting. In fact, I am asking the question because of the information available on the website of the Employment Office, as well as information that I cannot say, of course, that they are official and that I can speak of them as fully credible information. This year more than 31 000 work permits for foreigners were issued in Slovenia from January to the end of August, during the same period last year 28 000 and 51 thousand work permits last year. Workers, foreigners working with us in Slovenia already reach 6.8% of all employees in Slovenia of Slovenian citizens. Therefore, I believe that one of the more important tasks of our country in relation to these foreigners is to ensure at least equal working conditions, healthy and safe work and to fulfil all the conditions laid down in the general and individual collective agreements. Given that information that is very limited to us Members and to all citizens of Slovenia is, however, understood that these workers work under substantially poor working conditions, as foreseen by the Labour Relations Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act. They live in a person's unworthy housing situation and are paid contrary to the general and/or sectoral collective agreement, as their monthly salary does not even reach the guaranteed, let alone a minimum wage. It is also interesting that in Slovenia the number of foreigners registered as independent entrepreneurs is rapidly increasing and that they are registered at the same address with more than ten or even over 100 independent entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to know whether the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has control over the situation in which foreign workers work in Slovenia and determines working conditions [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] legislation and collective agreements? [[...]] How many infringements of those rules and contracts have been detected in the previous year and what sanctions have been imposed on employers? Is the Interdepartmental Group of Ministries of Labour, Family and Social Affairs working within the Government for the administration, the economy, the environment and the space, the internal affairs task of monitoring developments in the employment and work of foreigners, the functioning of companies and independent entrepreneurs who provide work [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Foreigners in the Slovenian labour market and so on? [[...]] If it does not work, do you intend to do anything in this direction, in particular in connection with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Administration?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The Minister of Economy will be asked a question by Mrs Marjeta Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! My question is for the Minister of Economy. However, it refers to the surpluses of bread, which remain on commercial shelves daily and mostly end up in landfills. In recent years, Slovenian bakeries have faced a difficult situation. The total quantities of unsold bread and other bakery products returned to them by their customers, the shopping centres, the following day. The sales risk is entirely on the shoulders of the producers and traders do not adapt their margins to the reduced risk or behave irresponsiblely when ordering these products. These products return daily from 15 and also to 40 tonnes. We know that free competition is supposed to work on the market, but I ask you: Does the Ministry really not have any leverage to protect weaker participants? This is not about competition between furnaces, but it is about the relationship between supply and demand, where trade has obviously a strong role. It is a complex issue of both crop production and the responsibility of the State to maintain production if it does not satisfy its own food. Furthermore, the question of the prudent use of excess baking products is raised. These may be used for other purposes only in accordance with European directives, which is the result of additional costs to Pekku and, therefore, most of the bread, I stress again, ends up in landfills. I ask you: How will the Ministry protect the interests of consumers in particular to buy bread at a normal price? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Mag. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much. In particular, I would like to point out once again that food prices, which, of course, include bread, are freely designed and state, the Government, Parliament, any institution, have absolutely no leverage and measures to regulate the relationship between baking and bread producers and also bread sellers. Even some bread producers have their own sales spaces, which I think is good. The result of the situation, which I can also partially attach, which is also based on the questionnaire sent by the Competition Protection Office, is that the trading chains have been slightly more consolidated than the supply chains; they are in short, more organised. My first suggestion is that these supply organisations also connect and represent their interests. Of course, they do not link in terms of any cartel agreement, but in terms of protecting their rights and equalising negotiating positions in this regard. If the state had intervened in any way in this free economic initiative and this economic negotiation, it would have violated the Constitution in some way. However, I am convinced that the State must do everything, for the first time, to prevent cartel bargaining or exploiting certain monopoly positions on the market. This means that we know that, for example, the three trading chains represent around 85% of the Slovenian market, that the linkage, the agreement between them distorts competition and thus would also act unlawfully, but this cartel agreement needs to be established and I believe that the competition protection office will do everything in the shortest possible time. Secondly, when you mention the need to provide and ensure that the consumer is also protected primarily in terms of quality and safety, this is also the Office for Consumer Protection and also civil society organisations that warn and are intended to protect consumers primarily in order to inform the consumer that they are aware and aware of their consumer behaviour, meaning that they are buying for money what is also appropriate for quality and safety. The government doesn't have a magic wand here and neither does Parliament to say, but now the price of bread is so great, and at this price you will be selling traders, and it also does not intend to interfere with history and re-regulation of what is now free to form the market. We just want to make it clear with a clear picture of the price structure who actually took advantage of the rise in raw materials prices, in the case of bread, of course, it is flour, and who added something to it and thus cut off a slightly larger portion of the cake in this price without serious justification. And I'm afraid there's a little bit more success in doing that for suppliers and furnaces in this case. Once again, on the basis of the activities of the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Office for the Protection of Consumers and also of civil law institutions, there can be better information and also answers regarding possible cartel negotiations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u161	Mr. Minister, I thank you for these answers. I agree with you most of the time. In fact, when you point out that suppliers should connect to each other and negotiate better starting points, including with regard to return or responsible ordering. Second. I think that the country, the Government, should also make public the high margins, especially if there is no great risk that it can restore everything in the evening, as long as it remains, it does not need to have a 60% margin to earn more than a kiln and a farmer who produces grain and makes bread. And second. It might also be helpful to think that this bread, one day old, would be sold the next day, at a lower price, of course, because we know that a certain layer of the population goes to bakery and buys this old bread at a very low price and comes to them. The other is a question of quality. Are our bakeries really baking such bad bread that they don't last more than a day?Oh, my God! In this direction, I would like to ask that the government think as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much for those suggestions. I think they're good, and they're gonna be heard by real ears. I fully agree with you that one day old bread is not bad bread, but I wonder why consumers are not actually using it, why we are actually encouraging such behaviour of baking and merchants. Many times, we need to look at ourselves in the mirror, or we are not the only ones who are the generators of these phenomena. Because no merchant will sell anything unless the consumer buys it. And I agree with you that it could also be the approach of traders and bakers, especially traders, because they return old bread to, say, lower the price, but once again, this is a business relationship between furnaces and merchants. And in this business relationship, some associations are clearly a stronger and stronger negotiator than others. I have a very difficult influence. The legitimate right of every trader is to cut off his highest margin and to sell his most. This is perfectly legitimate, as is the legitimate interest of each economic operator to sell its product or service at the highest possible price with the most added value, where these are unregulated articles and these are in fact a large majority in the structure. When they are monopolies, for example, this is a certain type of energy, including municipal electricity and so on, then the country reaches a regulated price and we have an adopted regulated price plan. During the current period of 2007, the planned regulated prices did not raise higher than envisaged and are therefore within the limits as foreseen and as foreseen by the basic inflation. At these freely designed prices it is, in fact, to understand that this is a relationship between supplier, trader and consumer. And here is where we need to find the answer to these questions. The State, with its regulatory authorities, must only pay attention and act if there is a distortion of competition if there is an abuse of the monopoly of certain groups that are blackmailing and distorting the market due to certain arrangements.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Janez Drobnic will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u165	Well, hello, Mr. Secretary-General! The question concerns state roads, maintenance of state roads, or construction. In Slovenia you have a number of sections of state roads which are semi-made, so they are not asphalted and are still waiting for a layer of asphalt to cover them. Some sections have been in this state for over a year, even two years. You know it doesn't have to be the kind of neuro that water and other meteoric effects take away material. And so the work that has already been done is, in fact, in vain. It is necessary to take action again. It's kind of a department. I'm specifically interested in the Draga-Battery section. It is located in a border area and is very important for citizens, for citizens of the Osilnica and also for the Draga to be able to connect with the centre of the country, so that key things are accessible to them. This road is already, I think, not just a year, but over a year, almost three, without overcoating, is already in bad shape. Why don't you decide to finish the roads immediately, and why are you waiting? And another question related to this. When will the road Draga-Possilna be covered, or when will you prepare it first so that you can asphalt it? By the time you did, it was a long way back and the material was somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question. The Slovenian Directorate for Roads manages almost 6,000 long state road network. Of this, it is a good 370 km of vehicles with a macadamian upper structure. The recovery of these sections shall be carried out in accordance with the financial resources provided for in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, using a multi-criteria analysis to determine the order of implementation of the proposed measures. However, the analysis takes into account the following conditions: the socio-economic eligibility of the investment, the importance of the road in the space and the contribution of the project to the coherent regional development of the area. In addition to asphalting itself, other measures are being implemented on macadamian vehicles, which are more suitable in terms of expected traffic loads, base loads and climate and hydrological conditions. However, on all sections prepared for asphalting, which means that the lower structure is carried out, asphalting is also carried out. Initially with a carrier layer of concreteed scrap, and then with a wearable layer of asphalt. In the case of the State road Dragari-Osilnica or section Dragarje-Zgornji Čačič, the length of which is 6533 metres. This is a section where only the construction road is currently built. This is an investment that is difficult and extensive both financially and from an implementing point of view. The road takes place in an area where there was no road connection at all, on an extremely steep mountain slope, which is also geologically, hydrologically and naturally very difficult. As I have already mentioned, the implementation works on this route represent only the establishment of a construction path that will only be built into the final state, then asphalting will be possible. The budget for this year and the following year shall provide financial resources to extend the construction road to the planned or final width and finally [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] regional roads, so that the implementation contract for these works is in the signing phase. [[...]] Only after the completion of these works, with which the construction road will be built into the final form of the regional road will the upper asphalting structure be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u169	That's the answer I'm not most pleased with. It's not my pleasure. It is a question and a problem for the people of this place. For this has been building for a very, very long time, and I think that these necessary funds can also be found. I propose a very simple solution within the meaning of these provincial laws. If we give up these lands, we'll only give up the extra costs and all the election deals. From these means, we can build this road very quickly and also many others. And all the following years, when we're struggling with provincial politics, it's like citizens don't have enough, both state and local. In short, these are resources that we can provide, or I agree with you in technical terms. The only time I agree with you is time. But if it's money, it can be built within seven, eight months, for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you very much for this additional question. Of course, it would be terribly difficult for me to comment on investing in the province. However, as I said, the financial resources in the budget for this and next year are provided so that the matter goes on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers. My question is short. On 31 July this year, I submitted a written initiative to supplement or amend the Rules of Procedure and Standards for the Implementation of the Primary School Programme. The implementation of this Regulation brings unfriendly and longer-term non-life solutions to children in everyday practice. I explained that in my explanation. Today, after almost two months of response from the Ministry of Education and Sport, I still haven't received one. I ask: When will I receive the answer, and what will be the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u174	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, thank you for the question raised. It is true that we have received from you a written initiative, not as a matter of question, but as a question which was formally not sent from the National Assembly. We responded orally to this initiative, we were also in touch, you were with me when I was your guest here, as chairman of the Commission, where after the meeting I responded to your initiative, and the Secretary of State also discussed your initiative with you at the Ministry of Education and Sport. The fact is that in Slovenia there are about 346, not around - exactly 346 branch schools, that we have very favourable standards for carrying out the educational process in these schools, that the regulation, as it is, does not feel any need at this moment to change. We have very small schools, a good part of the school, and this more than one fifth has one department or two, which means that we are a very rare country in the world that keeps schools even with such a small number of children. Some 1,100 schools were shut down in Portugal years ago, but some had 10 children. We don't think about any interruptions. We even have a school in Osilnica with only three children. A few border schools with 5 or more, in short, we have regulations that we can't practically lower. Your proposal to further improve standards to practically have in branch schools where the minimum number of children, each generation of one class, would mean that by class there would be only one child, which is also educationally and socially unacceptable, because children must be together in order to acquire one of the important skills, competences, that is social skills. If they are not in society, if they do not exchange, they do not interact with others, we will virtually deprive them of their fundamental right and the opportunity to gain one of the virtues or skills necessary in the process of socialisation. We don't accept this proposal. We'll send you a written answer today or you've already received it. I didn't understand that you wanted a written answer after oral clarification, but we have no problem with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u177	I still need to comment on what the minister said because of the public. In view of the fact that the Ministry phoned that it had not received my initiative by the National Assembly, I sent it back on 21 August with a return, says one month ago, at least twice this initiative arrived. The initiative, however, is related to the very difficult compliance with the regulation which was corrected this year, and until last year there were possible specifics depending on the situation. My proposal went in this direction so that the combined departments would not be established where the demographic picture over the next five years shows such improvement in order to allow standards to maintain separate departments to prevent the practical self-sustainment of the branch school because by setting up the combined department, parents are starting to think about whether they would leave children in poor quality or do everything to ensure that children are then provided with about the same standard as children in cities. And I don't think that's the right answer. However, I would ask that the answer should be quantified in the light of the current situation if my proposal were to take account of what this means financially and human resources. Given the fact that it is a few hundred schools and for, I think, given the entire teaching staff for a very small cost, I think it would be right to have a very quantitative answer. However, I think it is necessary to start saving where the concentration of schools is higher and schools are half empty, not in the countryside, and to do everything in the countryside to keep branch schools as long as possible. That's why your answer was not in line with what I suggested. I did not propose, as you did, to remain one student at a time, but in the event that the demographic picture points to an improvement, in this case the rule should not be applied and it should not start by shutting down the branch school with the combined departments, but rather by bridging some two years, and also in the reality of such a situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u179	Well, we can use the words of the departments and schools and so on, but we are talking about specific situations where there is an extremely small number of children and where we are trying to keep such a school. That is why we already have specifics and also the Slovenian school system is based on specifications, as you know, because we have such a way of financing, and we also maintain this regularly and in such schools. But to go even further in this direction, just to satisfy your concerns and suggestions, that would actually mean that. Right now, it's important that we maintain these schools with the same standards. We cannot increase the quality right now and we don't need to. It is important that we maintain schools, you are right, in rural areas, in hilly areas, in border areas, and practice confirms us here. We have a school with three kids, like in Osilnica, and somewhere else, even in the west of the country. It is simply not necessary to change standards and regulations in this direction, since we are already making up for what is necessary with specifics when a small school falls out of these regulations. This letter, if you want exact calculations, what would that mean, how many new departments, although they are not sections, however. If you suggest that a school with three, four, five children would not have combined sections, that means that children in the 1st grade would be special, children in the 2nd grade separately, children in the 3rd grade separately, in the 4th class, that means virtually complete individualization or personalization, which is not necessarily right. In short, you'll get the exact answer. I'll also try to pull numbers and table analysis if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u181	I apologize, but such an answer is not correct because it is not the answer to my question. I expect in writing what I said, specifically, what my proposal for the current situation means. It can be calculated very quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The minister's gone. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Notwithstanding the absence of Minister Dragutin Mate, I will ask you a question and ask you to answer the next meeting of the National Assembly. The All-Slovenian Society, which advocates the development of caravanling in Slovenia, currently finds no suitable Slovenian word, and freedom of movement as a way of spending free time, has given an initiative to Slovenian mayors to arrange supply stations or parking spaces for motorhomes. As far as I know, this area at the state level is neither regulated nor regulated, but only in practice. There are only some exceptions where local communities have come to realize that this is one of the opportunities for the development of tourism. The fact is that this type of tourism currently shows the biggest growth trend in Europe. It is not about arranging camps in the classical sense of that word, but, as it were, about so-called care stations. Camps go on vacation and usually stay there for a long time. But if they travel, they stop for a short period of time where it's interesting and where they have a supply option. If this is not the case, they find themselves in different ways, sometimes ecologically and securityly controversial and moving on. Of course, it is not the fault of travellers with motorhomes, but those who do not afford them the normal care that tourists would naturally pay. The care center or station is said in society would be good to have in every major Slovenian city or congregation. I ask the Minister of the Interior: How would we regulate this area and provide minimum standards for the regulation of so-called home care centres, is it necessary to provide care and also to stay at home? This is regulated at national level in many European countries. Let me list some of them: Austria, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Italy, Germany, Norway and so on. So there should be a rule or a submarital act. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which would regulate this at national level and, of course, the specific implementation would be in the hands of the individual local community. [[...]] I ask the Minister to answer me at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues who remain, Vice President, Minister! I have a short question for you, and I would like to ask you: What are the reasons why companies engaged in freshwater aquaculture do not acquire water rights or concessions? As an example, I can mention four of Slovenia's largest aquaculture fish Maribor, Berlek d.o.o., Franc Krumpak s.p. and Marko Horvat s.p. And there's probably someone else, just the biggest one I've ever counted. These are legal persons who are in need of water in a way that requires a water permit or concession to be obtained by the substantive law, and do not have a water permit or water management consent. As a result of this, there is also the fact that these legal persons, or their legal predecessors, have been engaged in this activity since the 1960s in the run-up to various calls for development funds, as well as others and in the eyes of others. Well, it's been a long time. Indeed, it would be a time of extremes, much more so because some have already come to that extreme possibility, even the claims that these matters will be settled as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you very much. What's common is that I'm usually the last of the ministers to answer questions. And it is an honour for me to see that this is clearly a resort that is, as a rule, challenging Members for two questions that have been sent. I have allowed myself this comment, which is not in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure. The following is the reply of the Member of Parliament, Dr Slavinac. First, something about the regulation itself and then about the conditions necessary for companies to obtain concessions. The Regulation itself on the concession for the cultivation of freshwater organisms in the ponds carried out by the companies mentioned by the Member State. Fish Maribor d.o.o., Berlek d.o.o., Franc Krumpak s.p. And Marko Horvat s.p. is getting ready. According to our plan, today I checked again, we will submit it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for admission in October. For all the ponds of these companies that will acquire the right of concessional character for their water right to grow freshwater ponds, this is also a relatively difficult procedure because it is a matter of raising fish in lakes with a very rich biodiversity. For such ponds, the Ministry responsible for the environment must prepare the conditions for cultivation in a way that keeps the cultivation of freshwater organisms economically profitable, while at the same time not causing a significant reduction in biodiversity in both the water and the coastal areas of these ponds. What are the conditions for such companies to obtain a concession for freshwater aquaculture? According to the Water Act, it is necessary, as we said, to obtain a concession for cypernide or Salmonella fish species. The conditions for obtaining a concession for the cultivation of freshwater fish in the case of the extraction of water from surface water for the purpose of rearing fish in aquaculture pools are more simple than those provided that the rearing of fish is carried out directly in the aquatic body of surface water, such as artificial lakes, water-maintainers or on surface waters directly. This is, for example, commercial fishing. In the case of fish rearing in aquaculture pools, the condition for obtaining concessions is that the water flow in the watercourse remains higher than the ecologically acceptable flow. However, in the outflow of such a aquaculture pool, limit values for the discharge of waste water into surface waters must not be exceeded. However, when it comes to raising fish directly on surface waters in maintenance, artificial lakes or directly watercourses, it is necessary, as we say, to maintain the ecological status of the water. Fishing in such surface water shall not cause poor ecological conditions of water. For example, this condition does not meet intensive aquaculture, so in such ponds the quantities of fish raised are about 30% to 50% of the quantities achieved in aquaculture pools. An additional requirement for the cultivation of fish in artificial or natural lakes arises, if the aquatic environment is a pond, that is the aquatic body of the pond or its coastal land, the habitat of a rare species of animal which is also protected by nature 2000. We have cases like this. In this case, the concessionaire must also ensure, in addition to good ecological conditions, the protection of the habitat of rare species of animals. This makes the procedure even more complicated. Nevertheless, I stress that the Regulation on concessions for the cultivation of freshwater organisms in the ponds of these four companies will be forwarded to the government procedure next month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Maybe just one more thought and then a specific question. One would expect it to be difficult or at least more difficult to raise fish than to obtain documentation for an activity that has been under way for decades. That is why I appeal to you and your colleagues to make sure that the relevant legislation is indeed foreseen within the time limit. I would ask you: When, then, can these companies expect to obtain a concession? Will it be this year, or will it drag on again for a very long time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u190	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you very much. First part of the question. Here comes this new one, I would say a European concept that is not present only in this case. Despite the fact that some companies have been involved in the cultivation of freshwater organisms for decades, the European concept is that new, stricter criteria, if I mention some of the criteria enshrined in the Water Act or if I mention a very demanding regime called Natura 2000, must be fully respected, and indeed, we must find this together, causing the complexity of the process itself. This is said to mean that the acquired right or experience from the past is not a guarantee that automaticism is here, but that these new European solutions must be taken into account. After the experience we have, when the regulation is adopted and in fact, I must tell you that for at least one economic society, the representative of one of those mentioned has been, for various reasons, some are also in court, in contact with our services several times in the last two years, even I have met him twice only within my powers to do everything to at least this part of this story, so that the concession would be awarded, so I have done everything to make this happen relatively quickly and as soon as possible after the adoption of the regulation. That's all I can tell you. However, the authorities responsible for this will also carry out a very up-to-date part of the task. I hope this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! We're closing today's questions, and I hope we can make it a success. I ask you to explain the actions of the Ministry or your agencies in deciding on the issue of consent or disagreements regarding new, more or less regional landfills, biological waste treatment plants and incineration plants. In particular, I ask for an answer in the ministry's policy on a meaningful solution to the problem in the meantime to the implementation of regionally-dimensified solutions, which can only rightly run for European funding. It is a matter of extending existing intermodal deposits or projects that can provide a meaningful solution for the time to come to the realization of these European regional ones. What is the point of regional incineration plants instead of one or two in Slovenia? How is the sense of the different technologies of MBO, such as Celje, in Ljubljana? It is a technological specialisation and an environmental and economic level of adequacy within a country such as that. There are non-economic solutions and the exploitation of community pressures and the formation of monopolistic prices mainly at the cost of municipal waste disposal. What about the introduction of a regulated limited deposit price, as well as processing and incineration? One municipality, instead of driving to Jesenice, drives across Lenart to Austria because the price via Lenart to Austria is lower than the price if taken near their municipality to Jesenice. Now I'm going to read that part of the question that I shouldn't have had because of local coloring, but I see that all things are actually locally coloured, but maybe the whole question is too general to know what we're talking about on specific occasions. I ask: Why have projects to expand existing or new interstate deposits that are project and financially ready to be realised and for which substantial financial resources have already been earmarked not necessarily obtained the ILO's consent to obtain a building permit? The case of the Dob dump, where the municipality of Domžale obtained environmental approval for its extension, but not environmental authorisation. How is that even possible? At the same time, the Ministry was not determined enough to help the municipality gain agreement on new projects, such as the Cero project, which has been going on for five years and may now live with the new mayor in the municipality of Kranj. This is where my time is running out. Actually, that's all I'm asking you. Years ago, I proposed an amendment to the Law on Public Economic Services, with which the powers of [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] As regards deposits and factories, the incinerators were transferred to the country but were not accepted. [[...]] [[...]] Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Magnificent Messenger. He asked me so many questions that it would take about 25 minutes to answer. I'll try to answer within the time limit set for me. First of all, with regard to the regional centres in force. They are in operation or are in the process of building CERO Ljubljana, CERO Dolenjska, CERO Pucenci, Pomurje, CERO Posavije, CERO Koroška, CERO Celje - Savinja region and Gajske Ptuj, Lower Podravje. All of these are co-financed by cohesion funds. In accordance with the preparation of the investment documentation, the costs of operation of the centres have also been calculated for these projects and in no case exceed the costs as defined in the operational programme. However, it is true, as you mention, that the price of waste management in Slovenia will have to be gradually simplified after the establishment of all centres. In any event, the cost of waste disposal will be higher than it is currently in those environments where landfills are not large enough or are not regulated in accordance with the rules. You ask why some, as you say, do not get the necessary ILO consent to obtain a building permit. For all those projects that were planned in accordance with the operational programme containing all the necessary documentation, ARSO has issued an appropriate permit. It is true, however, that managers have proposed an extension of these landfills for some landfills. This is not in accordance with the rules of the European Union which will have to comply with all landfills after July 2009. The extended existing landfill is not sufficient to meet the requirements of the European Union or the waste disposal rules. It is possible, however, that there is no extension to the existing landfill. The operational programme has identified existing landfills which, due to their characteristics, can only operate until July 2009 and those which, on the basis of a professional assessment, have been found to comply with the requirements of the European Union of waste disposal regulations and can, on the basis of minor additions and greater investments outside the body of the landfill, meet the conditions for the operation of landfills even after July 2009. It is true, and I must say this, that we are preparing an amendment to the operational programme, in which we will also draw up, on the basis of some new knowledge and data on existing landfills, an updated list of landfills that will be operational after 2009. The data on the basis of which this new list of landfills will be produced after July 2009 are not only environmental but also economic, as they will also set an economically sound level of disposal. However, it is considered that disposal is economically justified in meeting all the requirements of the European Union's waste disposal rules, provided that at such landfill waste is disposed of from an area of at least 50 000 inhabitants. You also raised a price-related question. If I'm still going to the price. Current waste disposal prices vary from €20 to €90 per tonne of waste. They do not reflect the actual cost of operating existing landfills. Some prices do not cover the basic costs of the regular operation of landfills, while others exceed even more than €90 per tonne. We want to solve this situation in such a way that the price in newly built landfills and waste management centres will be uniformly uniform to the greatest extent possible, as these are designed in a related way, both in size and according to technological parameters. In addition, these centres are to a large extent co-financed by European funds, and therefore we should not expect a substantial increase in costs as defined in the operational programme. However, the fact is that a lower price can only be achieved if we strictly respect the economic legality of the construction of such centres, which tend to become economically viable, and this is a known assessment, for the association of at least 200,000 people. The transitional period will be extended until mid-2009. Those landfills that meet the requirements of existing environmental permits at a given time will be operational until mid-2009. If I finish. When reviewing the capacity of existing landfills, Slovenia has a relatively sufficient deposit space, and logistically they are unevenly distributed across Slovenia, including across regions, so that we will not take into account in the amendment of the operational programme the location that would be spatially and environmentally acceptable and where, this is very important, the consensus reached by people living at such landfills or locations and the local communities where such a landfill will operate or continue to operate, the operation of existing landfills that will obtain one key permit for this, i.e. IPPC operating permit after 2008. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u196	Mag. The damage, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The two of you that you mentioned seemed essential to me. In view of the fact that it is not intended to drive waste from the region to the region, this is not economical and is not in line with what is supposed to be a regional landfill. And secondly, I am concerned about this conclusion that a consensus is required for everyone living in an environment of landfills. This, Mr. Secretary, will never be achieved. Local communities, if they reach consensus at the level of the municipal council by carrying out all the procedures necessary to obtain the building permit, I think that is sufficient. However, I doubt if this can be achieved by the full consensus of all the inhabitants around here. I also ask that, in this interim period, when this regulation, which has been known for many years, some regions have not yet taken care to regulate these matters, so that, at least during this interim period, extensions or new landfills at old locations are allowed if you want to bridge this period until the arrangements for new regional landfills. It is a complete nonsense to drive garbage from the domed area to Celje, instead of taking this vehicle to Ljubljana or to a new regional dump, the Goran region dump. The most appropriate thing in this case is to drive the trash as close as possible. Price regulation, since in any case this is a monopoly service and even financed up to 70% of European funds, is absolutely necessary and would have been necessary long ago because there is an unjustified profit [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And the nonsense that follows. [[...]] Drive the garbage instead of the Jesenice over Lenart to Austria, say. Those two, I think it's absolutely necessary to clean it up. During the interim period, if the investment is made up to it [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Thank you for the supplementary question. I agree with you, Mr Member, that some regions have fallen asleep, especially some municipalities and their municipalities. They thought it was going to work out. It won't work. It is necessary to comply fully with the applicable conditions and criteria as others do. There is no term "expansion of the landfill". This is not a procedure because it is contrary to EU rules. Next. It's polite. In the law in force, the congregations are fully competent in this area. In front of you, the standing minister just went to pick up a skeleton in a crane, and he didn't have to. If at seven or eight locations of the congregation, the other four agreed to do so. What's my role? However, my role is to try to find a solution for this area, but if I mention Gorenjska or maybe Notranj-Krajska or Primorsko, I will get the necessary European cohesion money to build a modern new centre and at the same time repair existing sites. Goreńska also has a problem that some existing locations need not small financial inputs to be properly repaired. And now for your assessment, which I don't agree with. As Minister of Environment and Space, I do not see any way to build a regional waste management centre in the face of opposition from the population living near such a landfill. Name one of the Slovenian regions that built the location like this. Where this happened, the location was lost. That's why it's necessary from the start, a 10-year project is this, not someone wakes up after the elections and strikes, and talks, but now I'm going to build a regional landfill here, and I'm going to extend the current one for two more years. But the previous commune had previously slept and slept or perhaps had little regard for this element of communication with people. "Local Partnership" is an English word that speaks about this, I would say, credible communication with people [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? In this case, before this effect, however, everyone has the right to live in a healthy environment under the current procedures, although as a minister I am confident that these locations will be repeated, becoming a space of modern technologies, but [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The paradox is that some are thinking of building a new landfill on some 30-year-old dump. [[...]] We know what the technological problem is. And here's the problem with smell, let's face it, is the problem. If this has not been invested in for decades, then it is necessary to recognize people and find a solution to the fact that there are no more deposits in the vicinity of such sites. And I will do everything as a minister to see Gorenska in this case, perhaps in the form of an innovation programme, a solution for the Gorenjians in Gorenjska to resolve this issue in a qualitative manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-24-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I thank the ministers for their answers. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Monday, 1 October 2007, at 10 a.m., when the four questions raised by members of the opposition and the MP of the ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. I am adjourning the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
