ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a candidate for a minister without a license, responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed to the National Assembly on 9 February 2007 that Dr Žigo Turka be appointed Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposal before you today is due to the fact that the Slovenian Government has adopted the Slovenian Development Strategy and, at the same time, when this strategy was adopted, which Slovenia did not have until then, there is also a need for coordination of development. It has now been some time since the adoption of this strategy, and the strategy has received its follow-up in the implementing documents. A key implementing document is the Resolution on National Development Projects and with the adoption of this resolution there was a need for a slightly stronger coordinating role for the Government Development Service, so I decided to propose a Minister without a charter to this place. The proposal you have received relates to the appointment of Dr. Žiga Turka as Minister without a Charter, who will lead the Government of Development and thus coordinate the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy, with particular emphasis on coordinating the implementation of concrete, difficult, important substantive projects contained in the Resolution on National Development Projects. Dr. Žiga Turk is in a scientific research and, you could say, innovation spheres in Slovenia known name. He is a university graduate engineering engineer, a master of computer science and a doctor of technical science. Despite his young years, he already has a very successful scientific career, as well as achievements in the field of popularisation of information technologies in particular. He is one of the well-known pioneers of the introduction of the world's web in Slovenia, the founder of the first microcomputer magazine, including the author of some services in this field that have grown into a national or Slovenian framework. He is also a reviewer of Austria and Finland’s national research projects. It has been involved in European research programmes for 13 years, since 1994. He also led or coordinated two important European research projects. He has personally participated in the preparation of the National Research and Development Programme for the period 2006-2010, as well as in the Strategy for targeted research projects. He is a member of the Scientific Council of the Agency for Development and Research and has so far been Vice-President of the Strategic Council for Culture, Education and Science. He was also a member of the Committee on Reforms, and within this he was also a member of the Tax Reform Group of the Committee on Reforms. The candidate, I think, has presented himself very well on the parent's working body. Above all, he presented himself through his work and achievements so far. These achievements indicate that Dr Turk devoted his career, a professional career to the application of knowledge-based societies and innovative approaches using modern and information and communication technologies. I think that the first candidate for a minister, who has also published his presentation for the general public on his website, has shown that he also wants to address citizens and citizens directly. In his presentation, he proved that he believed that in Slovenia, not reforms, nor faster development or a better life for all could not be achieved or worked only from above down, but that these efforts must be based on the initiatives of entrepreneurs and citizens, or should be widely accepted. The knowledge flow between the economy and the research and higher education sphere at local Slovenian level and the European Research Research Area for Dr Turk, as he said in his presentation, is not a declaration phrase, but a long-standing working practice, which he also proved with his results. His work and orientations so far point to a strong proactive and pro-European orientation, and Slovenia must, at a time when it is gradually moving from the host countries of the cohesion aid recipients to a group that will in time also be helping to focus more attention on the participation of stakeholders in the research development sphere, the European Community programmes and the practical experience of Dr Turk will be important in this regard. The political coordination of the Lisbon tasks and support for the presidency on the upgrade of the Lisbon Strategy also require at the point of management of the Government of Human Development, which also includes the practice of breakthroughs in knowledge-based economy. In his presentation, the candidate formulated a password that reads: "Creative entrepreneurship and confidence. Creative because creativity at all levels leads to new ideas. Business, because the idea needs to be poured into a marketable successful product or service. Self-confidence, because it is time to capture the energy released in the last 15 years of independence, and now it is time for great nation-building stories to be followed by great developmental steps and projects that will give entrepreneurs and citizens additional courage." Of course, we need to understand this slogan as an encouragement and guidance addressed to all citizens and citizens, as well as to employees in the public sector. As I said at the outset, with your support, Dr Turk will take over a service which is also responsible for coordinating the implementation of the national development projects adopted by the Government last October with the adoption of the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. These projects are subject to the principle of entrepreneurship; each section of the chain prepares projects. Both at the level of the final design of projects and at the stage when it is necessary to implement the Law on Public-Private Partnership consistently and to attract the involvement of domestic and foreign investors. The appointment of a Minister without a licence, headed by the Government Development Service, is also a new impetus that is needed after the adoption of this resolution, just as a new impetus was needed two years ago in the European Union with the renewed Lisbon Strategy. And if, on this basis, I base this proposal on his quote, which he said at the presentation, when he said, "Development is more than reform," I understand in this sense that we have enough development programmes, and the reform documents are practically enough on the table, but there are still some implementing acts missing, but this is fundamentally, conceptually, programmaticly, planning work at that time. So this means that time for work and development has required a substantial better and organic intertwining of science - technological development - entrepreneurship, which has only provided for sustained economic growth and thus for the sustainable implementation of social reforms. The social reform cycle sees the candidate as a priority, reform of the social transfer system, improving the functioning of the active employment policy and increasing the role and scope of lifelong learning. Everything in the direction of more rewarding work and good work results and not subsidising wrongdoing. The Minister's candidate sees challenges and opportunities in ensuring the sustainable development of Slovenia, and is aware that further efforts will be needed to implement the already outlined objectives of the fifth development priority of the Slovenian Development Strategy, which is the integration of measures to achieve sustainable development. As the candidate said in his presentation, it is important to be aware that development is not something that is ours or yours, is not something that is from the opposition and in this respect I am further asking the National Assembly to support its candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Home Economic Committee and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. It follows from the opinion of the Committee that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate. You have received the opinion of the committee. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr. William Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Nice greetings to all, including the Prime Minister and the ministers involved in this consideration. We have just heard an additional presentation and argument that the candidate proposed by the Prime Minister is appropriate for the place to which he is proposed. A candidate for the Minister without a licence for the Head of the Development Service, who should in particular monitor and coordinate the implementation of documents already adopted and also coordinate any changes that may be necessary, has presented himself to the Committee on the Economy, which is the responsible body for this area. The presentation of Dr. Mark Turk, the Unis. Prof. was, we can say, integrated, systematic, transparent, clear, also challenging for some cities, which has also led to appropriate responses in questions and answers. And for some, this must also be said, it was inadequate to be able to do so because it was not sufficiently specific in terms of quantification of the objectives and because it was not concrete in terms of deadlines. This was later demonstrated by the vote. In any event, the Minister's candidate showed that he was professional in this area, showed that his horizon was relatively wide, not only on the basis of the knowledge he had gained from his studies, but also that he knew the world, home and literature, and showed a great deal of optimism, and, as he himself said, a willingness to coordinate cooperation and to coordinate with social and other partners. It is clearly aware of, as it says, social and environmental constraints and development or economic growth are not intended for themselves, according to his own words. He presented his vision by placing it within the analysis of the existing situation or by confronting the past and by trying to put it also in sync with the world situation and by pointing to direction in the future. Its conclusion is that there is no need for dramatic, radical changes in the area of reforming our society, in different segments, but that what has been started must be carried out consistently. At what pace and at what radicality he finally committed himself to presenting himself in a report that he will prepare for the National Assembly and in which he will also have deadlines and quantification, which he will prepare once he has been elected and confronted with other ministers, for it is also his function to coordinate and accelerate development. To realize this vision, as it stands for itself, it calls for the creativity, entrepreneurship, self-confidence, and putting it in the right environment today. It estimates, however, that in the past there has been too little of this and that the time for faster, accelerated development of these values and properties is both individuals and our society as a whole. Bets on excellence, betting on development elites, betting on big projects as generators of other development, and says that we simply need to follow the direction we are going and which is drawn both by the Lisbon Strategy and by our development strategy, by the framework of reforms and by the resolution. A number of questions were raised in various fields after he presented himself, and he answered these questions correctly. The Committee assesses - this was also its conclusion - that the presentation of Prof. Žiga Turka was appropriate to be a suitable candidate for a minister without a licence and was therefore adopted with majority support. Those who had concerns, however, had them in particular in the sense that there were insufficient quantifications and deadlines and that the coalition itself should propose its minister and take responsibility for him. Thus, he received the majority support of the competent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! Allow me to put forward, according to my assessment, an inappropriate presentation by Mr Janez Janša for the said point or candidate. During his entire presentation, he was exposed to what the candidate said at his presentation. Personally, I believe that many of you, too, have expected more from the President of the Government, not only to take over the event on a committee that we could have witnessed to all Members and anyone who has only five minutes of time can look at the tape record of the event on that committee. I personally expected him to tell us more about the candidate, but unfortunately that didn't happen. The second thing I would like to point out is that in the National Party we estimate that the Government has actually deviated from its envisaged aggressive tax policy, which has proved inappropriate within our country. We regret, of course, that so much energy has been lost, so much public controversy for the so-called single tax rate. On the other hand, on the other hand, or on the third page, we would like to point out the only or most frequently exposed observation to the proposed candidate. It was a matter of his politics. Does he have sufficient political experience to perform that function? When we listened in particular to the negative direction of the lack of so-called political experience, we were convinced in the National Party that it was, of course, a harmful hint for that minister. We need to be aware and, last but not least, the candidate has pointed out several times that this kind of non-politicality could be his great plus. The fact is that he has pointed out several times that he sees his task mainly in coordination, in the organisation of work mainly between individual ministries dealing with social matters or better said in macro-economic matters. From this title, we are pleased with the Member and Members of the Slovenian National Party that there is already an expert as a politician in this place, in other words, because we explain ourselves this way, means that he will not attempt to politically categorise the individual projects that he will deal with and, therefore, do not accept Mr Pahor's argument, which he has pointed out several times as President of the Parliamentary Political Party, that this candidate lacks political experience. In short, at the National Party, we are happy that he does not lack professional experience, and so at the moment on which we are going to vote, we feel that what is most important is what. What led us to our decision, at least us Members of the Slovenian National Party? The words spoken by the candidate but, of course, he uttered words today or days ago in the National Assembly, which could only lead us to his work. From this title, of course, I point out the hope, you can also say the fervent hope that he will stick to the words he has highlighted in his presentations. His work so far within the framework of the state administration, the executive branch of government, or not least within the legislative branch of government, cannot be assessed and from this title, and I would like to say that this is a message that we are sending within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, that we wish, of course, to preserve the idea or the courage to implement this idea even when it will be in the direct mercy or disfavor of the President of the Government. From this title, allow me to point out some of those points for which we would really like to keep the prime points of the said Minister in the future. First time. Yes, the tasks of the Government's development service are mainly coordination, coordination, which has not been in this area so far, among the economic challenges on the one hand, between the challenges of tax policy and, last but not least, the challenges of monetary policy. There has been no such article within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so far. We had only some kind of political factor that tried to integrate its own ego into individual projects, but that was bad, we are in fact all those who are present and all those who have accompanied the media can see. To the extent that this candidate manages to connect, coordinate and not least plan and implement individual projects that require more than one ministry, and we understand that the task of this minister is, then we can say that, I must say, we want, but that we do not oppose such a candidate with such a policy or even desirable. I would like to point out below his attitude towards those so-called employee representatives, i.e. his attitude towards trade unions as negotiating partners. According to our assessment and the magnetogram, he sees no reason why it is rare within the current Slovenian Government not to establish and upgrade dialogue with the social partners. We all know how the individual ministers communicated or better said closed themselves, did not communicate with the social partners, that they pushed them away, that you were something unnecessary within our society, I even tracked them somewhere, but deliberately I will not expose the authorship of this thought, because I only read it, I have not heard that the social partners are parasites, that they are parasites that are charged at the expense of the state treasury. If there were more such thoughts within the Slovenian government, it would be catastrophic. But, at least as part of his performances or as a candidate for a minister, I apologize, he highlighted the fact that today and here he has always been, and will always be, that we are all on the same boat together and that if the Government closes itself, it follows exclusively its political or party policy and we estimate that it is okay, and therefore we say that it should be a front line policy, unlike the United List of Social Democrats, in view of my apologies, I have given the old name. I would like to point out his claim below, which is personal to me, and I will take advantage of the presentation of the parliamentary group, which is also my personal position, his assurance that he will not lead the government's reform service, as his colleagues have before him, but will lead the government's development service. So that we made that step or move away from those negative reforms that have been to us in the small, thank God, the work being forced into the monetary-fiscal policy framework, and in the second part, of course, the government representatives, today, it turned out to be not just us, even all those who would have been affected by the reforms, just scared us. And finally, his challenges, what he sees or how he sees his work. We will not oppose the proposed candidate in the National Party referred to in this Title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much again, Mr. President! Let me start by saying that the DeSUS Group of Members will support Dr. Žigo Turk as regards the suitability for managing the resource to which it is intended. In doing so, we can conclude that the ambitions of our country of Slovenia are therefore very high. It is about catching up and reaching the very top, as far as development in the world is concerned, that is how it is guaranteed in a number of documents. It is that we strive for an integrated understanding of development, for prosperity for all. It is a matter of at least doing almost everything possible at the declaration level in order to preserve nature so as to ensure sustainable development for those who are not yet with us on the ground today. It is also about ensuring greater social justice and solidarity, and it is about trying to build, as far as possible, an optimal country of freedoms and justice, security and political, spiritual and cultural excellence. Of course, there is a threshold here that we must never forget. This is the threshold for the participation of everyone on these goods, at these values, which must be guaranteed to everyone. The Service for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia has the purpose, task, role to promote and coordinate activities on this path towards excellence or to the several summit mentioned. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the role of this service is appropriate, that the chances of achieving our goals in the long term are appropriate, and that we need to know how to regulate the pace so that all citizens and citizens of the acquisitions we are talking about will receive within these reform measures to be carried out. We believe that it is possible to accelerate development, so that a faster rate of development can be achieved, but that continuous work is needed. Even these jobs, we may not have had the best of luck, at least not so far, so it was pointed out that if I paraphrased Oscar Wilde, it would not happen that people would begin to understand this job as something so ugly that management should be replaced every six months. We hope that there will now be a more stable and sustainable management of the job, because without the good and wise management of this service, of course it is not to count on the development and growth of prosperity for all, faster. Therefore, the persistence and patience and reliability of this service will be expected, at least from us. We are pleased that, if we conditionally say so, reformist Jacobinism is behind us, that things are calming down, that what has been implemented is something that enables faster development and that does not cause excessive and unsustainable social differences, which does not mean, of course, that we should not be concerned about the situation some have already found and what would happen to a large proportion of our population if there were not an adequate social support environment. Sustainable development, very often mentioned, we hope, will not only be understood as a declaration that needs to be kept in mind but as something that needs to be implemented in reality. We also agree within the DeSUS Group that it is necessary to respect and build on excellence, but we are not for elitism in this pejorative sense, therefore, for such eliteism, which would be heard only for excellence and not for average, because most citizens are only found where we usually say that the standard of living is average. We assess in the DeSUS Group that Professor Žiga Turk also made certain assurances in the Committee's personal presentation, which he had with the Members, that this will, therefore, be an integral part of economic development in social and sustainable development, which takes into account the limitations of nature, will be able to respect it permanently in the environment. Our trust is not purely "bianko", our trust is based on what we know about his work so far, what we know about the references, what we know about his other intellectual expansion, what we can detect in the conversation, and what tells us that he is not overly tired of treating our society with too many shocks, and ensuring permanent social dialogue and taking into account the social partners, is also something that we will find support for. He assured and we hope that this will also happen, that, like some who performed similar functions before him, he will not give up on the first slip, which will certainly happen. As he ensures that he will take into account the nature, climate, spiritual openness, social justice, and even such high and sound values, we will support his leadership of this service for as long as we are convinced that this is actually happening. We will therefore pay attention to the fact that it is not only the macro-economic indicators that are intended for economic growth that it is not only the elite that thrives in our country and that we do not have hearing just for the biggest development projects. We feel that this service and Slovenia should be directed so that the prosperity we are talking about is dispersed. That it will be dispersed in both social and territorial layers in our country, that it will also be dispersed as regards age and sexual structure. Let this prosperity not only be economic, let it also be social, let the prosperity for future generations be that of our environment, which we can still be proud of, compared with the degradation of the environment in some other countries throughout Europe and around the world. And in the hope that the ambitions presented by the candidate for a minister will be realized, we are putting ourselves in a line that will help this implementation. We are therefore in the DeSUS Group for a calm, accelerated development path, not for radical reform, not for shock therapy, but for a better life for everyone and for the spread of prosperity. So, with such ambitions and the belief that it is capable of creating, we will also support Dr. Žigo Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin with my well-respected colleagues with a little bit of humor. So, welcome, colleagues and colleagues, back to the regular 6-month appointment of the Minister for Reform! This irony is meant more seriously than it seems. It illustrates the embarrassment that the Government and the President of this Government have with the Minister, who has a long and bureaucratic title, the Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy and the service he runs, the Government Development Service. In two years we have loved another minister, and in the meantime we have been led by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Let me briefly summarize the history of this government's development and reform efforts, colleagues and colleagues. The government, as we know, has launched a forecast of major and extensive reforms that are expected to awaken Slovenia in a few years and top the modern, agile and competitive countries. We will never be the greatest, but we can best be the password of the Prime Minister, for whom, if I am not mistaken, he has also won a prize. Today, after more than two years, we can only find that the great upheaval of comprehensive and extensive reforms has turned into exactly what some have predicted, this is in, let's say, opportunistic graduateism and incrementalism, not much worse than the ones that we've seen before, maybe it's not even so bad. We can even thank the government for not doing everything she planned. The previous minister also left with illusions of major changes, and there was a rhetoric of reforms and a service that should first and foremost legitimise the Government as a whole and give her the impression that she had a vision of working more than a day in control of the country. I do not mean to say that there are not a few people in this service who have experience and good ideas and who could benefit, even benefit, from the better functioning of the government. However, in relation to ministries, they are placed in a second-rate position because they do not have those executive and administrative powers to enforce their ideas. These few officials or experts in this Government Development Service are faced with a couple of tens, even a couple hundred officials in other ministries, who take this service as something that weighs them down all the time, as a job that has no responsibility, which interferes with their responsibilities, for which they are legally responsible. The Government Development Service is a service without real powers and if I give a slightly more graphic comparison, the new minister will sit in a super modern car with all electronic devices and devices, the only engine he will not have. This is the real problem that the Minister will face, the previous Minister has met with him, the Minister has the will and the momentum, believes in co-operation even past political divisions, which we welcome, while he will not have the tools to do what he has set out to do in such a structured government as we know it well. So another vision factory. Today, when we are overwhelmed by the visions that we still lacked so much in 2002. Let me remind you. We have a strategy for the development of Slovenia, we have a Barcelona Strategy, we have an application of the Barcelona Strategy to Slovenia, we have a framework for reforms and we have so-called mega projects. We literally dig in visions, and we hope that these big changes will happen just because we swear on them. In the Independent Parliamentary Group to Dr. Žigi Turku, whom we also know from professional life - although I also cooperated with him on certain matters - we will not oppose the candidate. The presentation, which included two toilet brushes, impressed him. Regardless of our concerns about the job he is running, we believe he has the right to try to make a difference, to have the right to try to hit, if not already a target, but at least close to it, but we recommend that he also calculate in his efforts the possibility that he will not succeed or be disappointed. I personally liked that the candidate quoted a well-known sociologist in his performance as a guru of developmental sociology, American sociologist Richard Florida, who, for example, put three Ts, Technology, Talent and Tolerance as a recipe for good social and economic development. Florida is very effective in proving that those regions and cities that show greater social and cultural tolerance are also making more rapid progress, that innovation is the product of confrontation and intertwining, as well as the mutual enrichment of different cultures and lifestyles. And how to use this finding in Slovenia, where we have quite a few talents, where we are technologically quite good in some selected areas, the tolerance that was at least once characteristic of Slovenia is weak, disappears before our eyes from day to day. In Slovenia, there is growing intolerance to different forms of control, increasing visibility of it, and all of this is not only a spontaneous trend, but is increasingly encouraged by conscious government policy in many areas. Let us see what laws we adopt, from culture, from internal affairs and from Roma affairs. Therefore, this development lacks what is specific to others and this is precisely the tolerance. Without this tolerance, without everyone having the opportunity, even other thinkers, without ideological restrictions, without counting who is who, this development will not be and today this is not the case in Slovenia. That is why, of course, the candidate who is not among us is not President of the Government, but I believe that the candidate is in a special government room or at home in front of television. That is why, Mr candidate, we wish you luck, but we do not believe that the context in which you enter is such that you can do something serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed candidate, Dr. Žig Turk, for a minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy. Today we can say that in Slovenia we have a clear strategic goal - to increase employment and social well-being, so that we can achieve this, we need to increase competitiveness and growth of the economy, which is not possible without knowledge, knowledge is the most important factor in all this story. Investments in knowledge are needed because this only allows innovation, which brings new products of higher added value, which increase productivity, economy, higher economic growth, new jobs, reduce unemployment and ensure greater social security and ultimately the well-being of all. Today we will probably not talk about whether we need a service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to coordinate and monitor and implement the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, whether its purpose and its tasks are right, since it was established by a decision of the Government at the end of 2005 with a very clear objective, the plans and concepts of work are known and the work done so far by this service, which is already embedded in the indisputable successes of the current government and coalition, as the economic indicators also show. Today we are talking about the suitability of the candidate to run this government development service, the Minister without a charter, who takes over the baton of leadership, of course, if he receives the support of this National Assembly and tries to upgrade it in a way that is even more effective with his knowledge and abilities. The expert references of Dr. Žig Turk confirm that this is a highly qualified candidate, whom we believe in the parliamentary group that he will know and be able to link the theory to practice. We agree with its objectives that more written ideas must be converted as soon as possible into marketable, competitive products, create a cheaper country and create more jobs. That he is ready to achieve these goals, to set all his expertise, experience, will and perseverance and energy shows his response to the invitation to the ministerial team when he wrote down, I quote: "It is a great honor to be invited to work for his country." Dr. Turk has a lot of experience in development research. It has international visibility and expertise to understand strategic development goals and guidance from the framework of economic and social reforms, and therefore we believe that the needs and development of Slovenia and the Slovenian economy are being properly considered. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support its vision for the development of the country and the leadership of the Development Service, which it has brought to three key points: creativity, entrepreneurship and self-confidence, with the emphasis that we need to encourage entrepreneurial behaviour immediately, that creativity is crucial in our further development, and that it is time for creativity to be integrated into education and science and not least that we need more confidence that we will be able to plan and also to carry out big and bold projects. As Minister without a Charter, Dr Turk will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia and economic and social reforms. He will therefore assume a large part of the responsibility for our joint development and our common future, which is not only the future of the coalition, but also the future of the opposition and of all Slovenian citizens. We are confident that the Development Service, led by Dr Turk, will successfully coordinate the work of the focal points, motivate, coordinate, seek synergies between the various measures and the various resources, in order to help develop and creative thinking and to provide professional assistance and cooperation with the ministries in the preparation of laws, regulations and other acts necessary to achieve the objectives set. Much in the field of reforms has already been done, but work and activities to implement reform measures for an efficient, cheaper and modern social state with higher employment must be continued. As the development strategy is being implemented today, the Minister without a charter, who will coordinate the preparation and implementation of these measures and will have an overview of how things are going and coordinate the various individual activities that will need to be carried out at the same time. In the case of Dr Turk, then, it is an educated, viewed and working expert described by the interlocutors as a solid personality acting calmly on the part of his fellow workers, thinking very realistically and systematically. We expect the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to give even more emphasis to technological development and education, where there is a shortage and in this area its technical orientation is still desirable. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that Dr Turk will support the introduction of new technologies, encourage research and development to show all his experience in the field of management, and will also quickly gain strong authority that he will be able, with team and individual work, to find the points of reference between different interests and views of development and strategy, that he will also be able to coordinate different interests within the Government, between ministries, with the National Assembly, with the social partners and with the public. To achieve the goals that he has set himself, and we expect that from him. On the Committee on the Economy, Dr Turk, the candidate presented his vision of the current situation in Slovenia, stressing that macroeconomic indicators show that the situation is good. Economic growth is increasing, inflation is within the expected limits, productivity is increasing, public finances are in good shape, public debt is not too high. However, some reforms are still needed, and this is now because it may be too late later. Therefore, the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023 answers questions about what else needs to be done in Slovenia in order to maintain a sufficiently high level of competitiveness that enables the social state, the welfare state and all that is based on successful economic development. To be able to follow globalisation in order to create a modern, social state that will give everyone a decent life, including those who will be less successful in the economic development process, in order to ensure their safety and human life, a quality health and sustainable pension system. Dr Turk also said that much had already been done in the area of reforms, but we still have important reforms ahead of us: reform of labour law, reform of social transfers, reform of the pension system, reform of higher education and reform of health care. Here we also see the activities and work of Dr Turk to be able to listen and coordinate the various interests of the social partners and find acceptable solutions. This requires not only knowledge but also perseverance, patience, perseverance and co-operation, which are qualities that Dr Turk believes he has. In implementing the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, however, this is an extremely complex and interdisciplinary project which interferes with systemic and organisational measures in all government departments. That's why he needs to be centrally guided, from the government's own office, and he has to have the most competent guardian, that's, the Prime Minister of the Government. However, in order to carry out such a major project of national importance, the Head or Minister without a licence must also have managerial skills in addition to theoretical knowledge. This means that it must be targeted, know how to guide, motivate, coordinate, control, coordinate and correct. All these abilities his predecessor, unfortunately, did not show. In our Group of Members, we believe that only those individuals who have never conducted important projects can say that this project does not need central leadership or that it can be guided, as has been said in the past, by a finance minister. Only those who can speak of the unnecessary need for a government development service, the need for a minister without a licence, and only those who can claim that the costs for this service are unnecessary. The strategy for the development of Slovenia is, in our view and belief, a national project, since it is the future of our country, the perspective of young people, social and labour security of the population, the security of the older population and, last but not least, the greater social well-being of everyone in this country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we trust the Minister's candidate Dr Turk, the Government, the President of the Government as the custodian of this project, as well as the public at large, that we will all together be able to achieve so much wisdom that we will successfully achieve and achieve the objectives set, because the future belongs to the brave, persistent and capable. The candidate, Dr. Žiga Turka, will certainly be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u14	Good-bye! I intended to start my performance with the classical, respected President of the Government, distinguished ministers, unfortunately I cannot, we have all left, and they are obviously not interested, not in the President of the Government or the Minister, but in the opinion of at least the parliamentary groups, if I understand that they will not insist on the whole debate until the end, but that is how it is. The government knows that it has a coalition behind it, and this coalition has no doubt about what we are going to do today and it does not want to hear our opinions and our comments on what we have to say to the government and the ministers. That's the way it is. That's why only respected colleagues, colleagues. A good year ago, exactly 20.12.2005, I mentioned the arguments for this speaker why at the LDS House of Members we gave up our support to the first Minister without a license responsible for development, Mr Jožet P. Damjan. Today, in the LDS, we find again that we were right when we warned that this Government of Slovenia is leading to a society of social differences, social exclusion, life without solidarity and social dialogue. Let me base on three points why we also do not need a Minister for Development today and why we will oppose the appointment of Mr Turk. First time. Because we have not seen any concrete reforms in Slovenia so far, and because they have not been and obviously will not be, the Prime Minister has started to talk about the Minister for Development or Development. Another time. Since the service led by Mr Žiga Turk does not have the right content and actual powers, even the candidate points out that at more than half the term of office, his first task will be to define the competence of the development service. The government is obviously also taking part in these powers, which the candidate for minister is still thinking about. This shows the Government's decision to amend the decision on the establishment and employment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's development service, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 19, on 2.3.2007, by which the Government takes away an additional part of the autonomy of the development service to be led by Mr Turk as it takes away the financial and human resources tasks and other joint tasks. And the third time. If Mr Turk wants to implement reforms, or if you want to achieve development now, he should become the Minister of Finance, who is key to implementing reforms or development, but obviously that will not happen, and I believe that Mr Bajuk will not allow him to do so either. Since the great media promotion of reforms, which we have spent more than a million euros on, it has remained only a form. From the resounding slogan of Slovenia tomorrow - a state of prosperity, we have only received unilateral tax changes, which have further increased inequality, reduced justice in society and the competitiveness of the economy is not improving. The government has obviously gone beyond the reform project to talk about them, rather than actually to do something. And now he's talking about a resolution, about some development projects that need a coordinator, and this is supposed to be Dr. Turk. We do not understand how Dr Turk should coordinate the construction of the island on the Slovenian coast in order to coordinate the construction of the mega amusement park near Ptuj, in order to coordinate the construction of the railway infrastructure instead of the minister. So these are inconsistencies that apparently the government can't find the right answer to. We have also repeatedly drawn attention to the inadequacy of the work that Mr Giga Turk is now supposed to have taken. A whole bunch of more or less media-response reformers have emerged, and to the development breakthrough, if you want to get to a highly competitive Slovenia, there is obviously a long way to go. We do not deny Dr Turk the professional references of our field, this is building information and research activities in this area, we do not renounce the drive and lack of ideas, but because of all the above support. However, the lack of political kilometre in the case of the minister, who is expected to convince the other ministers of development priorities and coordinate their work, weakness and not the advantage. Dr. Žiga Turk's candidate, professionally dominant and politically analphabet, has not even noticed a warning from his predecessor, Dr. Damian, who himself notes that the Prime Minister and his Government are obviously more busy winning social positions than they are interested in the competitiveness of the economy, greater employment, development and the like. See you as a developmental conscience, Mr Turk stressed the presentation on the home committee. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that more than a developmental conscience, at the end of the term, it will produce a bad conscience when it discovers that this Government with reforms or development has never taken seriously. We will therefore not support the candidate for the new Minister of Development, Mr Žig Turk, at the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The President of the Government is already addressing human resources issues in three ministries with proposals today. She has this right, and we don't oppose her. We simply repeat that we were right when we for a long time warned that many departments are not working and that better human resources solutions will be needed. We stress that this is still the case today and that, before the Presidency of the European Union and in recent months, when even more serious substantive proposals by the Government are possible, it would be useful to review the efficiency, legality and efficiency of the work of many more pillars and to assess whether public criticism of their operation alone does not deserve a new solution. Mainly here I mean health, defense, environment and space, the police. However, the Prime Minister of the Government prefers to solve specific cases, eliminate abuse of positions, eliminate suspicious transactions and payments that go through public calls and so on, decided to draw under a pile of papers a dusty letter saying "Ministery without a Resource, Ministry of Development". It was said that the Ministry had stagnated without a minister for more than a year. Of course, the matter has much broader dimensions and far broader negative consequences. Let us remember that the Prime Minister has already been turned his back on the government: to exclaim Dr. Mićo Mrkaić, he also turned his back on Jože P. Damian, when he saw that he was only a puppet without the right powers and that Mr Janš also left Andrej Horvat, who had turned away from political institutions and dedicated himself to the economy. In two years, many young scientists, development economists and others have turned their backs on the government. If I wanted to be well-intentioned, I would find that the Government does not understand the development of Slovenia, which means it does not support it, as it revolves around it like a cat around hot porridge. However, if I wanted to be more realistic, then I would have found that the Government did not set specific powers for the Ministry of Development today, after two and a half years. In fact, the government is run by government ministers, in particular areas, and budget documents clearly show that the Government does not want to concentrate resources for the development of Slovenia. The key question, then, is: To what place will the ruling coalition today enthroned Dr. Turk? It will be the new Minister for Reform; if so, for what reforms? Will it support the purchase of weapons at the expense of reducing social security? Will he oppose the wild privatisation of health care, which will make it impossible for most people to access basic health services? Will it oppose the irritation of electricity that will drive new people below the poverty line? What does it have to do with greater flexibility in the labour market? And I could count it. We do not hide disappointment from the social democrats, because the candidate for the hearing did not offer answers to such substantive questions, and he was also unclear about the definition of his role in the government. On my own behalf and on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, I can say that I personally have nothing against Dr Turk, although he entertained us very much at the hearing by presenting the ordinary and the "hitech" broom for the toilets. I hope that in Europe too they will see this message as a joke and not as a new strategic positioning of Slovenia in service activities. Let me conclude that in all cases, including those I have listed in the introduction, the responsibility for the discharge of ministers and for the quality of the new proposal is, in particular, the responsibility of the President of the Government, Mr Janša. He proposes or he will work with him and give him work assignments and oversee his work. As an opposition party, we cannot therefore influence his choice and his work, and we do not want to take responsibility with the support of his election. Therefore, in this case, we will not support Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats for the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u18	Well-known, distinguished Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We accept the proposal of the Government or the President of the Government to appoint a Minister without a Charter responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia in the New Slovenia Group as a further implementation of the coalition commitment that the Government will work for the welfare of Slovenia. As part of the coalition in the New Slovenia Group in the personal composition of the Government, we insist on consistent respect for the established criteria, such as: good knowledge of the area, it is said, the department, professional competences, vision and motivation for its realization, commitment to work for the public benefit, integrity and respect for the ethical code, leadership and abilities, and could also be listed. In the New Slovenia Group, we trust the decision of the President of the Government, and we believe that his proposal has been carefully reconsidered and has chosen a candidate who, according to his assessment, meets the required criteria. Based on the conclusion that Slovenia is losing its global competitiveness due to the slowness of the changes, structural reforms were needed, which the new Government has also undertaken. A set of measures taken to improve the standard of living of all people in Slovenia and a more competitive and successful economy has already led to a set of tax reforms. All the measures implemented have been subordinated to the objective of achieving the criteria for taking over the euro, which we have also succeeded in. We are not aware of this important achievement of our country, but we need to maintain it. Not only do we need to maintain it, we need to ensure the conditions for the breakthrough and who can provide it. In his presentation, the candidate for minister drew attention to an important aspect - everyone's involvement. He says, "Development means a better life for everyone, not necessarily a richer life, better. But probably a little better for those who contribute more. They will pull the wagon forward, but they must all have the opportunity to contribute." It is therefore on all of us the responsibility of Slovenia to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. The largest is certainly on the President of the Government, who has proposed to us the host for further development steps. The freshness of his performance is directly provocative, for the listener is very uncomfortable, even with a smile. Nevertheless, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the freshness is a reflection of innovation, which distinguishes the candidate significantly from all of the past. Clearly, his boldness is no stranger, and without it there is no development. No big risks, no big profits. We believe that Slovenia needs big steps if it is to be included among the most developed countries. Only developed countries can provide prosperity to their populations. Dr. Gigi Turk's development is certainly not foreign. His statement or response to the invitation to work in the Government read: "I really believe that this is an honorable duty and that such invitations are only rejected exceptionally. On the other hand, this is also a challenge." Or maybe those who are constantly doing something general and strategic about it. Surely one of the qualities of the proposed candidate is also commitment to public service. The declaration that the work of the Government is an honorable duty, which we reject only exceptionally, surprises us in the New Slovenia Group. The rare thing is that someone hopes to demonstrate publicly how much his country and public service in his government mean to him. This statement also reflects the other personality characteristics of the applicant. As chairman of Telekom's Supervisory Board, he once said: "I do not work for meetings, I understand the owner that he wants to promote saving and modesty in all areas." Surely, in the world of computer science, where some believe that he was among the best programmers, even on an international scale, he would realize higher revenues. But as he himself says, "The state as a minister will not stand much longer than a professor." More than eloquent is his decision to resign from the chairmanship of the Supervisory Board of Telekom in the event of his appointment as Minister. As we have been able to understand from the media, the proponents and critics of Dr. Žig Turk's candidacy agree that this is a man of sight and expertise. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the decision of the President of the Government, in the first place because the responsibility for the work of the Government is on his side. The Department, which connects all other ministries and directs them to the development goals set out in the Slovenian Development Strategy and in the Resolution of the National Programmes, the Prime Minister is prepared to trust Dr. Žigi Turku. Members of New Slovenia will support him in this. However, we want and expect the candidate to combine his successful academic career and personality qualities into a successful ministry. This is for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia as well as for personal satisfaction. Its forecast will thus be realized that the Government of Development service should not only monitor the reform measures already taken, but rather encourage and help to ensure that all the activities of the State and as much budgetary money as possible, which in large cases does not currently have a developmental label, developmental orientation. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the candidate for a minister without a charter responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy, Dr. Žig Turk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u20	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! Development is a key goal of every country that wants to be successful in the long term in all areas, of course, each country and individual is engaged in different ways and with different receptions. The creation of a special ministry or government development service is certainly one of the indicators of how serious these issues are addressed by individual countries or by the government in particular. We have a government development service in Slovenia, but it has been without a competent minister to take care of this area for some time. We can generally say that, from this point of view, the proposal for a new minister makes sense and that we have been waiting for the proposal of the President of the Government for some time in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. On the website of the Government of Slovenia Development Service, we can read that it has the following tasks: the service coordinates and monitors the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia and economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, provides professional assistance and cooperation with ministers in the preparation of laws, regulations and other acts necessary for the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy and reforms in Slovenia, coordinates the work of government departments on economic and social reforms and coordinates the implementation of the Resolution on National Development Projects. With regard to the candidate for Minister Žig Turk, we can find that he has a lot of experience and knowledge, which is largely linked to the tasks in the field of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s development service. We believe, therefore, that this is a competent candidate in the Group of Members. From his presentation to the Committee on the Economy, we can see that his programme is based on creativity, entrepreneurship and confidence. We absolutely support these foundations in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but note that their success depends largely on all other sources and institutions in the country. But you could say the main thing and start school. Even though the Minister will try to encourage creativity in various ways, it cannot be successful if the school system with special emphasis on higher education does not teach young people entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation. In fact, the other goals of the job are similar. Each minister must prepare the basis, legislation and measures in his field to encourage the development of Slovenia. The Minister's candidate correctly notes that his role is not the role of a super minister, who will carry out key issues and enable Slovenia to develop more rapidly. Its role is primarily the role of the coordinator and the facilitator. It is the duty of all other ministries to prepare substantive changes and movements in their area that will enable the development of Slovenia. This is certainly where the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Higher Education are the first. For we cannot expect coordinated thinking, much less the creative work of our people, if our education has not encouraged them from the very beginning. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find that Dr. Žiga Turk is a suitable candidate and we will support his appointment as Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. We expect the Minister to be well coordinated in the work of various other ministries and government services. From the government, as a whole, it will also be ready for further changes that can provide Slovenia with rapid development and success in the future. Above all, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we want the Minister's mandate to be carried out successfully and that this alone will last until the end of the Government's mandate, and he will not give up the courage to manage his job successfully at the first "fun fun" given either by the position or opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded our presentation of the opinions of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The appointment of Dr. Žiga Turka comes at a time when Slovenia is going well. The average economic growth is 1.6% more than the average growth in the 15 EU Member States. Inflation remains within the criteria, productivity is growing, the situation of public finances is stable and within the Maastricht criteria. On the other hand, I am sure that we can and must do more in Slovenia. The period in which we are located can be an additional impetus for all that is to be done within the framework of the coordination of the development service, including in the context of other resources. It is therefore pleased with the candidate's conclusion that it is necessary to stop writing programmes and documents and that things need to be done and implemented. In the Slovenian economy and in general among our people, there is no lack of creativity, entrepreneurship and confidence. I think that we are all aware of this, and that the problem is probably not the fundamental problem of our society here. The candidate was also crippled in this entrepreneurial environment. Otherwise, it's completely different with the public administration system. It is already, by definition, a complex, relatively ostensible system for the flow of decisions, where the speed of decision-making is significantly longer than that of the other spheres. And here I think that a process is needed, which will first lead to a change in the thinking of those who will have to realize that they need to behave in the same way as in all other spheres, because they are part of this society and are also in charge of carrying out procedures and processes at the time when they are given this responsibility, which are also responsible for these jobs. I think the candidate here, given his ambitions, is waiting for the hardest job. Here's a process that's been started. We must be honest, with great opposition from the opposition in this National Assembly, when it comes to relatively small amendments to legislation that should allow for nothing but equality between private and public sector employees. Without this equality, both in rights and in obligations, there is no effective functioning of the State, there is no effective action in the public sphere and there is no success in all those areas defined by the strategic documents of that country. Because it's not a problem with too little creativity and entrepreneurship in the private sphere, it's not a problem here. The problem that our society has been facing for some time is the procedures that make it difficult and longer for us to make the decisions that are needed for faster development. Today, I could - and I could probably use the time of all the groups of Members - to give you a list of the cases that point to this and which we cannot possibly outrun. Things are going to go so far as to question the effective use of funds from a favourablely negotiated perspective for the period 2007-2013 in this year, when calls for these funds are likely to take place in periods when funds will be very, very difficult to use and draw on in a timely manner. Here the importance of this service and the support of this department is very important. As a result, it is expected that the candidate in the National Assembly would be as widely supported as possible, as this support will also depend on the success of the task which, if you listened to his presentation on the Home Committee, is willing to face it seriously and also, in my opinion, can be accomplished, of course not without the cooperation of all those who can help him in this area. The candidate comes from the area of construction. So he knows very well that in our society it is still such that it takes much less time to build something than to obtain all the necessary documents, permits and all the procedures necessary to start such a process. So here is this walnut that needs to be crushed, and the ambitions that this candidate has are pointing in this direction. So he's got a hard job ahead of him. If, in conclusion, I can illustrate with a comparison that some of you thought was funny, with these toilet brooms, in my opinion, in this place where the candidate is coming, and I believe that he will be appointed today, it is not about how to raise an individual, that he will buy more quality and environmentally acceptable products despite a significantly higher price. In this place where the candidate is coming, the task is much more difficult. It is about coordinating its task with all other departments, but also, of course, with our support, because I think it is a joint project when we talk about the development of Slovenia, creating the conditions for the good ideas of an individual to be able to live in practice, but not that the administrative procedures of this idea will already be suppressed, and that the country will be able to ensure, on the other hand, that our citizens will be able to buy more expensive and better products. And on this journey, I wish him good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u23	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Turbulent developments around this ministry over the past two years, many words, many piranhas, many circuses, many forms and many failed content. We had the Reform Committee, the Minister for Development, in our two-year genesis, and later we had a minister who quickly said good-bye and went sailing elsewhere. It was inherited by a development partner, inherited by another development lady. Now there is a candidate, Dr Turk, who is no longer concerned about reforms, but about coordinating and implementing development, which is some kind of a stickler. Okay. But is the creativity, entrepreneurship and greater self-confidence that Mr Turk spoke of at the "hearing" enough for the ministry, where it is not clear what its powers are? And that's the main problem that I'm talking about today, not the first. What, say Mr Turk tomorrow to say about the new tax in the notes on the author's fees for compulsory health insurance, for example, or for 34% of the increase in the contributions of independent creators, that is to say those of today's creators who are betting that more entrepreneurship, creativity and confidence and 30,000 independent creators, craftsmen, athletes and so on will face a major financial shock tomorrow. In short, the creativity and entrepreneurship that Mr Žiga Turk is talking about today will be more expensive tomorrow. Side throws will be more expensive tomorrow, and they'll be in a spot like someone else did before. And the candidate doesn't seem to know what he's getting into. That's good, too. But every month, whoever knows what he's getting into, and that's the Prime Minister, he's sacrificing someone. John Janša today introduced a new victim with explanations that there is a need for a stronger cognitive role of strategy, familiar. Known roles happen elsewhere, usually at institutes and in other circles, but still. And because it also needs a new impetus, development itself, but for those projects that are included in the 2007-2023 book, in short, for galactic and other mega projects and for new islands. If you instruct the Minister in 2007 to take care of the translation of these mega islands and projects that are scheduled for 2023 into scratch, in fact you kill him in some way, so that I don't say flush and there's a problem that can end with those "ministers killing or not" or "Minister Kills the Government, doesn't it" in this department. Why? Because this ministry is a drain because it's an alibi because it's a dump because I'm not saying it's also a government purgatory. It's flushing with a designed broom, but it's flushing. And if the thought that gives me doubts about the powers of this ministry, which I understand as the pianist exodus of the Government, ends with words from the voice of the people written in a forum, I say or take "Mr Janez Janša has this job for development only for make-up," says a writer from the voice of the people. He'll only take into account what won't hurt him in the next election. The job must be to make things look serious, but it's actually unnecessary. And these are the concerns that will, of course, cheer me up when I face this candidacy and be cautious about it. My colleague Gantar said earlier that the candidate has the right to listen. But let me add that these experiments and these experiments are expensive for those who try and are cheap for those who launch experiments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u25	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much, colleagues, colleagues, Mr President. From everything you've said about Dr. Turk, you can see who he is, what he is, what he wants and what he's supposed to do. But I am listening more and more carefully to the debate, so much the more I appreciate that today is not the question of Dr. Žiga Turk, that the Minister without a license or not, but the question is raised by the Government Development Service, yes or no. Because, by all accounts, I will not say who is right now, I will first touch politics or apoliticalism. The story is perfectly clear. If this man we are talking about today - and I am not speaking specifically of Mr Turk - was a political person, it would be clear that the current ruling coalition would not support him if, say, he was politically more on the left side. On the contrary, as has been the case in the past, if there was any other option of the proposed man from the opposition, it would not support it. So apoliticality is not a bad quality, even more so if a person is an expert. I say that if we already have a government of development service and this job, colleagues and colleagues, but not since yesterday, someone has established it, and this establishment is likely, we all knew about it, and perhaps, at least in part, we also had the power to decide, this service yes or no, so the Government of Development Service is and this one needs someone who, as we have heard, will, as we have heard, be "coordinated". Coordination, however, theoretically means integration, coordination, governance and enforcement. And they doubted that this coordination could leave Dr Turk only the execution of what the President of the Government would say, whether it be Mr Janša or anyone else. But we don't know that until now. If Mr Turk is, and I have to believe him, given that his biography of his work and knowledge, at least in the field of development is quite rich, so if Mr Turk does anything - I'm sure he can't do anything wrong, but maybe he can do something good. I don't know, but the man in this position, if we already have this job, has to be, and we'll all have the right to turn to him. In particular, he did not impress me as a member of the Slovenian National Party, but he gave me a ray of hope for further development, saying that development was our common goal. Why this is hope - because where the goal is, there are paths. There are more, but where there is a goal, there are paths; but where there are paths, it is not clear that there is still a goal. Above all, it is also important that he has been very involved in the past years, not only in this mandate, but also in the development of national values. Slovenia is still Slovenia, although it is an integral part of a large country called Europe. Last but not least, I am glad that if we already have this job that I can turn to, because we have certain things that are or are not in the Development Programme Resolution. And I will, if Mr Turk is appointed Minister without a licence, of course, make a strong use of this minister, convincing him that certain things are probably good, but not certain, or that they are flawed. And last but not least, development is not just reform. In this sentence, it is of substantive importance if someone wants to understand it. Colleagues and colleagues at local levels, those who are my colleagues as mayors, we also have different regional development centres, then we have entrepreneurship development centres. And it is true that many of the centers for the development of entrepreneurship, which is in a municipality, is just because it is, and is the consumer of gross wages. However, a number of entrepreneurship centres in the local community create two- or three-fold added value, paying for themselves and something else. It's always been thesis and antithesis, we have the government's work for development, the government's service for development has to work because it gets paid, we can and we have to oversee it, and this service needs guidance. And if, at least in the words of many and even after presenting the opinion of the Committee and so on, the opinion on Dr Turk is positive, we will take the risk and believe in it, it is still time and there is still a chance that opinions and facts will change. And another very important question. No government has ever been eternal, nor has it existed. What about this job and the secretary without a ticket in case the government changes in proportion? I hope that the service and the minister will be without a ticket, in which case even an apolitical one, even because the state must develop further, whether it is led by a right or a left option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u27	Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. "Capacity, creativity, confidence" is the password used to present the candidate for the Minister of Development, and if we come from these passwords I could say that they are, or from this password, I can say that the content is right. However, I am asked a few questions, which I have already raised at the time of Mr Damjan's appointment, as the Minister without a licence responsible for development. Given that this is an innovation, I believe, of this government, which in some way makes the Prime Minister more personally committed to what this minister will be in his cabinet, because it is a minister without a charter that falls directly under his authority, in fact this minister will in some way be the face of the Government regarding the development of Slovenia. I would like to know, of course, what this precise role will be for this Minister of Government. Maybe I'd like to make my own expectations known. The Minister for Development must be a link between all actors, from local level, I could say even an individual, to individual ministries, to the President of the Government. In fact, this is the right hand of the President of the Government and in some way, as has already been established, I cannot imagine otherwise as the executor of the decision of the President of the Government on the issues of the development of Slovenia. In doing so, of course, I would ask certain questions about the reform measures announced during the previous ministry, how long do we need this service? For I myself assess that the whole Government must act with the objective of coherent regional development and that the establishment of new institutions and new segments of the Government alone does not contribute to this. In view of the candidate's profile, which has personally proved that he is a creative person who cares for his future; in this I must say one positive future, because if we look at the situation in which the entire European Union is located and with which Slovenia is also worth it, in this global situation, it will be necessary to highlight and include all the events of an individual, future development without the involvement of an individual, without self-initiative. If this happens to the new minister through all these communication requirements, as I have already said, between the individual, the local community, the government, if it manages to move at least a little of this consciousness, then this is certainly a step that is possible. However, it is very difficult for me to imagine that a minister could play a role, in some way a superviewer, to all ministers on behalf of the Prime Minister, in terms of development projects. That is why I am asked how a successful individual, who is a candidate for a minister, in the academic and creative field, will prove himself as a minister, a minister means a political function. And that is my key question that I would like to hear from both the President of the Government and the candidate himself. How will the Ministry of Higher Education link education to the economy, how will it link education to the economy, how will it link the current trend already introduced through the Law on Harmonised Regional Development with local communities, or are reviews or reflections of the mechanisms currently in place? In my opinion, this is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, a minister like that won't be able to do much. And maybe just one more point. In the past, Slovenia has invested heavily mainly from infrastructure in areas that were poorly developed and where there were no people. I think that this is a wrong trend, so I recommend to the new minister that, within his powers, he encourages investment in infrastructure where people are still in it and that where people are still allowed to have the opportunity to educate and set up businesses, we know that it is an old doctrine, that only small businesses in the globalised world are perspectives, because they can be flexible enough and that they can move on the personal engagement of individuals. And as I said, above all, the Minister's character has encouraged me in this direction, given that he is a self-created individual, I expect him to know through the powers and powers he will somehow have to move this mentality in the Slovenian space, if he succeeds, I think he has done his job.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u29	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Without a doubt, the economic and social situation in Slovenia today is as it has never been in the past, and it would be very wrong if we did not take advantage of such a situation in order to achieve the goals that we can achieve in this way and become one of the most developed countries in Europe. These are real goals and also attainable. I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also aware of this and has begun numerous preparations for measures and strategies at the beginning of its mandate, which would also pursue these objectives and lead to a so-called development breakthrough in Slovenia. Such an opinion is shared by a number of distinguished experts and says that these goals are ambitious but also completely realistic. If we look back a little bit, we can see that the Government has begun to prepare these measures and strategies in a deliberate, systematic, as consensual way as possible with the social partners or with all those who have received any cooperation in all these strategies. It is true that we have many strategies and that we have not yet been able to realize all of this. Today we have already heard some indications that we have a lot of strategies and little of the effects themselves, but this certainly does not. We know that with the legislation we have adopted and the measures we have achieved significant shifts in both the field of unemployment, we know that economic growth is increasing, among the largest in Europe, the number of newly opened and medium-sized enterprises is increasing and more than those who have ceased to operate, which is certainly due to all the measures that have been taken and to the amended legislation that have been adopted so far. However, it is certainly true that if we want all these strategies to be achieved, all these objectives will also achieve these expected results, this is the easiest and even best possible to achieve only in a way that connects these strategies, that all these measures are being pursued and that it is coordinated among all those who must also implement this strategy, that is, in particular, all the ministries of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is exactly the role of this integration, the coordination should have this new or the minister for, as the reforms used to say, but today it is responsible for coordination between ministries. I am of the opinion that the person who runs such a resort must be ambitious, development-oriented, innovative, persistent, courageous, with vision and experience. All these qualities, I'm sure, include Dr. Giga Turk's proposed candidate. I must say that Mr Turk had my support before his presentation in the working body, because his knowledge, the references I know from before, and I must say that I am pleasantly surprised at all the results of his work and there is no dilemma that I could now use these experiences to manage this department. Nevertheless, I was very pleasantly surprised when he had his presentation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group when he said the following sentence. He himself says he sees no valid reason to limit Slovenia to becoming one of the most developed countries in Slovenia. I was pleased with his, such an opinion, based in particular on his extremely good knowledge of the European scientific and research space, the economic space, the entrepreneurial space. And when he compares these things to the potentials we have in Slovenia, his decision is probably based primarily on this potential that we have in Slovenia. I am glad that this is the belief, and I share that view myself. As we know, last year the Prime Minister of the Government felt that Slovenia could be the best among all countries in Europe. It is obvious that in Slovenia we have resources, we have knowledge, we have people who are able to take Slovenia to a development breakthrough. Therefore, all these resources, all these potentials that we have, must be motivated and given the opportunity to actually be able to live. I am convinced that these qualities to do so, this knowledge also has Dr. Žiga Turk, and I am pleased to be willing to participate in the team of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has shown so far that the visionary has the idea that her actions lead Slovenia in the right way, and that he will also be willing to participate in this team by himself, Dr. Žiga Turk. I will be happy to support his candidacy myself, and I am sure that this resource will also lead successfully. I wish him every success in running this department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u31	Mr. Boyan Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to all in attendance! We have before us a proposal for a candidate for a minister without a licence, briefly for the development of Slovenia. We are aware that we all hope that this is an important function, and it is true that our Government is also directing and proposing this candidate as a minister. I personally believe that the Government should also propose a candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, because this candidacy is also extremely important for our development. Especially in the past, when the bank has set a exchange rate on which it is, I will also say directly dependent economic development in each country. But let's leave it, that's actually another story. However, I can say that Dr. Žiga Turk presented himself more than perfectly on the Committee on the Economy because he answered all the questions, including some provocative ones coming from the opposition, especially when some unwaited people wanted certain specific dates and what I know. So I think that, as far as this is concerned, the candidate is very appropriate, as he has proven by his work so far that he will not only theoretically but also work with concrete things and proposals. But I would like to express a slight disappointment at our development partners, these are the Social Democrats, who are somehow working with figs in their pockets. When it was necessary to show on television how they were involved in the Partnership for Development, everything was fine, with smiles, and here we see that they are actually against this ministry, even though they have nothing against Dr. Gigi Turk personally. I think that the duality of some is really showing up here, and it's not good for our development, if we really want to do as we do here all the time, to sail in the same boat, sail in the same direction, that's the direction of development; it's not right for some to row back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u33	Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In my opinion, the candidate for Minister Žiga Turk will be an important government coordinator, co-ordinator as well as guardian and supervisor and partner among all the stakeholders in our country, as well as within Europe and more broadly responsible for development. As responsible for, I think, technological development in particular, in view of its experience and pre-education, there will be some kind of escort or hope to say, Prime Minister of the First Minister, who in this way, in direct cooperation with the President of the Government, will make an important contribution to coordination and rapid and genuine development-oriented decision-making. It also prevented, which is not insignificant, biased interests which are indevelopmental or harmful. It will certainly have a decisive impact on the coordinated and developmental functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and this designation is therefore important and the Development Service is therefore important. It is important to create a developmental and entrepreneurial environment, some call it a sociocultural environment or, if you want, a valuable environment for the performance of the country and successful individuals. I trust that he will be able to tell all his services about the opportunities offered by the information society or the knowledge society. So that it will more closely adhere to the slogans "to it - digital opportunity information technology" instead of the universal, all-powerful orientations of support to vulnerable, less developed exclusively social support, and this will show them a vision of opportunity, for all layers of society and for all ages. Because it is the basis of promotion and personal success in the skills and knowledge of an individual. Now perhaps a little bit more about the parable of the toilet shells, which, at least according to the media descriptions, pardon brushes, brushes that the candidate for a minister without a ticket mentioned. He spoke of one who can be designed and produced and sold by many and others, which is more than a toilet shell, with added market value, higher price and, of course, also under the pre-condition of successful sales. We have a country that, in this respect, is extremely successful in classical products. Like Switzerland, best shoes, best shoes in London you can buy Swiss shoes. The Hour of Swatch is a typical example of how it is possible to achieve success by designing a mass product. Or Smart's car, which is not a mass-sold product, is a product at a good price. Also a Swiss product. I also found information that Prof. Žiga Turk was the project manager of the study of eligibility, the establishment of an electronic system of tolls in the free traffic. This 2004 study discusses which tolling system would be most successful. I'm asking him if we're going to be, even on his own thanks, maybe among the first with such electronic tolls. In fact, we will be the first with the most promising and advanced system that could be implemented in a technology-production partnership, which has great potential for success in the market. The time for this is, of course, short and the parable of these brushes would be the following in this case: the ordinary tolling system we now know, which is a combination of manual, semi-manual and electronic technology with ABC technology and perhaps an approach to its upgrade following the example of an Austrian solution or approach. Or this most advanced brush, which in this case would be this, the most advanced and promising system based on satellite navigation, which is functionally rich and flexible and has great market prospects. In this case, I want both the brushes and, in general, Dr. Žigi Turku to work successfully and cooperate for the innovation and developmental success of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u35	Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Therefore, it is certainly necessary for Mr Žiga Turk today to recognise his professional, scientific references, successful management and creation of certain research and development projects, reputation within the framework of his teaching work. And from this point of view, he can be assessed as a very capable and good candidate for a minister without a license. But the question arises to me whether his predecessor, Dr. Jože P. Damian, with similar references, as young, developmental perspectives, was a successful expert who had the support of both the President of the Government and the ruling coalition and tried to prepare reforms in the reform committee, that is to say, according to the Government's belief to carry out in the Republic of Slovenia. And what was the fate of this young expert. For only a few months, he tried to carry out a very important task as a minister without a charter, which should therefore lead the Government in that part that would coordinate and try to achieve an ambitious reform process in the Republic of Slovenia. No one wondered why it happened that he was such a young, successful expert, in the opinion of the President of the Government, a wider Slovenian public, so quickly ended his important position in the composition of this government. Surely one of the causes of what we are talking about many times today is the poor or undefined role of the Government's service for development in the concept of the work of this Government as a whole. For how to understand that an expert is coming again today, to whom the professional and scientific references speak in superlatives, but at the same time we do not have the answer to whether he will be able to realize what he stands for, that is to say, the three foundations of the principles that we are all talking about today, creativity, entrepreneurship and self-confidence. For if its role is generally undeclared and today we speak of it as a responsibility to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, it is necessary to ask how it will be able to implement these three basic programming orientations without clear powers. Here I would like to reiterate that in fact we are talking only about one set of political measures to mask the developmental failures of this government. Let us recall only the forecasted large reform process in the field of tax policy when the big forecasts of the fight took place. In fact, in social work, tax reform has contributed to increasing differences and increasing social injustice and reducing the rights of those on the social side. How can we justify one of the very important programming reasons, namely creativity and entrepreneurship, which should be based on the R & D orientation of the Republic of Slovenia, if today we can find that we do not carry out the international evaluation of research groups and institutes. And we can see that the consequences of the poor work in this area are already shown by the fact that, according to the EU-25 performance rate in the 6th Framework Programme, according to known data by April 2005, we agreed on the relationship between the tender applications and the contracts concluded in the tail with 15.9% success, followed by Cyprus, Poland and Slovakia. We are particularly unsuccessful in research infrastructure, because we have landed at 25%, while the EU average is 44%. Of course, there are those questions, in what way and what the role of a minister without a ticket will be, so that he can influence such negative assessments of our operation. This also raises a question where there is much talk about trying to improve the transfer of excellence from institutes, colleges, from universities to the economy, and on the other hand, we can see that by amending legislation, tripartite cooperation, in fact, representatives of the economy, it is far from being able to influence processes relevant to research and development. The question is further raised how these development projects can be coordinated in the resolution, but if we can see that we do not have the so-called national programmes adopted in important areas. Here I will mention only two areas that are very important, namely the National Higher Education Programme and the National Health Programme. Can such a conceptual ministry, which speaks of the need to build creativity, be built without such widely accepted national programmes? I think that this is one of the major shortcomings, which is then also blurring, according to some here today, clearly set targets to be achieved in the Republic of Slovenia by the Ministry, the Minister without a licence, namely the Government Development Service. Of course, today it is difficult to talk about the suitability of Dr. Žig Turk's candidate, who has many professional, scientific references, but of course today we are talking about in which segment of the Government will be placed as well as the minister and this development service. Today, we have heard many times that there is a key problem here, that it is a scene, that it is a harmless tiger, which ultimately can only represent a failure of development policy in individual policies, in individual ministries. Today there was also a speech that the candidate for a minister himself was very much on the subject of tolerance. This government itself, with its proposal to replace the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, acknowledged that these tolerances are relatively low, as one of the fundamental reasons for replacing the Minister was the indication that social dialogue is not well maintained. However, the reason for the poor conduct of social dialogue is precisely that tolerance to different perspectives is greatly reduced. How to believe, then, in the constant replacement of individual actors and leaders of this government development service, which through development, is thus losing its ambition through the functioning of this government. From the Reform Committee, we come to the Government of Development service, which replaces successful staff with international references and is only placed in the role of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia, so it is a matter of coordination and monitoring. How can we then justify, on the other hand, that we can believe three basic objectives, namely creativity, entrepreneurship and self-confidence, if, on the other hand, we recognize that it is only coordination and monitoring. What will be the impact this Minister will have on these three important guidelines that he himself represents. It is very difficult to believe that in this period after the analysis of the behaviour of this government, it will be possible to say that any of these goals, which the Slovenian public hear very well, will be creativity, success, entrepreneurship and self-confidence. How to build self-confidence with employees in the Republic of Slovenia, but if we use measures to say that those who lose their jobs will have to take one or more lower levels of employment according to their education. I think there are completely diametric measures here between what's said and what's being done. I wish Dr. Mark Turk's role could be different, more successful, but the government's actions so far do not make me optimistic. We are, of course, expecting that today he will receive the support of the ruling coalition to succeed in presenting that with the model of approach to innovation, for example, with toilet brushes, he will be able to really show on this model the possibilities for creativity and innovation, that these brushes will not be a symbol of anything else that we do on the toilet, that it will once again be one of the ministers, which will flush off time very quickly, because sobriety will be possible very quickly between the ambitions of the young scientist and the expert on the one hand and between reality, power and success of its operation on the other. I wish him as much success as possible on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u37	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u38	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Much has been said about Mr. Gigi Turk, a lot of thanks. I'm joining her. We have also heard a little bit of this roomy comparatively, so as not to touch these, say, media performances that are delicious to one another, others are what they really are. However, I would, in fact, like to say at the outset that I will not object to Mr Žiga Turk's election as Minister for Development or Head of the Government Development Service, however, raise some concerns. There will certainly be no development in this service, there will be some coordination, coordination, comparison of agendas and integration, but development will have to look elsewhere for its bed and table, probably in the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Education, for science and technology, also in the military and elsewhere. And there we need to see whether things are actually development-oriented, it seems progressive, or whether we have some kind of regressive situation that will allow Mr. Žiga Turk to lead the Ministry of the Existence of this Government. It is said, once again, some cover, a demo version to which the attention of the Slovenian public will be directed, that we have already experienced with Mr Damjan with handball, here with other articles of everyday consumption and everyday needs. So what will Mr. Giga Turk coordinate? Whether he will coordinate what we continue to swear on, we cannot see whether he will only blur attention or prevent the view that Slovenia's development at this time is increasing inequality, the breakdown of the social state, the abolition of individual freedom, the creation of only social monologue. That's what he's gonna coordinate now. I am very sorry that such a good expert, who has proved to be so far, is actually using himself to blind the Slovenian public. It would be great, of course, if you led, say, the Ministry of New Technologies, which we don't have, but here we have the biggest backlogs, where development is actually embedded in content and is the development itself of content, and there Slovenia has started to be very, very lagging behind. I, of course, wish Mr Žiga Turk to go well through all these trials, including between Scylla and the Caribbean, which will appear, certainly. And I'm counting on him to be more patient and less unsuspecting than his predecessors who flew away for it. But so far, the Government Development Service has proved to be an extremely negative institution. She ate up good experts like a black hole devouring the stars, and she didn't really give herself anything. Every once in a while, all the attention of the public, as well as of us, and the energy needed for everything else, has turned to fighting and proving things that are really clear to everyone. There's one more thing I'd like to say. On these journeys across the country, through Slovenia, the government promised all sorts of things, especially the developmental, somewhere "ringlspile", somewhere in the islands, I do not know what was promised. I am sure, after all these promises, when I have combed them, that they will only keep the promises she has made in Zasav, because there she has not promised anything. Mr. Giga Turk will also be very able to coordinate this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u39	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Excuse me, excuse me! Mr Mitja Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague and respectable colleague! I will be brief, given that today there is no real opposition debate at this point, which could then hold its own debate. I could still be surprised to see my colleague Squeakle's turn at the end, and he still has a lot of time at his disposal. Nevertheless, I will deliver certain opinions on the debate held so far by some opposition Members and Members of Parliament. I believe that some of these in their debates have mixed the content of this item in the agenda, that they are trying and have also made their political debate and are politicising everything else, just the candidate not giving him a flat-rate assessment. At this point, however, we are talking about a proposal for a candidate for a minister without a licence to run the Development Service, whether it is suitable for this function or not, whether it has knowledge to run this service or not, or whether it has the skills, the management, the human beings needed to run such an important service. I do not understand a fellow Member, Dr Gantar, who is a colleague of Dr Turk's from the academic spheres. Both of them come from academic spheres, that they have such a critical attitude towards their university colleague, if they don't do anything, have no power, is a car without a motor, and so on, even though we know that Dr Turk's candidate has a lot of theoretical knowledge, has references, shows references, has energy, has a vision and is able to run this job. And especially because he'll have powers. I do not know why anything else should be put to the debate except whether the candidate is suitable or not. This service has been operating for more than a year, has a concept, has methods of work, has already been doing work, and it is only necessary to continue and upgrade this work, and for this work, in my firm belief, Dr Turk's candidate is also capable. I also disagree with the statement made that this candidate will be confirmed because he is apolitical. If he were left-handed, he wouldn't be confirmed by the coalition. I can't agree with that. Dr. Turk is really apolitical. He's not a member of any political party. This was also said at the presentation on the parent’s working body. Why don't I agree that if I were left-handed, I wouldn't be confirmed. But he was also Dr. Damian, who himself said at the presentation on his mother's working body that he was left-handed, he received all the support from this coalition. I also disagree with the fact that Dr Turk's candidate for Minister without a license will have no power. That's not true. He'll have as much power as he can. I am confident that the President of the Government will give him all the powers, and he will have as much power in this area as the President of the Government has the power. But I have never heard of it, because we have another minister without a license, Dr. Zhagar, that there is nothing he can do, because he has no power, and I have never heard that before, and we know that Dr. Žagar is doing important work in the field of local self-government to prepare important laws, so he also has power without a license. It's a simple deception to the public. I also do not agree with the request made today to have Dr Turk's candidate or even the Prime Minister explain to us how he will link, how he will lead, how he will negotiate and so on, whether we are interested in this Member's ability to assess this, since Dr Turk is an expert who also has managerial knowledge. And as Members, we must be interested in whether the objectives of the work are achieved, whether the work done is good, what the results of the work are. This can be assessed as Members through macroeconomic indicators, through the preparation of quality laws. We can assess that. That's why Dr. Turk needs time if he's named. And after a certain period of time, we will be able to assess whether he justified our expectations. And here we have the power to act as Members. There was also a discussion about Dr. Damian. What everything and oh and ah couldn't do. I don't agree with that. Dr. Damian didn't justify my expectations. He does have a lot of theoretical knowledge and scientific knowledge, a great theorist, probably a very good professor, and he's missing, that's obviously, management skills. I know this area of management, I've been moving around, I've been working. And Dr. Damian didn't have these abilities, so, according to the local word, he also had a "scagal" very fast. Finally, I would just like to say this: unfortunately, there is no debate that, as I said, could also adapt this debate to continue. I trust the proposed candidate, Dr Turk, and the President of the Government, who is proposing to the National Assembly the confirmation of this candidate that he is a good candidate and I also expect him to justify my expectations. That is why I will also support him and my attitude will be critical in the future if he does not live up to my expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u41	Mrs. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear few colleagues, distinguished colleague, Secretary of State. Many theories, and even more experience, speak of the fact that the company or the state, I stress in this situation, the country, has to think the most about its future development when it is doing well. Slovenia is doing relatively well. This is more recognised by Europe than at home, not least by gracious recognitions and awards to individuals, but also by inviting eminent Slovenians to European institutions, such as the European Academy of Science and Art. According to my assessment, Slovenia has adopted at the right moment a strategy for the development of Slovenia and, as a logical follow-up, a resolution on national development projects for a 15-year period starting this year. I met with a candidate for Minister Dr. Turk for the first time through his and our magazine My Micro. He has been plowing the ice in Slovenia in certain areas of information technology, which have become everyday. From his presentation, I am particularly reminded of his conclusion, which I strongly agree that we have sufficient development documents in Slovenia and that now, I also hope and expect and demand, the time has come for the implementation of these projects, the implementation of future and financial plans, with certain project carriers, with names and surnames, and the reporting of projects in the National Assembly. In all this, however, it is also important to feel that the national economies of small countries can achieve high economic growth very quickly, while at the same time there is a great risk and sensitivity of small economies to external economic risks. Of course, I wish the new Minister a lot of good feelings and wisdom in his decisions for the welfare of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u43	Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Today, of course, we will not talk about Mr Turk, but we will talk about the reform agenda. The message to Mr Turk, whatever I will say, is not meant to him personally, but of course it is meant to the Government and, of course, to Mr Janez Janša, as President of the Government, and because of the wrong moves, personally. Mr Janez Janša mentions in support of the proposal for a candidate that Mr Žiga Turk was a member of the Tax Reform Group of the Reform Committee and that he understands the strategic reform objectives set by the Government in the Slovenian Development Strategy. I must say that both the President of the Government does not understand these objectives and that Mr Turk does not understand them, because if he understood them, then he would know that he accepted the wrong function for the implementation of the reforms. If Slovenia wants to implement reforms, then, of course, Mr Turk should take over the role of Minister of Finance or at least Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Finance, and should do much to harmonise what is written, not in the development strategy of Slovenia, but in what the Government wanted to do, it did not. Allow us to discuss today mainly what should be done in Slovenia, but it has not been done. And all we are doing today is the appointment of a minister for development who will paint beautiful pictures in the rest of this term, as it is called, graphs that Mr Janez Janša will say, "Well, the third development axis must be drawn somehow in Slovenian space". The government that took over Slovenia's governance in 2005 should make some moves. It should ensure that Slovenia is more efficient in order to make the Slovenian state cheaper. For this reason, I will start with tax matters, given that Mr Turk was a member of the Tax Reform Group of the Reform Committee, it should, as stated in the Slovenian Development Strategy, reduce labour taxation and increase capital taxation. That didn't happen. That didn't happen. Indeed, Slovenian companies received tax on paid salaries for cca. EUR 200 million less tax on paid wages, but for EUR 500 million they paid more to the State for the profit tax. In addition to additional taxation, in particular the so-called dead property, or if you want the gradual introduction of the real estate tax, the government should, in particular, provide the real resources of the Slovenian local government, the Slovenian provinces, so that European funds can draw on them without debt. If the Government would do so by providing real resources for European projects, by reducing the taxation of work, then it could start thinking about tax incentives for young families, for searching and for the first housing and tax incentives for pensioners, for those who are working actively today, for the time when we will be retired. All of this has not been done in the reform group of the tax system, of which Dr. Žiga Turk was a member in the Reform Committee. What has the Government done, including the Reform Committee? It is known that, first of all, it has introduced anti-reform in the area of pensions, which is why we already have warnings and even agreement on the part of Mr Šuštersič, Mr Bajuk, and so on, but something needs to be done on pensions. It began with a great deal of debt to local communities because it did not provide them with real resources, so today no one in Slovenia knows how much municipalities are truly indebted, and it is known that it allowed a lot of debt to Darsa and a great debt to Slovenian railways without adequate reforms. In the tax area, after highly single taxation of the Slovenian economy, she used these effects for a single tax gift. The Tax Reform Group of the Reform Committee was nothing more than a group to provide a fee for the so-called free work in the Reform Committee. Mr President of the Government has joined us, and I welcome him very much, and, of course, I continue with the Committee on Reforms. The Reform Committee was appointed after 2005, 2006 and this was done and they said they were working for free but did not work for free. The only measure taken by the Reform Committee was to increase the net salaries of the richest in order to reduce the highest income rate from 50 to 42. And to all of us in this Chamber and to all members of the Committee on Reforms, net salaries have increased from 150 to 250 euros in this Chamber, and to the Government from 200 to 300 euros a month, and therefore the Committee on Reforms or the Committee on Reform Reforms has been a team for the creation of a fee for work in the Committee on Reforms. All members of the Reform Committee have between 2400 and 3600 each year, but the owners or directors of the largest companies have a higher net salary of up to a few thousand euros each year. Let me say it wasn't Mr. Damian's intention. Mr Damian, when he was still Minister for Development, proposed to amend tax legislation, but to keep the net salary. Mr Bajuk and Mr Janša addressed the issue when the Government adopted income tax legislation in autumn 2006 and the result of this group's work on tax reform was to increase the net salaries of members of the committee. It is also the case that these one-off tax effects on profits were also spent on a high one-off payment to the Slovenian budget on coin-making profits for the tax gift. What's the result? When Mr Horvat, the remaining Deputy Director of the Development Service, and Mr Šuštaršič, warned the Minister that we have a 100 billion-dollar gap in the 2007 and 2008 budgets, there was, of course, a so-called non-existent VAT hike and a high increase in excise duties. Mr. Janez Janša said no new taxes last autumn. Excise energy consumption and yesterday's debate on increasing contributions for all self-employed, social transfers, pardon, pension and health allowance, all of which are evidence that these people's tax burdens are increasing and thus financed by a tax gift. The Committee on Reform, of course, also said that, among other tax reforms, there would be appropriate adjustments in the so-called labour market. It's known that none of this is going to happen. No adjustments to the labour market. Therefore, in yesterday's newspapers we can read criticism from some members of the reform committee on non-existent measures in the labour market. And what is the situation facing Mr candidate for Minister for Development? The reform will not work because the government has said that it will not work in its reform mandate, but will take care of the pear operation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But a very specific case. In the context of the reforms, the government also said that it would have a large investment programme, including road infrastructure. Mr President of the Government was in the Savinj-Shale region and said: "In 2008 we will start building a fast road from the Austrian-Slovenian border to the Ljubljana-Cele motorway." Yesterday, we heard in this Chamber that this will soon come into the state's location plan as of 2009. That is why this promise will not be fulfilled. This will be one of the promises that will not be fulfilled in the Youth newspaper, as they have already called it, a white lie. The government says that after adopting the 2007-2008 budget, Slovenian public finances need to be adjusted in 2007, 2008 and the stability programme has worsened the public financial picture, which is why the European Union has said: "The reforms should be scaled up and concentrated on the beginning of the period." How will Mr Turk strengthen the pace of reforms over the last year and a half of his mandate? How it will do so if the Government does not intend to do anything about reforms and, as the data from which the European Commission has also informed us show, there is a deterioration of the so-called primary deficit in 2007, 2008 and a huge EUR 600 million of measures are required in 2009. Mr Turk will obviously not do this again in 2009, so I also assess that his function here is not necessary. Mr Turk could possibly have done something in the 2007 and 2008 reforms if he had a word in mind in the 2007 budget rebalancing and the necessary changes to the 2008 budget. However, given the functions of this development service, it does not have this mandate and will, in 2008, possibly in the second half of 2007, prepare measures for 2009. Mr Turk might be welcome as Minister for Development if, together with the Minister for Regional Development and the Minister for Finance, he could prepare projects to draw up European funds at the right time. However, as we heard yesterday, Minister Zhagar, these projects are being delayed. In 2007, there will be no serious call for action from 2007-2013, we will be very late to draw on the European financial perspective 2007-2013 and therefore the need for one-off measures to limit public spending. Will the Minister for Development help the Minister of Finance to limit public spending? It doesn't seem to be because, of course, his powers don't go that far. When the framework for economic reforms resulted only in the provision of late payment of fees to those who had worked in the context of economic reforms, because, as I said, the only measure that had been implemented was the increase in net salaries due to the reduction of the income scale, after Mr Damian had warned the Minister for Finance that there were major gaps in the economy in the Republic of Slovenia for several months without the Minister for Development, together with Mr Šuštersič. And I didn't feel like we'd miss him very much. The media promotion of reforms was carried out by the Government itself, mainly by the ministers walking through Slovenia, promising but not realizing anything. And what is the situation today? The situation is such that Slovenia has taken over the euro. She did not do so because of Mr Damian or Mr Bayuk, because of the irreparable fixing of the euro and tolar exchange rate on 28 June 2004. And because of those measures, the Marmara tax reforms, which provided high tax revenues in 2005 and 2006. However, the framework for economic reforms has been used mainly to ensure that the money available due to high tax revenues was spent on tax gifts. The years are coming, the years are coming when the negative effects of the crisis, which starts this time with tsunami in the Asian capital markets and spreads towards the European Union, when these measures will also have a negative impact on the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, will have to be more serious. I regret that we are even appointing a Minister for Development who, according to a letter from the President of the Government, is in fact no longer responsible for the framework of economic reforms. The President of the Government says: "He will take care of the strategy for the development of Slovenia." I ask the President of the Government whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is giving up the framework of economic reforms, whether you give up what you wrote in the development partnership, if you say that the Lord will no longer worry about implementing measures that constitute the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia, and this is the framework of economic reforms. What's he even gonna do? Will you be writing a new economic reform framework just before the end of your term of office, or will it be just what we saw in Parliament, that Mr Turk will come and explain to us with these or those design tools where added value should be created in the Slovenian economy. I will conclude with an example which I have been reminded of by one of the ambassadors of the European Union. There is legislation in Slovenia called the privatisation processes of state property and they require transparent procedures. In Slovenia there are many potential added values in Slovenian furniture, in the Slovenian wood industry. An auction was made for one such company. At the intervention of political parties, a foreign partner from one of the European Union countries was informed that there would be no auction because the matter would be sold to a political friend the current political options. A lost opportunity. A lost opportunity to make good products and exports to global markets instead of designer toilet brushes. Why? Only so that gentlemen will turn the assets of this company into real estate in one of the tourist destinations. That's the problem here. The problem is that, from words to words, from the development strategy to the economic reform framework, the final result is only a tax gift to a small handful of richer citizens and creating the problems they are supposed to solve in 2009. I would therefore support Mr Turk if someone could explain to us how the pace of reform adjustments in Slovenia will be strengthened and concentrated on the beginning of the term of office of the individual Government or at least in 2007, in 2008, when it is necessary or necessary to make these measures with a budget rebalancing. Mr Giga Turk, as a great fan of the tax system and a member of the tax reform team in the context of economic reforms, unfortunately took care of the tax gift only for himself. Mr Janez Janša proposes him as Minister for Development. Therefore, I will not support Mr Žig Turk's appointment as Minister for Development, even though Mr Minister for Development could be a good Minister for Science and Research, but unfortunately as Minister for Development, because he does not have the appropriate powers to do so because Mr President of the Government, with the proposed appointment, has also denied him the implementation of the economic reform framework as his programme of work, will not be able to do anything. As my colleague said, reforms have left only forms. And the designer toilet brushes don't do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u45	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr President of the Government, with ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I respond to the absurd thought just expressed that the Minister for Development is an unnecessary function in Slovenia. That's what we heard from the mouth of the former Minister of the Robbery Government. I regret that only now do we have a government that has seen the future, which has also decided to implement non-popular reforms, which only ensure the development and long-term competitiveness of Slovenia and Slovenian products and Slovenian companies. As a result, the Minister for Development and the Ministry of Development is still very important and in my opinion he must have one or two key cities, or he already has them in the preparation and monitoring of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Before I speak any further, I must say, because we are being heard by the audience and by the viewers, by great dissension, in fact, by the indignation that you who are criticising us today, who say this from the present opposition, have drawn up such a rule that the candidate for a minister cannot cooperate, cannot communicate with the public, cannot answer the meeting of the Chamber of Members. Such a rule of procedure and such a solution stemmed from the desire that ministers from people are exalted, alienated, that they are actually a special caste. You're getting a lot of revenge today. The former ministers have made an implosion for one party, now they will make other parties as far as I know. These are actually like dynamite for political space and me, because politics offers competition, competition, I would say that such a situation almost fits. I am confident that now that some former ministers will also go to the Social Democrats, they will also cause what they have done here on this side. And that's good. I understand Mr Pahor that I would like to prevent Yuri's son from coming to Parliament, which is already intended to take Mr Pavli to replace the leader of the Group of Members, to show something in public, as if, I don't know, Mr Kumer doesn't fit him either, and that he has reserves from this Group of Members that are going to go there. I look forward to such a development if we are already talking about development today. These ministers are actually able to produce negative developments on the Slovenian stage and - please! The other is about the subject that we are talking about today. See, years ago in these engineering circles, we discussed once before, and it was said, we Slovenians are condemned to success and development within the European Union. And that actually shows up today. Because of its developmental orientation, its innovative creativity and the propriety of Slovenian people, the train is actually moving forward. And in the last time we have a government that can make the right moves, this is also reflected in excellent macroeconomic indicators. Such a team and such a direction of development of Slovenia belongs and is also an excellent candidate for the minister for this department, for development, Dr. Žiga Turk. I was appalled when I heard from one of the parliamentary groups, because now there are more of these than customers when someone said they were political analphabets. You've always said that candidates, all the ministers called by the government, are too politically recognized. But from today's words here and there, I understand that you actually want Mr President of the Government to propose a professional analphabet, because that would suit you, because you obviously do not want Slovenia to develop. The President of the Government proposed a man, an expert with extraordinary references. I must say, I was very proud of watching some show when they introduced him to what he had done. And man comes from the real world. He has experienced development on his own skin, based on his own experience. And to tell a man like that he's an alphabet, I find that offensive. And I'm also proud that the candidate for Minister at Hearing said that his ministry would be a developmental conscience. That says so boldly, it means that it is aware of the full responsibility and the view in advance, the coordination of all of this, and I must say, we need such ministers. And I don't know what you're reading today. I just happened to meet the current candidate a few months ago for the first time at a reception. We had a lot of debate at the time, and I must say, I was impressed. I was sure that the environment was such that it came from the logos of the former coalition and I said, "Well, they also had great people in their ranks, but they didn't give them any further, they didn't allow them to take over the resources." And now I see that such people are given opportunities in the interest of the development of Slovenia. And I also agree with what Mr. Squeakle said will be the pierre of the government. There will be advertising for the government, of course there will be advertising for the government, such people with good references, unburdened with mortgages of the past, are pear governments. I am sure that this minister will be significantly different from some past minister who is now a dynamite in the Slovenian political space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u47	Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u48	First of all, if Secretary-General Lovro Loncar had this right, he has this right, otherwise interpreting the protocol rules as you began to interpret them in this mandate, then Mr Žiga Turk would have sat here with us and answered, just as some ministers had sat in this Chamber three years ago. This is the matter of Mr Lovr Lončar, Secretary-General, of how he interprets protocol rules, because it is set in there. That's the first one. Of course you don't want that, so Mr. Turk isn't here either. I said I wouldn't talk about Mr. Turk. I'll talk about reform. It's nothing since the reforms. I will talk about what the President of the Government said today when he presents himself with the idea that he will take care of the implementation of the Resolution on National Development Projects. Mr President of the Government, there is not even a euro for the implementation of the Resolution on National Development Projects in the Development Programmes Plan, which is a document under the Public Finances Act, in which the resolution is recorded by 2011, from 2007 to 2011. Mr Finance Minister replied: "After we have given some money for railways in 2007 and 2008 we will reduce investment for railways in the state budget by EUR 100 million in 2009. The written answer we received at the National Assembly. And to talk about the resolution, about the implementation of the resolution on national development projects without having the right powers as a minister to draw up a development programme plan, you cannot. It is therefore logical for the Minister to say that, at the end of his term of office, his first task will be to define the competence of the development service. Good morning, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u49	Mr. Prime Minister, would you like a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much for saying again within this point and first of all an apology for not being able to follow it directly from here. Tomorrow we are going to an extremely important European Council. A lot of coordination and preparation is necessary, and I apologize for this in advance, because it was not possible to predict in advance that the two appointments would be scheduled for discussion by eight p.m., so that in the meantime there are other urgent obligations, but they have informed me in detail of the issues raised here and I will answer some questions. However, I would not comment on all this because there were also many debates completely beyond the topic on the agenda. At the outset, I would like to thank you for the high level of support that the candidate received in the debate, as was previously the case with the working body. I think it's a good journey for the hard work that awaits him in this place, which is important, which is not artificially created. It would be artificial to propose such a candidate three years ago, because there was not a strategy for the development of Slovenia, nor a framework for economic reforms, nor a resolution on national development projects. It is said that fundamental strategic decisions were lacking, for which the Government Development Service was later established, which I now propose to Dr. Žigo Turk as Minister without a licence. The question was raised as to what role this government service played when it came to coordinating work between the departments. The tasks of the government services, and this after that is paid by the other, are absolutely no different, are specified in the Law on Government and Government Regulations. This is a horizontal coordination that does not take responsibility for the resources, but, of course, it has this power, which is also given by this position, a special position that government services have to coordinate things that are not only in the domain of a single source. And when it comes to development, it is quite clear that it is such a domain. Some things that are still unresolved will be briefly addressed in the new Development Planning Regulation, which is ready and will be adopted in the Government in a short time. This will address some of the dilemmas that have existed so far for decades and a half with regard to development planning. There were also some questions as to whether reforms were or were not. It is a well-known establishment, which happened after the first attempt of the whole reform, of all 70 measures, to reduce to a uniform tax rate, and then, when a single tax rate was not proposed, it began to be said that since the measure was slightly different, there was no reform. Those who have criticised the single tax rate most regretting that the Government does not propose to do so and have declared it a burial of reforms. This is, of course, far from the truth. At the outset, we have stated that the objectives set by the Government in both the coalition treaty and in these development documents are a priority, and there are more ways to achieve these objectives. We will choose those where the greatest consensus is possible and which can also be voted on. There's a lot of ideas, there's probably a lot of good suggestions that don't help if there's not a majority in the decision-making bodies. In this regard, I would not repeat the answers to the scholastic impressions, because with these findings, their authors are dementing themselves. If they just read what they said two years ago, and what they're saying right now, it's perfectly clear. There is no need to lose words in this regard. What is crucial is that, regardless of whether this or any other government is in Slovenia at this time, Slovenia has also adopted key development documents, including the Lisbon Strategy, when Slovenia became a member of the European Union. This has been known since 2000, when the European Union adopted the Lisbon Strategy, preparations for this have somehow stopped. It wasn't until 2005. At the beginning of this government's mandate, we have also adopted our own document on this, which is the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy or the national programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, which is the strategy for the development of Slovenia. On this basis, changes have begun to be planned. But, as it is said, each Member State of the European Union must, on the basis of the Lisbon Strategy, also develop a national reform agenda each year, as you can tell them, with which the Union as a whole adapts to global competitiveness and improves its starting points in the global competition. Therefore, to say that there is no reform, and to tie it to one measure that has not been adopted, does not constitute a serious debate. On the contrary, Slovenia, comparatively speaking, has been taking very large steps in this adaptation since the European Union and since it adopted the development strategy since 2005. If we compare this with other members of the European Union, this is also recognised in these annual evaluations and, of course, the results show this. If we leave behind black screen experts, tsunamis and look at reality, then we see that Slovenia has never recorded such favourable economic and social results because of these reform steps that it started in 2005. Not only has economic growth increased during this period, but it has strengthened entrepreneurial optimism. During this time we have also significantly reduced the percentage of those living on the threshold of poverty in Slovenia, which means that this economic progress did not go at the expense of the social state. Last year, a major project was completed to amend or reform the tax system. For the first time in the history of this country, taxes have been drastically reduced, mainly at the expense of saving, reducing public consumption and costs, not at the expense of the social state. Even earlier, it was necessary to correct some of the steps taken by the late Government at the end of the previous term and which had had nothing to do with the real reform and what was enshrined in the Lisbon Strategy for a long time. With regard to the questions about the powers of the Minister without a charter, who runs the Government of Development service related to these development documents, let me reiterate that it is a coordinating role, that sometimes it is also a very specific task when it comes to waking up the implementation of the projects contained in the resolution on national development projects. By the way, all these projects in the resolution are, when it comes to financial projections, in line with other development documents, including the budgets already adopted. Some of these projects are already under way. All the funds envisaged to finance these projects under the following European financial perspective have already been partly taken into account, but in part the documents to be adopted in the coming years will be taken into account, so that there is no duplication or illogicality, and the Minister for Development, the Minister without a Charter, who will lead the government's development service, will not have any hard work in coordinating these things because they have been coordinated against them and the Government has not adopted the resolution until these things have actually been harmonised. And at the end of the day, also on my part, the fact that development is not just reform, development is much more. To reduce the development of reforms or the question of development, or the question of the tasks of the Government's development service, only to implement certain reforms or only actions or economic social reforms, is inadequate and does not have any real basis in the legal and other documents defining the competences of this service and which in any other way speak of this development. So, once again at the end of this debate, thank you for the very high support that has been given to the candidate in the debate. This support will have to be justified by real work and I think it will be easy to do so, given the results achieved so far in a relatively long, very successful career.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. President of the Government. Comrade Squeakle, I can't give you a replica because you haven't been called substantively and not nominally. But I'll split the rest of the time. However, procedurally, of course, you have the right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I wanted a replica because, according to the article, I think that Mr President of the Government was talking about my debate, which I think he misunderstood, was misinterpreted. Mr President of the Government has said at least two white lies here. He said there were no preparations for the Lisbon strategy until his government. It is not true that the development strategy in the proposal was adopted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u53	Comrade Squeakle, this is not procedural, so please, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u54	July 2004. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u55	If I have respected the Rules of Procedure, you shall also respect it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u56	I conclude, Mr President. I appreciate that, of course, there is room for a replica, because Mr President of the Government has talked about what I have been talking about and no one else in this Chamber. That's why I think it would be right for you to give me a replica, but I'm going to go to the debate to answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u57	As well as I do you know, during the meeting the Rules of Procedure shall be interpreted by the President. [[...]] That's me, and thank you for shutting down. As has already been said, the time envisaged for the debate has not yet expired, so I ask whether Members wish to apply for an additional debate. At the same time, I also ask the government representatives. I'm asking for an additional application. We have two registered MPs. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In my second debate, in particular, I would like to tell Mr President that, for the first time, it is not true that the Lisbon Strategy began to be considered at the time of his Government. In 2003, 2004 when he was still dreaming that the President of the Government would be involved in some talks with the President of the Republic, and then, on this basis, was launched and adopted in June 2004 - three, four months before the elections - the strategy for the development of Slovenia in the proposal and the adopted year later, the development strategy has not changed significantly since that development strategy. Of course, the problem is that, as the Government has put it, there are no reforms here to implement the development strategy. But they're anti-reforms. First of all, it is a pension anti-reform; it is a reform of the great indebtedness of the municipalities. Mr. Minister of Finance doesn't know how many congregations are in charge. It's a lot of debt to Darss, it's a big debt to the railroad. It is an anti-reform that has not reduced labour costs for the euro, the cost of gross wages has remained the same, but companies themselves have financed a reduction of the tax on paid salaries by increasing the profit tax by EUR 500 million, while reducing the tax on paid salaries by around EUR 200 million. There has been an end to housing benefits, and interest has been taxed. These are all anti-reforms. The anti-reform is that there has not been a withdrawal of the country from the economy, but the Government of Mr Janez Janša Slovenia has taken over, not management. Therefore, of course, the situation, as presented by this government, is prepared for a black scenario. Never in the history of Slovenia has there been a reduction in public consumption by 2% in one year in order to avoid deficits higher than 3%. On 7 December 2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a stability programme, referring to a reduction of public spending in 2009 to 2% on lower social transfers, at the expense of lower pensions, at the expense of so-called lower collective costs. According to the Minister for Finance, public servants who expect wage harmonisation in 2009 will not be able to pay this harmonisation. And when we asked the Government for an explanation of what measures will be taken to reduce public spending by €600 million, we received a response "for measures of about €100 million", and these measures, which say that since we will not chair in 2009, we will have a lower cost of spending, a transport car park, a slightly lower cost with the Schengen border and so on. It is therefore logical for the European Commission to say that Slovenia has deteriorated its stability in public finances. Instead of the 1% deficit in 2008, this deficit will only be achieved in 2009 if there is a 2% reduction in public spending. The Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should therefore propose amendments to pension legislation, because, of course, the 1955+ years will be much more actively employed than they are now. These measures are nowhere and this is the only way to reverse the black scenario and it is therefore very irresponsible that the Government does not act rationally in 2007 and 2008. We have seen what is happening in settlement with the Church, in settlement with the Puh, in helicopter transport, in government palaces that are built without and with violations of legislation. And of course, such a government does not act rationally. That's why I say, reform is not, there are anti-reforms and the government says, "It's no big deal, because in 2009, someone will work to fix the period 2005-2008." And indeed, this will be the case in the next government, it will be the remediation of the Janševina period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I mentioned earlier that I myself will not object to the election of Dr. Žiga Turk as Minister without a license, responsible for development and so on. I think, as I have already mentioned, that it is right that the person who has decided to do so has the ambition to get an opportunity, although of course I doubt that this opportunity will be able to take advantage of it, but because of the context in which it is set. However, I would just like to say this, but that the closing speech of the President of the Government has strengthened me in those thoughts, in that understanding of the Government's service for development, which I have already mentioned, namely that this is a function that primarily serves the legitimacy of the Government, the legitimacy of the Government, the instigation of a greater, we could say, the popularity, the change in rhetoric and so on, while the reality of these changes is quite different. I think that if he wants to do something, he needs executive powers and powers, and he doesn't have them. And in the structure of this administration, this was a major problem for the former Minister, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State and will also be for the future Minister. The regulation cannot give the Government's Law Service the functions that the Ministry has, say, proposing laws - a very important matter, and other things. I would look at how we can interpret these last two years, three years after joining the European Union. Of course, Mr President of the Government, you are certainly not the first Prime Minister of the Government to boast of his achievements, everyone has done so. But surely you are the Prime Minister of the Government who boasts about things that you would hardly say are the result of some conscious government policy. Let us be modest and say: The European Union is indeed an opportunity for Slovenia. For such a small economy, which is as regulated as it is for a country as normal, it is actually this 380 or I do not know how many millionths market, its opportunity and ability to absorb, people's knowledge, goods. Let's see how the network of economic activities is involved at this basic level of small businesses, not just large matters. And of course, for Slovenia, this is really an opportunity, and I think it can take advantage of it. I would say that the government, yours or any other, best to do if you leave it alone as much as possible, if you're dealing with such matters as little as possible, and I'm afraid you're dealing with some even too much. In short, the sun rises over this land is a natural fact, not a credit to this government, and even if the clouds are sometimes, it is not a merit of opposition. Let us be modest, not boasting too much about things that we can be happy to be like, and will be for some time. I believe that government policy would be significantly better if this period of "fat cows", as we call it, would be used to do what economists call an anti-cyclical policy, if we were to save more, feed more, raise more money and resources on the side, so that we can encourage development when it is possible, because the challenges and risks are great, and that is it. I have a different view of reforms myself. I think that reform philosophy is wrong back there, although some of the measures are in reform, I would say, about a third of them are fine. And I think that this way of approach is actually not good when it comes to campaigning for reforms and it comes out of it. I would ask myself if we have a system capable of self-adapting and self-renewable. This is a question of the dynamics of Slovenian society, not of reform packages. I would just say that I hope that the new minister will also give others the opportunity to discuss this, perhaps even in a politically unburdened way, perhaps sometimes even outside the box, I would say who is finally right because no one can know it. Of course I wish him luck from that point of view. However, I would like to say that there is also a need for a certain degree of modesty in the assessments of what is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you, you. All the debaters who wanted to do so spoke, and I am also concluding the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Before we move on to the 16th item of the agenda, i.e. to the proposal for a candidate for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I allocate 10 minutes of rest. I hope until then that all Members and Members of Parliament who are in the vicinity will meet in the sitting room, so we will continue the meeting at 1:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u62	Dear Members. We're going to continue at 16. Agenda item - Candidate's proposal, namely the proposal for a candidate for the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food. I'd like to inform you that we have 4 hours and 5 minutes scheduled for this point. On 7 February this year, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed that he appoint Mr Iztok Jarc as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I give the floor to the President of the Government to Mr Janez Janša for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u63	Have a nice hello again. Thank you for your word. As has been said to the National Assembly, I have proposed to Mr Iztok Jarc as a candidate for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and in your explanation, which you have also received in writing, I have stressed that Mr Jarc has extensive experience in the area for which he is proposed, and of course in this regard, in particular his good knowledge of the common agricultural policy of the European Union and also of Slovenian agriculture in general. Allow me to add some additional justifications to what you have received in writing and to point out some of the more important tasks ahead of the Minister and to which he has responded more broadly to the presentation before his mother's working body. For almost two decades, Mr Jarc has been very specifically involved in projects that were important for the deployment of Slovenia on the map of the European Union, including its integration, economic and political flows, he has been present for, say, major projects in the pre-accession negotiations as a member of the government negotiating group and later as State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where he was also in charge of negotiating with the European Union in the field of agriculture and beyond. Of course, experience in this area will be valuable to the future minister in this mandate, as during the Presidency of the European Union, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be one of the more burdened areas or ministries. At that time, the Ministry must carry out a number of difficult and urgently needed tasks arising from the Government's normative programme and other documents applicable to this area. Among the tasks that the new Minister will have to address immediately after taking office will, of course, be the effective implementation of a rather demanding and comprehensive normative programme of the Government's work under the responsibility of the Ministry. The Ministry has already committed, for this year, to the preparation of 9 laws, in addition to the many sub-legislative acts necessary for normal functioning, and the resulting additional 30 sub-legislative rules, which are within the power of the Government; this is a very demanding provision. In doing so, I also expect the Minister to continue dialogue with all partners in the drafting of this legislation. This dialogue is still important for the success of this resource, as well as in general for the development of agricultural policy. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will have to place greater emphasis on strengthening economic competitiveness, visibility and promotion of the agri-food sector within the framework of the work programme, and in particular within the framework of the rural development programme. The potential for organic food production, income diversification measures and guidance in non-agricultural activities such as tourism, trade and many other forms is underutilised, which will contribute to the recovery or increased vitality of rural areas and, in particular, to the opening up of new jobs. The work of this Ministry is also closely intertwined in some elements with other departments. Topics that are also topical in Europe, such as environmental protection, will be at the forefront, especially in relation to agricultural gas emissions through the use of fertilisers and protection of protected areas, water scarcity and drought measures, and energy and other topics will open up. A few major dilemmas in the work of the Ministry so far have been linked to the work of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development. There were quite a few comments about the slow resolution of applications and complaints by beneficiaries about late payments and so on. Therefore, its important task will be to effectively implement the reform of direct payments. In this context, the functioning of the already mentioned agency is key, where appropriate measures will need to ensure the smooth functioning of the payment system and to find appropriate solutions to deal more effectively with complaints by beneficiaries. It will also be necessary to verify that all the regulations relating to direct payments are harmonised, as well as to address any other technical deficiencies in cooperation with the European Commission. This year has also started a new seven-year period, or a European financial perspective in which Slovenia will be able to obtain almost a billion euros from the European budget for agriculture and rural development. It will also be necessary to adapt the Ministry's activities and adopt the necessary implementing acts, in particular for the implementation of the 2007-2013 rural development programme, for the information and education of farmers, as well as the relevant advisory services. Dear High Council! In the decision to elect Mr Iztok Jarc as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in addition to his professional skills and work experience and the results of his work, the fact that he will be able to take an active role in the shortest possible time without a long-term introduction, which is particularly important for the smooth functioning of the Ministry until the end of this mandate, especially given the highly ambitious legislative and regulatory programme which is already in force this year, and partly the following. On the basis of all the above, and on the basis of the unanimous support given to his presentation on the home committee, I am of course convinced that Mr Iztok Jarc, the candidate for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will be successful in his professional experience in the area of the European Union's common agricultural policy, as well as Slovenian agriculture, the functioning of the state administration and diplomacy. That is why, of course, I propose to this High Council that the proposal should support and appoint Mr Jarc as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you, too. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for Minister has presented himself to the home working body and I am therefore asking the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to submit a report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Government, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Mr Iztok Jarc, who was proposed as Minister for Agriculture and Food, presented himself to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and answered questions raised by its members. In his opening presentation, the proposed candidate presented his work, after a substantive presentation, his views on the future management of the agricultural resource and the key tasks that will be based on the legislative, budgetary, programme and political orientations of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, and the budgetary framework represent the adopted budgets for 2007 and 2008. The basic guidance in its work will be to ensure the effective and legitimate performance of the tasks under the responsibility of the Ministry and the bodies in its composition. Within the framework of the rural development programme and other programmes, emphasis should be given to measures to strengthen the economic and competitive capacity of the sector, to encourage activities to respond to certain other policies such as environmental protection, renewable energy and global climate change, to the successful implementation of the Slovenian Presidency in the European Union during the first half of the second year. Among other things, he said that he would also strengthen the Ministry's cooperation and dialogue with partner NGOs, government institutions, housing institutions and, in particular, agricultural organisations. As a first task, he highlighted the implementation of tasks in the field of effective implementation of the reform of direct payments. He stressed that the functioning of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, as well as the effective implementation of the work of the Advisory and Agriculture Service, should be effective. The second set of tasks will certainly be the implementation of the objectives of the 2007-2013 rural development programme and the effective implementation of this programme. Other tasks include: nine legislative texts on agriculture, forestry and fisheries are foreseen in the legislative area this year. He also touched on the policy of safe food, and a law on promotion is being drawn up. He went on to talk about the importance of strengthening the competitive capacity of the manufacturing industry. It also touched on policies related to neighbouring agricultural policies and environmental, energy and other policies. The EU Presidency is certainly an important task to be prepared for by the Ministry. He then answered the comments and questions of Members and Members and apparently convinced them by unanimously adopting the decision: the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considers that the presentation of the views and views of Mr Iztok Jarc, the candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. It was presented how very extensive and very important, and also conflict-like, the work of the future minister is likely to be. Therefore, in our DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the Prime Minister has thought carefully before deciding who to propose for this area. We are also convinced that, given the knowledge of the references, of the experience, and also of the interview we have conducted directly with the candidate for minister, we can provide support for his election. The debate that was under way was, of course, necessarily comparable, by identifying what we should promise with regard to the ministry's work in the past, by identifying what we should promise ourselves with regard to the important role and tasks that await us within the EU, but also because our country is not a typical agricultural country, what lies ahead in the longer term in this area, where we should be guided in the longer term. We have assessed in the DeSUS Group that this comparative thinking in all respects has given rise to the conclusion that the proposed candidate is a step towards better, that he has sufficient experience, knowledge, will for change and for the continuation of what has been properly set up so far. We will also support the candidate for Minister because we felt that, when he presented himself, he was not overrepresented, he was not presented as just a minister for agriculture. If that were the case, then this would certainly seem a little too narrow to us, because the importance of agriculture in Slovenia is certainly significantly greater, or it is significantly larger than we could conclude for those 2% which agriculture contributes to our gross social product. In particular, we think that this area is directly related to the problems and tasks that we have as a necessity to perform in the field of environmental intervention, or that it is a matter of negative impacts that, as we know, agriculture has on either water or on the effects of watercourses, or on the interventions that we have on fertile land, etc. We could still list it. In short, it is therefore very important that this role must be played by the Ministry and the Ministry as well as by those who are aware that agriculture is within the premises. Equally important is the assurance we have seen from the candidate's words that it will not only be an agricultural minister, but that it also feels like a minister in charge of development. He showed ambitions on how to expand the issue from only agricultural production to other sectors, which have already been mentioned today and which are also in the title of this ministry, because it is not just agriculture, it is also forestry, it is trade, it is industrial processing, it is food processing, it is for healthy life, etc. In short, in such a belief that he will try to understand this whole role of the agricultural ministry, we invite him to support the DeSUS Group. Mr Iztok Jarc, who will be the leader, we believe, is a conflict resort. This is what we will see when we adopt the many laws that have been listed today, and in our Group of Members here we will defend some of the interests that we feel we need to defend. It is also conflicted because we have a demand for development on one side and because on the other side we have a request for protection. They have never been so directly identified that they could make an equation between these two important needs or interests. Conflict can also be seen by the fact that in the nature of our efforts, which come from all documents, requires greater competitiveness, and here we do not have any specific comparative advantages in the field of agriculture and, on the other hand, with regard to protection measures that are a lot - and a lot of such thoughts - even too "tutoric" in this sector. Free trade, competitiveness and national protection of individual sources are, of course, not completely non-conflict. We also do not have some special opportunities for very large mass production, more so that we need to develop boutique, high price production, what we usually call organic production, integrated and organic production. We are afraid that there may also be a conflict situation with regard to the treatment of forests and ownership in different areas of both land and forest plots, which may also show that there is no way that we can succeed Members who advocate the need to adopt a new mountain law by this law, because of our opposition, of course, to restrict access to forests. We will certainly oppose this in the future, and we believe it is right to allow free access to all, except of course when this access to forests has been harmful to anyone. We will be careful when it comes to the need for technological achievements, the use of different means, and also how science and technology should deal with genetically modified organisms. We do not simply advocate high productivity in agriculture; we think that some other values and interests are equally important. The Minister's candidate has provided some assurance that agriculture will understand as an integrated activity to advocate dialogue, partnerships, to think about social problems in this area, which, of course, are very large in terms of transitions from one to the other, from the younger to the older generation, in terms of strong fragmentation and low efficiency, low productivity, and a whole range of other things are still saying how carefully we need to act in this area. He ensured that agriculture would be complimented by accelerating the development of complementary and tourism activities, that it would be an important player in the field of ensuring slightly greater energy independence and that it would be able to listen to all the problems of environmental risk management, climate, social and other situations. In the DeSUS Group, we are counting on this integrated approach, on the fact that the Minister will not only be a "financial tenant" when it is necessary to redistribute the funds that we ourselves are going to raise or receive from the European Union, but that, like the minister we have already spoken about today or the candidate we have already spoken about today, he will try to be as much a development-oriented minister as possible. So, Iztok Jarc will receive the support of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Posedel will give the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! Let me begin by saying that we decided in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that today we will support Mr Iztok Jarc as the new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the vote. With all due respect for the proposed candidate and his expertise and his experience, I must also acknowledge that today we would support any candidate proposed by Mr President of the Government. We would do this for a simple reason because the situation in the agricultural ministry and agriculture in general is so alarming and critical that it is absolutely necessary at least that we have a minister with full powers and not only an ex-Minister leaving with limited powers. However, as we say, we stress that in our Group, we are evaluating the proposed candidate, Mr Iztok Jarc, as a person with a successful career and all the necessary expertise and knowledge, as well as with the necessary knowledge of the agricultural field. All of this was very well demonstrated and proved to us at the time of the negotiations during the pre-accession period, when our negotiators, including Mr Iztok Jarc, were very well negotiated for agriculture. Although it has been several years since then, the proposed candidate has convinced us of his relatively good knowledge of the situation in Slovenian agriculture by presenting us on the home committee. Even more than he knows the current situation, he has even reminded us several times of possible major problems that can occur in the near future and affect our agriculture, for example, possible penalties and financial recovery obligations and so on. At the Minister's presentation, however, the distinguished candidate did not convince us with the answer why he even decided to replace the good job of the ambassador for the job of minister in one of the most difficult and difficult ministries, in a ministry where there are many different interests, where complex issues need to be addressed and where, last but not least, very much money is being turned. And that in a ministry where there are a lot of different problems that haven't been there since today, they haven't been there since yesterday, but they've accumulated and haven't been solved for years. With all the above, new and new binding European directives are also coming. It is not surprising, too, that the majority of members of the ruling parties and also of the opposition have sincerely congratulated the candidate for an agricultural minister for his courageous decision to take up the position offered and to take over this difficult resort. Like every minister, it will probably be a little easier for him in the initial period of appearance, because, just as in his work policy, he will refer the reasons for the problems and the guilt for them to his predecessors. This will work very well for some predecessors, but this will not help him solve the accumulated problems. It will therefore be more important to see how the new minister tackles problems on two fronts: on the European front and on the domestic front. It will be difficult for Europe because we have lost a lot of credit and credibility in recent years, which we have gained from successful negotiators in the pre-accession period. In this situation, however, there is also a period of Slovenian Presidency of the European Union when agricultural issues and problems will certainly be very exposed and difficult to solve. Therefore, there is a great deal of fear between our farmers and agriculture in general that the new agricultural minister would not be too busy dealing with the European problems of agriculture and would use too much energy and spend too much time on the Brussels floor. At home in Slovenia it is facing big, accumulated, pressing problems of our Slovenian farms, our forests and problems of food-processing plants. Therefore, for the new Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jarc, it will be said that the correct dosage will be very important in the time when he wears his polished shoes in Brussels or the rubber shoes in his home yard. At this point, it would also be more important to mention all the current problems of agriculture, which also fill the newspapers daily and which the Prime Minister has also pointed out in his presentation, and these problems make our farmer very angry, and they reflect great problems and great embarrassment in our agricultural ministry. In solving such daily, acute problems, it will also be very important to find and make the right decisions, what agriculture we want in Slovenia and what agriculture we will have in the future in Slovenia. Whether our agriculture, as a normal economic sector, will be left to all the legalities of the market economy and thus to all the dangers it poses, or whether in Slovenia the knowledge that Slovenia needs a agriculture that is consistent with our data and that takes into account all the spatial, ecological, social and other factors. In the search for answers to these important questions and in order to receive the right answers, it will certainly not be enough alone, Mr Minister. A large, professional, strong human resources team will be needed and, above all, greater support and cooperation of the entire Government and, in particular, the President of the Government. These support has certainly been insufficient in the past period, as all previous ministers and also the outgoing minister have pointed out, as well as more inter-departmental coordination and cooperation between different ministries, so that it does not happen in the same way as in the previous period when the distinguished Minister of Agriculture spoke one thing, and the Minister of Economy spoke another about the same problem or the same matter. As we say, Members of our Group of Non-Aligned Members will support Mr Iztok Jarc as Minister of Agriculture and we wish him much success in working for the benefit of Slovenian farmer and Slovenian agriculture. Of course, we will closely monitor every decision he makes and every proposal he makes and his work.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will give her position to the National Community Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. I was pleased to accompany Mr Iztok Jarc's performance as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. He showed a wide range of knowledge and knowledge of the subject, so I hope that better times will come for Slovenian agriculture, among other things, for the post-harvest agriculture. Agricultural ministers lined up, and in Prekmurje it was always worse. The formerly highly agricultural province lost its activities from year to year, first livestock breeding. Prekmurk stables, which were built with grants, are completely empty, both state and private. The type of food growing on the premurk fields is less than any maize or wheat found each year. Although there is room for gardening, even Prekmurje lies on warm water, from year to year only dreams of warm beams. The farmers are alone, the heirs have gone to industrial centers, and the meadows grow shrubs. The vineyards are cut by the owners, because the wines of the best quality cannot be sold. Mr. Jarc, the people of Goriček have remained loyal to a land that is heavy and impetuous, so they deserve attention, help and another opportunity. I will be responsible for your candidacy. I am sure that instead of a bureaucratic move, you will come to the farmers and transfer your rich experience into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you, colleague Pozsonec. My colleague, Franz Sušnik, will give his position to the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u73	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Assembly! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support Mr Iztika Jarc's candidacy for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Mr Janez Janš's proposal by the Prime Minister is good and in line with our expectations. The President of the Government further supplemented this proposal in today's introductory presentation. We are of the opinion that Mr Iztok Jarc, as agricultural minister, will continue to manage this successfully for the development of the rural and Slovenian farmers and Slovenia in such an important area. In 2005, we recorded a trend towards improving the agricultural situation for the first time since 1997. These movements continue in 2006. With increased budgetary support for agriculture and, in particular, stable and well-known conditions for the development of this area, which have been drawn up by the adopted agricultural policy for 2007 and 2014 and the rural development programme, all conditions are met for the continued development of agriculture and rural development to remain one of the government's priorities, which we have finally enshrined in the coalition contract and which agrarian economists have found is also being realized. We are confident that Mr Iztok Jarc's activities will be primarily and continue to focus on increasing the income position of the Slovenian farmer. The candidate for Minister was already appointed Secretary of State in the field of agriculture in 2001. He worked here until he was appointed Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Israel in 2004 and has extensive agricultural experience. This leaves him aware of the European Union's common agricultural policy as a negotiator for agriculture. This and his diplomatic experience are also a guarantee for his successful work during the Presidency of the European Union. Mr Iztok Jarc also successfully presented himself to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly and also received the unimportant, unanimous support for his presentation. His presentation was complex and substantive. He highlighted the key tasks under the adopted budgetary frameworks for 2007 and 2008. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fully support and agree with the guidelines and the emphasis placed by Mr Iztok Jarc in his thorough and substantive presentation. In the presentation, Mr Iztok Jarc specifically highlighted the implementation of current tasks under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and all its bodies. Under the Rural Development Programme, he highlighted all the necessary measures to further strengthen the economic and competitive capacity of agriculture and highlighted in particular the need to take into account and integrate agriculture into the framework of environmental protection policies with threatening climate change and in relation to the use of renewable energy sources. At this point, we would like to place particular emphasis on and support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group the priorities that Mr Iztok Jarc has outlined in preparation for the Presidency and during the Presidency of the European Union, with a focus on both the content and the organisation of the Presidency. It highlighted the continuation and development of the reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013, the reform of the fruit, vegetables and wine sectors, the simplification of the market order, the management of risks in agricultural production, the reckless intervention in the field of forestry, the welfare of animals in the veterinary field, the sensitive and important area of genetically modified organisms, and some other topics. It is very important, however, that Mr Iztok Jarc, as a candidate for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, specifically highlighted the need for a preliminary public debate on the above-mentioned topics and so clearly stressed the desire and need to continue the dialogue and partnership between farmers, trade unions, trade unions, the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the ministries with the bodies in the membership, which are indispensable for the good and efficient management of this area, the areas of agriculture. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will form this dialogue and partnership in the future. We wish at least as high a consensus as was reached in our joint decision on the chosen model of agricultural policy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support Mr Iztok Jarc's candidate because we are convinced that this is a good candidate who will successfully lead the agricultural ministry in the second half of the term of office. The candidates' rich diplomatic experience is also an additional guarantee for the successful management of this resource during our Presidency of the European Union. We are confident that this resource will continue to be successfully managed and thus to improve the agricultural and agri-food situation, which began in 2005 and continued in 2006. However, we are confident that this trend will also be maintained at a time when the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be led by Mr Iztok Jarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you, too. A colleague of mags. Borut Saiovic will give the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We do not oppose the candidate in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. I don't want to say anything bad about the candidate, because I appreciate his courage and decision, but we can say a lot of things that we are rightly worried about in the Slovenian Agriculture Department right now. Of course, the candidate is not to blame for these matters and is not to blame for this situation, but no doubt those who are responsible for the activities and policies of this department are to blame for the situation and have simply acted so late. Today, in the National Assembly, it would almost certainly not be necessary to decide on a candidate for a new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food if, at the time of the appointment of the former Minister for Agriculture, Economy and Food, the President of the Government had also listened to those who were warned that the lady was not the right choice. We opposed the appointment of Mrs Marija Lukačič as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food at the LDS Parliamentary Club, since we were then assessing that she would not be able to implement measures to improve that time not so bad the legacy she inherited in the field of agriculture after the 2004 elections. We have also said that they simply do not guarantee greater progress and the development of its interlocutory and silent promise and its tendency to a bureaucratic approach. It was also particularly pointed out that, at that time, the candidate for a minister did not know how she would personally promote the interests of Slovenian agriculture in Brussels, especially in the light of intensive preparation for the implementation of the new structural policy within the new financial perspective of the European Union and the question whether she intended to participate personally in this lobbying in Brussels with direct contacts as a minister. Unfortunately, our predictions have come true, the Minister has not been able to carry out her tasks competently. It is also a pity that the Prime Minister of the Government has come to this realization only now. Such inability of the Minister is also reflected, of course, in the current state of agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition, which is far from a good, idyllic one, in which we are being persuaded by representatives of the ruling coalition and statistics. It would be interesting to hear what about this good, excellent, idyllic state of affairs in the Ministry, for example, the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, what the workers in the sugar factory in Ormož would say about the employees in the Ljubljana dairy shops, whose uncertain fate is not clear at this time. Or I continue what many people would say to this also from those people in the Slovenian hills, in the countryside, who, with this new financial perspective 2007-2013, have lost more than 73 million funds in the coming years. The smallest, small-scale editors of Slovenian agriculture and rural areas, which of course are not covered by statistics, have also asked them nothing, but they are also invaluable and extremely important after the effects on the development of Slovenian rural areas, the environment, and also for the development of tourism. There is no doubt that the candidate for the new Minister, Mr Jarc, is more competent than his predecessor, and we could say that after two years, he represents a great refreshment and hope for this resort. I hope we're not mistaken for these expectations to be justified. In the LDS, we are very pleased to have the candidate initiative presented to our parliamentary group before the presentation of the home committee. This is certainly a kind, correct political move that indicates its greater openness to its predecessor. The Iztok Jarc, in his presentation at our House of Representatives and also at a meeting of the Home Committee, proved to be a good knower of the European dimension of our agriculture and of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, which we expected from a former member of the former negotiating group on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union and the leaders of its agricultural working group. This is certainly good news, because we all know that the last quarter of this mandate will be marked by the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. However, all those in our country who in one way or another are preparing for this important task have also been relieved of this, and I personally find this to be very important. In any event, the candidate will have to do much or the best in our home in Slovenia, for example, at the Ministry itself, at the agency, in line with this, to improve relations between the ministry and other factors in agriculture, so that he can represent our interests relevant within the European Union and also contribute substantively to solving the problems of the common European agricultural policy. The examples of our country's responses to the reform of the sugar and wine sector, as we have done in the past, should simply not happen. If the candidate has done well in his knowledge of the European dimension of our agriculture and the common agricultural policy, he has shown, in our view, a slightly lower competence in some of the other specific issues of our agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition. At the parliamentary club, we were particularly disappointed by the lack of production of his views on the issue of the use of plant protection products. We are also surprised by its relative coldness towards the processing of organic crops, or the absence of its vision, the development of this increasingly important market niche, where Slovenian agriculture must undoubtedly look for its opportunity. We would also expect a more decisive position on the use of genetically modified crops in Slovenia. While the candidate has ensured that, together with expertise, it will be necessary to determine what the use of genetically modified organisms means for traditional farming, it seems to us that, in view of the greater visibility of Slovenian agricultural products on the market, it would be better to defend more radical positions on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other agricultural plants, but for examples of good practice not to look far away, but to follow the example of our Austrian neighbours in this area in order to do so. The candidate was slightly less sovereign on specific agricultural policy issues and certain financial issues. Thus, for example, it has not been specifically defined to modify certain payments within the Slovenian agricultural environmental programme, which today, at least for us in the LDS Parliamentary Club, may be the greatest story that payments within an agricultural environmental programme based on a multi-annual contract may still be changed by the Ministry during its lifetime. Farmers entering the agricultural environmental programme in 2004 and 2005 will thus receive, for example, significantly lower payments for the conservation of cologne, for farming in water protection areas and, on the other hand, even slightly cynical or ridiculously higher payments for sheep in the central area of bear occurrence. The question whether the reduction of payments for farming in water protection areas, for example in Prekmurje and for integrated agriculture, is therefore doubtless still open. It is gratifying, however, that the candidate is extremely realistic in assessing the functioning of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, where the club has a huge part that has been invested in its creation and development, is still not ideal and is, if we can use the words of the candidate from our presentation, when he said that the situation is so, so. Among other things, he highlighted the risk of large-scale deductions in European funds due to the multiplication of possible detected errors. We are pleased, however, that among its priorities is also the strengthening of the competitive capacity of our manufacturing sector. It seems important to us that the applicant has highlighted environmental protection in the implementation of agricultural activities, the need to increase the production of bioenergy, notably through biomass use, and the need to amend the scheme for co-financing agricultural damage insurance premiums, since the law in force is inconsistent with EU state aid rules. We would also like to highlight his commitment to building a partnership with non-governmental organisations in the field of agriculture. We also need to point out its ignorance of the problem in forestry, where it will obviously need the assistance of competent co-workers, and nothing convincing to ensure the near award of fishing concessions or the unconditional implementation of the applicable wild and hunting law. Mr Iztok Jarc, as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will be limited mainly by the relative shortness of his mandate and burdened by the implementation of the tasks relating to the EU Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia. Nevertheless, in the LDS Club, we expect him to focus on other tasks, and in his relatively short term, he will be able to stop the transformation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food not only into the Ministry of Large Farmers or the Ministry of Transfer of Resources from Slovenian and European taxpayers to Slovenian farmers. However, in order for the new Minister to face the significant problems of the institutional system of Slovenian agriculture and to start implementing the necessary reorganisation, we simply do not expect the reasons and the shortness of the remainder of the mandate. I suppose and I wish Mr Iztok Jarc was a good and able candidate. I hope that it is aware of the fact that it is sitting on a bad tractor, which will be a relatively small, rather weedy field with problems, and I hope that next to the seed it sees the bread from which Slovenians want to cut into the future a solid piece of bread. We do not oppose the proposed candidate, Mr Iztok Jarc, at the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! We have been monitoring the work of the Government in the Social Democrats Group and have repeatedly warned the President of the Government that many departments are not working well and that better human resources solutions will be needed. For we want the Government to work effectively when we have made an important journey from independence to full membership in the European Union. At the end of this mandate, Slovenia will also have an exceptional opportunity to prove itself as a country with which the European Union can also realize its common vision of social, security and the most advanced continents. This will have to be proved both by working in the European Union and by working at home. We note that so far the management of the Ministry has not been appropriate, as it has been subordinated to individuals in the field of agriculture and, above all, far from the application of Slovenia as an important partner of the European Union. This created a very large gap mainly in important structural changes at home, and in the European Union's common agricultural policy, we followed only administrative adaptation as a condition for obtaining financing for agriculture and rural areas, which provided social peace, not progress in Slovenian agriculture. This is why we expect us to start serious business in Slovenia with agricultural policy and rural development. Agricultural policy and rural development have an important impact both on its development and on the image of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we note that the countryside is empty and that we are facing an extraordinary concentration of development projects in already developed centres. Even if we look at the strategic document, the Resolution on national projects for the period 2007-2023, we do not really see the agricultural field in this document. However, in the context of the agricultural problem, we would like to point out in particular the fact that most of the business links have broken down from farmers, agricultural cooperatives, businesses to the food processing industry and food trade. All of this, however, is being used by traders in particular. We also note that despite the high annual budgetary resources we are investing in Slovenian agriculture, the Government does not require retroactive effects, nor does it recognise the achievement of the objectives set in terms of restructuring, the expansion of organic processing and the organisation of the marketing of products. We also note that, despite the unfavourable land and parcel structure of agricultural land and the size structure of agricultural holdings, there is no active policy and the concept of regulating this area. We note that the professional and political organisation of Slovenian agriculture has been fragmented within the framework of the agri-economic chamber composed of mandatory members and the management of the chamber, as we can accompany, is becoming an untouchable monopoly. Due to the membership composition of 177,000 members, 77,000 are registered in the agricultural register and 65,000 are those receiving paid subsidies. This information clearly points to the structure of compulsory membership in the agri-agricultural chamber. Of course, this raises the question of whose interest in such a structure should even be exercised by the agricultural chamber. Is it agriculture or is it a gardening business? On the other hand, we note that the Chamber is financed at 80% from public funds, from the state budget, which means that the harmony between the Ministry and the agri-agricultural chamber is maintained, not an open and sharp dialogue that would help resolve these serious problems in the agricultural sector. At the same time, we estimate that the candidate proposed by the President of the Government for the appointment of the National Assembly will be able to act as a diplomat in Brussels, but there remains a very large question whether he will be able to form a team at home capable of connecting not even agricultural, food and forestry policies. We would like to stress that the responsibility lies both with the discharge of the Minister and with the quality of the new proposal, particularly with the President of the Government. Therefore, even as an opposition party, we cannot influence its choice. However, we have also responded in this process to the proposal to present the candidate to the parliamentary group, but we would like to report that we do not want to take on the role that the President of the Government and the coalition, who, of course, has to take on the responsibilities of its decisions. Even in the event of the appointment of today's proposal, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, it is the responsibility of the President of the Government and the Coalition to the greatest extent. At the same time, I say that we will not support Members and Members of the Social Democrats for the above-mentioned reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much. My colleague, Alojz Sok, will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u79	Honourable Presidents, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. When I listen to this debate, I see that we are talking about the current candidate, the future minister, how likely we are, because by our rules of procedure he cannot be here, he listens and I welcome him very much. As far as agriculture is concerned, if we solve part of these problems in this mandate, we will do a lot. It should be borne in mind that agriculture is a roofless factory, that it is once drier, secondly too rain, thirdly, a third plague, that it is actually compressed into some conflict of interest on the one hand, food production and supply of the population, and, on the other hand, a protection function, environmental preservation, cultural landscape and all that is involved. In Nova Slovenija we see three key problems of Slovenian agriculture. One of the major problems is the smallness, the structural defect, which was made consciously during the post-World War II period, when Slovenian farmers were decommissioned and thus made incomparable with the size of farmers today in the European Union. Slovenian farmers are on average four times smaller than the average in the European Union. How this competitive governance today, when we are in this globalised world, is not a place here today to discuss this, but I am just pointing to that. The urgent process and the phenomenon of this increase in Slovenian farms is, of course, that smaller farms are failing. If we had 110 000 agricultural entities in 1993, today agricultural subsidies are granted, or that applications there are about 64 000, and we cannot say for all of them that they are actually farmers. This process will continue. Smaller farmers will leave, larger holdings will take over and thus increase their own structure, and there is no way to escape it, it cannot be prevented, but we can, of course, criticise it. I say this because there have been many criticisms in the media about the work of the current outgoing minister that allowed the abolition of smaller agricultural operators. But that's, you don't want to, that's just the way it goes. However, I must say that in these years, despite this fact, some 20,000 farmers have somehow increased comparatively as regards the size of their holdings, and today they are comparable to their colleagues in neighbouring Austria. The second issue, which deals with Slovenian agriculture, is the high average age of Slovenian farmers. I think this thing grows every year. He's 56 years old right now. At the age of 56, some would like to retire, while Slovenian farmers are on average that old. How can they grow to be part of their colleagues within the European Union? Here I must point out, and I also think that the new Minister will continue this path, that the funds provided by the European Union for structural changes in agriculture will be directed in this way to help young farmers take over farms, almost 500 in this two-year mandate - and that, on the other hand, it will also promote the retirement of farmers by age. One of the benefits of this government coalition is that, by correcting tax legislation, it exempts old-age pensions from taxation as other incomes, and today these pensions are taxed in the same way as the pensions are taxed. But in order to do that, it took us quite some time to correct this mistake of the former government or, if you will, the former government coalition. Of course, a number of other developments have been made in this area, as has been the case with the taxation of all those with less than €200 of cadastral income. A few 10,000 have been reduced by the number of those burdened through the cadastral income, as well as the reduced unnecessary bureaucracy in this area. And then there's the third one. The structural problem of Slovenian agriculture, which may be the biggest in all of this, is an extremely poor education structure on Slovenian farms. Less than 5%, or about 5% of Slovenian farmers, have a formal education that is supposed to be required for some successful farm work today. Those of us who have grown up on farms know how universal farming is, what a farmer has to do. But today, more than all that, more than working on the farm itself, it has to master economic legitimacy, it has to master all these fast-changing directives, our legislation and all that. How can someone who does not have a proper education find this? Otherwise, we have given him a certain agricultural service, which is very well supported by the country financially, but of course this is not the case as if this agricultural activity operator possessed such an education on his own. I hope that the future minister will continue what Minister Lukačič has already planned, and this is that in the next two years around 5,000 Slovenian farmers will be provided with funds, go through the supplementary education programme and will be educated to work in the business field, to work with the computer, so that all these major changes can also be monitored. So that's three big problems. The Minister will not save them himself, but there is a need for greater government cooperation and, I would say, in a sense also a broader consensus in the Slovenian society, a consensus that the farmer will see as an urgent co-founder of the country, but not as today can still be heard and in some way felt through the media, that the farmer is still represented as a state enemy, which must be isolated, to eliminate what we have experienced in this area for 50 years. Unfortunately, I must say that this is still present. However, in all these years, not only during this government coalition, but also before, Slovenia has decided to take over and must have decided to take over the common agricultural policy. Today, most agricultural measures are being implemented, planned and planned at European Union level. In addition to Malta, Slovenia is the only country that has decided that subsidies will be comparable or that they will be as high as within the European Union. This year these subsidies are also actually equivalent to 40% of this money being provided by the budget from Brussels, while 60% of this money is provided by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This should be said and it should be known that Slovenian taxpayers are already making substantial contributions to the maintenance of Slovenian agriculture. And that's right. Without these resources, the image in this area would probably be even more plausible. During this term of office for two years, we have dealt with one of the major problems, which is the systemic resolution of aid following natural disasters. I have already said in the introduction that natural disasters actually plague our agriculture every year. Every year, we then passed some intervention laws, and we have recently passed laws for a longer period. Now, I think the final solution is that the budget provides the means to subsidise insurance and that this system will still need to be upgraded and thus all agricultural products that can only be protected by animals through this system. The work of the Agency has already been mentioned today. When we took over this mandate, there were several thousand outstanding complaints from the Agricultural Markets Agency on agricultural subsidies and other payments. At this point, this number is minimal, it's reduced. All praise goes to the Ministry for these two years of work so that this problem has actually been dealt with, and also through financial means, because if you don't have the money, then you can't solve it properly. In Novi Slovenije we are pleased that the situation in the Fund of Agricultural Lands has also settled, where the Court of Auditors has found this, in fact, could be called an alarming situation. These cases have now been saved and the Fund has also begun to transfer the surplus of funds over its operations to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but this is not definitive. In accordance with the amended legislation, this Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund will need to be corrected in this direction in order to make the Fund more operational and to implement what it was also set up for. At this point or during these two years, and I hope that it will continue as it will, the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has no longer appeared in the media as the main carrier and cause of various affairs. All of you remember the affair with chloramphenicol, which has caused the Slovenian dairy processing industry enormous damage to Slovenian agriculture. And so it is because they are set there to work according to professional standards, not that the cameras are focused on what they have discovered and what is supposed to be wrong, because in the end nothing has been proved. In these two years we have simplified a number of legislation, so let's say veterinary legislation, the Wine Act, also the Plant Protection Products Act is simplified, does not aggravate the situation in this area, although the matter in this area is not ideal and is far from ideal, the Animal Protection Act and so on not to mention. What will we have to do in the future? There's a lot of work to be done for the new minister. In particular, it will be necessary to continue in the field of a separate parcel structure by amending the Agricultural Lands Act. This law is already in preparation or is already ready, and I think that the new Minister will be able to send it quickly to the National Assembly, but it will represent a great contribution to this National Assembly, because there will be a lot of need for reform in this law if we want to ensure that what Slovenian farmers want is what they want, and this is that they will manage Slovenian farmers and forests, not the equity society, as it is at this point in time and where we have actually inherited signed concession contracts for 20 years. You have already mentioned before me that there will also be a need to amend the area of hunting legislation. Unfortunately, I must say that you are here even in the coalition we are not united and that there is still a socialist view of this arrangement that we inherited and built from 45 on, then here is the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, where I hope that some form of consensus has already been reached to reduce the number of mandatory members, and according to our assessment in New Slovenia we will also need to change the system of elections in the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, because the current system is too demanding, too extensive and it is difficult to implement in the way it is written. However, I am convinced that there will be a need for the Ministry to focus on the food and processing industry. Something has already been mentioned today. According to the Cooperatives Act, cooperatives acquired 45 % of the food processing industry. Unfortunately, today this percentage is significantly lower, for in the past many cooperatives have sold this property. You mentioned a sugar factory in Ormozh. This is a truly sad story in this area, which, at this point, is virtually unchangeable due to the changing market conditions within the European Union. It cannot be changed, however, because those who organised the production of the sugar beet did not decide to continue at a reduced price by this production. Since we have experienced this episode, of course it would be pointless to continue with this and to take under the auspices of foreign capital any Ljubljana dairy or any similar food processing establishments. The Ministry's great task over the next two years, and it will continue to be to implement the rural development programme. We have also heard today from the President of the Government what resources are being earmarked by the European Union for this rural development programme. Of course, as much as the European Union gives to this country, it is over €1 billion, Slovenia can add so much. If the Slovenian budget manages this, then all these dilemmas are too small for one programme, for another, for the third time, to be too early and will be made available with this money in the area of restructuring agricultural production, in the field of investment in the countryside itself, such as tourism, processing plants and renewable energy production plants, etc., to do a lot of things. In most cases, you mentioned that the future Minister knows more about the European Union's actions. I think so, too, but the main focus of solving agricultural problems and the impact is not within the European Union because Slovenia has only four votes out of 369. The main problems will, of course, have to be solved here at home in the Republic of Slovenia and here all eyes will be exposed to its work. As far as the European Union is concerned already after 2013, probably even earlier, and this will also be a debate during the Slovenian Presidency, a debate will begin on how to change the common agricultural policy in the future. Slovenia is here defending, and I also believe that this will continue to be a conservative approach. This means that agriculture continues to be subsidised. A large test stone for the Ministry and for the whole country will certainly be a wine reform, changing the market order in the field of wine production. Europe is facing major wine surpluses here, they have over 3.4 million hectares of wine-growing areas, Slovenia has not half a percent of them, and, of course, the question is how can we protect these absolutely wine-growing areas under changed conditions. The position of the Ministry, our Government and also the National Assembly is that the surfaces, which are absolutely wine-growing, must not shrink. And another task that awaits him, of course, is a permanent lack of money in this area. And that's going to be the main task that's going to make the minister somehow between the crack and the accelerant. On the one hand, the great needs, which, of course, will be repeatedly pointed out by Slovenian farmers, will be organised in a chamber, either in a union or on the other side of the budget limit. Let me say here that only the nitrite directive adopted by the previous Government in 2004 and for which there was insufficient funding under the 2006/07 budget has made a commitment to the state budget for over 25 billion Slovenian tolars. All this, of course, and what is already laid down in the European directives, will have to be covered by the Slovenian Government and this Ministry, including through the Ministry of Finance. In New Slovenia, we want a lot of success in the implementation of all this and we will help them as much as possible on this path. Of course, we have today, the candidate for Minister Jarc has been supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you, too. Emissary colleague, mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, in our Group of Members, Mr Iztok Jarc, the candidate for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will be supported. We also know Mr Jarc after his work from the previous period, when he served as Secretary of State at the Ministry. This work was carried out at a time when Slovenia was preparing, harmonising its legislation for entry, for full membership in the European Union. I must say that, at that time, Mr Jarc, together with his colleagues, did this work well and, of course, on the basis of this, and otherwise very well, he knows agricultural policy, particularly the agricultural policy associated with the European Union, a common European agricultural policy. When Mr Jarc takes over this function, I think that this part, which will be due this year and a half, will mainly be employed in the work concerning the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. I am sure that this work as a minister will be done very well and Slovenia will receive positive reviews here. When we talked to him in our parliamentary group and also on the committee where he successfully presented himself, we drew attention to the issues that need to be addressed at home in terms of the resolution of agricultural policy. At the presentation itself, both on the Committee and on the Group of Members, the candidate made it very clear that a strategy for Slovenian agriculture would have to be developed. We haven't had this document since 1993. We have also pointed out this deficit in our parliamentary group several times, and the candidate for a minister has said that this strategy will be ready as soon as possible. We are confident that we will also be able to discuss this important document in this room. I am sure, and so we are also convinced in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that only the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food cannot solve all the problems of Slovenian agriculture. The speaker was said to be extremely poor in ownership, age and educational structure of Slovenian agriculture, i.e. holders of agricultural holdings. And if we want this structure of Slovenian agriculture, both peculiar and old and educational, to save it, to raise it, it is necessary to obey the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only the agricultural ministry. Slovenian agriculture is somehow embedded in the common agricultural policy, so at home we have only the part that we can save on one side through social and on the other hand through taxes that must be stimulating for Slovenian agriculture. I am sure that the candidate for Minister, future Minister, Mr Iztok Jarc, will be able to solve these things and will be able to find co-workers or use those experts in the ministry as well as the wider part of this mandate. Here I am referring to both universities, both at the Faculty of Agriculture and the Institute of Agriculture, so that it can help with political decisions for the benefit of Slovenian agriculture. There is no doubt that the future minister will also have to face the open issues left by the Minister. At this point, I do not wish to judge the work of the respectable Mrs Marija Lukačič, but in addition to the good things and good things she has done in this half, there are quite a few questions that she is leaving behind. Here is still the issue of resolving complaints, otherwise it has been reduced by something, but people are waiting for the appeal to be resolved. The matter is not simple with the Ministry's obligations, namely budgetary obligations, the payment of subsidies and the payment of so-called nitrate directive. These things will have to be approached by the Minister and also by the Government, including the Minister of Finance. It's kind of an obligation to make this happen this summer. The summer is also approaching contracts or decisions that carry very clearly the dates recorded when the payment will be made, farmers shall not receive payments at that date. Convinced that the Minister, now a candidate for Minister Iztok Jarc, will successfully carry out this important work with regard to the Presidency of Slovenia of the EU and that he will be able to connect expertise and civil organisations in agriculture. We in the Group are confident that this will work, so we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you, too. The last position will be presented by colleague Bogdan Barovic, position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we first assess that all ministries or their content are united in the Ministry of Agriculture. If we say economy, environment and space, traffic, I will not continue to mention. There is a lot of hard work ahead of future agricultural ministers and a man must have the courage to hope, especially because he assumes his duty in the middle of the mandate. He's got a very important job ahead of him. Mr Jarc will have to find a way, if he is to be appointed Minister, to pay farming fees with more difficult working conditions. It faces a very difficult task in the area of obtaining permits first and, of course, the distribution of funds from the European Union under the new seven-year programme 2007-2013. The Wizard will be able to compensate for the loss of funds arising from the coverage of commitments under the 2004-2006 period. The Slovenian National Party shall propose a new organisation of the agri-economic chamber. You probably already know that we want to transform from compulsory membership to optional membership on the basis of a cadastral. We hope and wish that Mr Jarc, as future minister, will take this proposal into account, as did the Minister of Economy in the Chamber of Commerce. Mr Jarc will have to correct the unpleasant structure of Slovenian farms. Mr Jarc will have to reorganise the agricultural cooperatives. He's got a lot of cases ahead of him, complaints he's gonna have to solve. In particular, there are complaints about decisions of the Agency for Agricultural Markets. Of course, he also works most closely in the preparation of legislation to promote the promotion of Slovenian agriculture, agricultural crops. Somewhere else in the Slovenian National Party, I would very much like Mr Jarc to be very fast and very efficient in the design of a national forestry programme, where in the Slovenian National Party we expect this to be prepared quickly, qualitatively and so that Slovenian forests remain ours, all Slovenian forests. Of course, Mr Jarc will deal with, at least in politics, speech is less popular, but very important content such as hunting, fisheries. Of course, it is not a question of rejecting the issue of safe nutrition. We were also pleased that Mr Jarc had offered himself and had visited the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. And also at this presentation, Mr Jarc stressed that he would be committed to solving the problem, which, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, is the most pressing. Let me mention just one thing: timely payment of subsidies, emphasis on organic farming, emphasis on environmental protection in general, on the protection of Slovenian crops and products, on enhancing the competitiveness of Slovenian farmers, on the protection of cultural heritage in rural areas, on better links with the Ministry of Environment and Space. At the same time, he promised that, during the Presidency of Slovenia, the European Union would commit itself to having the biggest outflow in the area of agriculture and forestry and nutrition. Finally, in the Slovenian National Party, we sincerely hope and expect Mr Jarc to see in his experience that he will not sell a Slovenian farmer at the expense of European subsidies, because Slovenians do not want to eat Bavarian beef, drink German milk or buy beautiful apples from which Mediterranean countries are beautiful, and our juicy ones will disappear into oblivion at the expense of subsidies. I hope that Mr Jarc won't allow it. We will not oppose Mr Iztok Jarc's election as Minister of Agriculture in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I invite you to my word, Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today it is obvious and clear how good it was, how can we say that the time was at hand, that Mrs was the former Minister, now formerly Lukačič's resignation for health reasons. I personally wish her well, but unfortunately she also left a very unhealthy situation at the Ministry. In recent days, when we listen to the reactions to the government's subsidy regulation, only the concerned can see what is happening in this area, as one of the most important, is happening. We can read about the biggest budget prank in the area of budgets, as we can read today, but I said kindly, a prank, because even more harsh terms have been used. We read about the poorly prepared action of submission and collection of applications, we read about the wrong calculations for each area and action on such important issues as agricultural subsidies, and we also read and hear the criticisms of those who are most involved in this, about the financial exercise carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. In all this, the question is whether Mr Jarc will be able to remedy anything that has been done and transported in a poor direction in these two years, whether he will be able to change the apparently completely flawed and harmful regulation that came into force yesterday and has already begun to take place, about the subsidies that the former Minister left him as a cowardly egg and he is waiting for him at the beginning of his ministerial trip. I would certainly like to express my own clear and loud disagreement and concern in particular about the reduction of subsidies for organically oriented farming and the means for so-called environmental measures. All of this has been drastically reduced at annual level by about a million euros or percentages over 40%, as some have calculated. And of course that's what I'm worried about. Is that even going to be possible to fix? Where we should put the greatest emphasis in Slovenia, where our future is, where we have the advantage, there are obviously the worst mistakes, even though some of you have said today that what rules this coalition is, but everything is fine. Far, far from it. Slovenia certainly has the only opportunity and also the most appropriate development path in promoting, developing organic food production. It is not necessary to be particularly perceptive, but to listen to the people who come to us, who say when they try our food, our agricultural crops, that food is good with us, that it tastes as they say, which unfortunately we cannot claim for many other agricultural crops from other countries, even those that we can now find along with, I will say, greater liberalisation is found on our trade shelves. Many other environmentally contaminated environments do not have such opportunities. That is why we have also opposed the liberalisation of plant protection products. 'Cause once you're in a jam, there's no retrials. Our land is still healthy to a large extent, and we hope that both sides and sides will contribute their share to the future agricultural minister. I sincerely hope that the Minister will lead this way, that a regulation that is obviously doing great harm to this particular segment of organic food production, because this segment is not economic, I will say, always the most interesting. We have invited people in the past and we have promised them certain things, today things put a regulation on their head, and it is not as in an area such as agriculture, but people are planning for the future. Of course, I hope that it will do everything in support of this direction, towards organic food production and towards the environment or environmental measures in the agricultural field. I hope he still has a chance to make changes so he can fix something, so there won't be an answer tomorrow, that, unfortunately, it's all too late. I will use this hope as a globalist, and I understand that he also knows globalisation trends and problems and traps, and as a global citizen he probably knows that and as a global citizen I will support him today, and I hope he will not disappoint me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Such great support for the candidate for minister has probably not yet been provided in the composition of this National Assembly. And this is my own assessment, because his presentation to the Group of Members was extremely positive, constructive, as a person who knows this area, as a person who has already worked successfully in this area and certainly has experience, knowledge and everything that someone who runs such an important sector as agriculture needs to know. This is, in my opinion, a very good trip to the new minister, who will also receive very broad support from Members and Members, regardless of coalition or opposition, today in the National Assembly. And this is also a good trip for this ministry to be able to take it successfully in the second half of this government, especially in the coming year, when Slovenia will preside over the European Union, where the area of the Ministry of Agriculture will also be important, as it is well aware of the European parquet, perhaps even more than the local one. However, from this very place, I also express my wish not to forget the domestic territory, the domestic problems and problems that we have that have accumulated in some areas, and will be able to solve them successfully for the benefit of Slovenian agriculture and all 20,000 farmers who still, thank God, insist on this difficult work and the mission they carry out. I hope that the problems that have accumulated will also try to solve properly, whether it is the payment of subsidies, whether it is work at the Agricultural Land Fund, at the agency or anywhere else. I think there is still quite a bit of work to be done here and there, because even in the farm fund, everything is not as brilliant as some imagine. There things are happening slowly or not at all, because it is a trip position, a transitional period and things are standing too long and waiting for resolution, for example, land transfer and similar matters. However, the Minister has a hearing, he has knowledge, he was able to learn well at the time he was not in Slovenia when he did not carry out this mission, and this situation is well known to him. I also see that he has been involved and will also be involved with various partners active in the field of agriculture, as such a conversation can be beneficial both for each other and can be the most beneficial for one and the other. In short, I can say all the good things about the candidate to be elected today in the National Assembly. I also believe his words when he said he would pay particular attention to rural development, an area of concern that has been addressed so far, but perhaps too little, because if we want to keep this beautiful Slovenia, then rural development is also one of the fundamental conditions for us to continue processing it, to keep it, and that this Slovenia will be a pearl in the European Union as it is today. I also believe what he himself stressed that he will devote more time to the education of the Slovenian farmer. For today it is not enough just the decency that was once, but above all more knowledge, to work with the computer, to meet the difficult forms; for there is money, not on the field, not on the tractor, there is money. And I hope that with this action, which he has also expressed, he will give support and invite the Slovenian farmer to perhaps be new knowledge and financial support, so that he can be part of the European farmer, under certain conditions, certainly not, but by knowledge, he can and will, at times, be, in his own words, the hoax of which the farmer has switched with the pencil and with the computer. This is today the future of the Slovenian farmer, because one billion euros of money at this time is extremely big money. I hope that the Ministry and Slovenian agriculture will take advantage of it at this time. This also depends on the main and first man in this hot chair, which is called the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I wish him every success, every good wish, and a second part of the work in the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture will do well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting to all present here and also to those accompanying this meeting. Indeed, I agree with those, too, about the important area and segment in our country. And I can say that this area is particularly important through Slovenian farmers, it was, it is, and it will have to do in the future. Therefore, it is important that we give them this recognition in this hall, that is, in the National Assembly. Here I am not just referring to the problem of treated land when we like to see beautiful nature, especially here I am thinking about all quality food in the final form, in semi-manufactured products or in the form of raw materials just for processing. On Sundays, I enjoy watching the agricultural show, and I can’t say that I was also in contact with farmers’ jobs or in this area. And I am glad that in this agricultural show, that farmers who have been very dissatisfied under previous governments now only recognise certain progress or movement. Above all, I also think here in terms of a positive attitude, in terms of the positive attitude of Slovenian society itself towards this profession and the wider scope of this activity. Surely there are many outstanding, unresolved issues, problems and, of course, ideas that will have to be realized once in the future if we want this area to come to some level that we all want together, but of course the most farmers. And how can we resolve these questions, how to close open problems, and how to apply ideas? On the part of the candidate, by Mr Jarc, there was a lot of ambition and it seems he has that will. In particular, I would like to point out that, with all the legislation, both the laws and regulations that are foreseen in this area, it is particularly important that the support services in this area, which are organised into an efficient apparatus, are to provide some effective support both to farmers, both to forestry, to fishermen and to the food processing industry, i.e. to all actors in this area. I have also highlighted the role and problem of organising the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber before. Here again, I would like to mention that the system that was designed in 1999 does not seem appropriate, especially from the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber it is necessary to make an effective institution that will be available and to help those who work with agriculture, forestry and fisheries. So as one of the solutions that my colleague, Mr Sok, mentioned today, also in reshaping or considering who should have been a member, particularly a mandatory member of this Chamber. Even if farmers do not feel at this chamber, they are also shown by their participation in the elections. Less than 12% attend there. So this is another emphasis on how important it is to address this area as well as these institutions. The responsibility of the Ministry or the Minister, including in relation to this Chamber, is also primarily due to the fact that the Chamber has the power to perform certain public tasks and has a type of concession. To mention the fulfilment of the forms for subsidies and errors that have occurred in the past, I hope that this will no longer occur in the future. Here, too, I would like to call on the candidate to sit down when preparing sub-legislative rules, when preparing individual forms, representatives from the ministry, representatives of farmers, those farmers who are actually operating in this segment and agree on what form, for God's sake, is the one that will be appropriate for all, but not that within a few months after the publication of a form, each of these forms will be interpreted in its own form. This may present a major problem for all the competent ones who then resolve complaints. Certainly, as one of the positive things of the past period, it is necessary to mention the resolution of complaints against decisions of the Agency for Agricultural Markets in respect of grant allocations. Of the 8,000 decisions, more than 5800 were resolved last year. Therefore, commendation should also be given to some in the ministry who have done so. I am convinced that more emphasis should also be given to our Slovenian products, especially I think that we can be much more competitive and we will have a greater honour in considering competition in relation to sound noise, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] olive oil, cheese, quality vegetables, as well as oil tails for the production of alternative or alternative energy sources. I wish you good luck. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u90	We continue the debate. My friend Ziherl already has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I certainly intend to support the minister or minister's candidate, because he will sit on a rather hot chair or in the area where he will operate, there will be a lot of work to be done. The work that is expected is not only the specifics of Slovenia, as we know that agricultural issues are also very topical in the EU. There are also problems that drag from year to year and there is no particular will to be solved at European level. Let me mention the British rebate. Perhaps, however, the general picture of European agriculture would be covered by this information that around 40% of the European budget earmarked for subsidies is distributed between 3% of the European population and by production, and only 5% of their products are returned to the European budget. So European agriculture also has a bunch of unfinished tasks. Just like that, a candidate for a minister will run into a field like this in our home. First of all, it's a bad legacy from a distant past. Perhaps some of the bad habits or bad conditions stem even from Yugoslavia, where farmers were limited to a land maximum. If these earth’s maximums were exceeded by any trick, they were immediately puppets, mostly to farmers, there was a lot of mistrust. In Yugoslavia the market was so irregular that in a few years for the same tractor, in one year you could get a tractor for four bulls and two and three years later for 10 to 15 bulls. This situation has somehow been dragged back to today, especially in the extreme fragmentation of agricultural holdings, as the average agricultural economy measures 6.3 hectares, which on a global scale may only correspond to an average large hop. For he sighs, as it appears, to grow also on smaller surfaces. Therefore, it is not surprising - if I talk about numbers - that only 2% of agricultural workers contribute to GDP. Of course, there is no need to ignore or mention the important role of agriculture in preserving the landscape. Perhaps it would also point to the problems of the food processing industry, where the problems are drawn from the common country. In these 15 years, there was no greater will or need for, above all, external pressure to restructure, so it still achieves 3 to 3 and a half times less results than the comparable food processing industry in the European Fifteen. It would certainly be welcome, and I hope, that the Minister will also support some of the enthusiasts who plow the ice in this area, some of them as the Committee on Agriculture could be seen on the ground, when they are essentially investing a lot of energy to preserve and perfect or do what they can. As one of such problems of the food processing industry is certainly the sugar factory in Ormož, which, regardless of how ownership took place on the left and right, sells shares of cooperative owners and so on. I think that the factory is so small that no matter what happened around it, it would fall under the treatment of closure. Sugar production and beet production are much more expensive than processing from sugar cane, so all European sugar processors are more or less in trouble and at least smaller, ormog comparable factories are closing down across Europe. The future minister will have plenty of opportunities to try to fix this situation and bring it to a higher level. The first opportunity may be offered in promoting organic farming, which in recent years has grown shyly from 1.5% to 2%. This food production has a lot of problems, but I think it has a great future. With the application of the Lisbon strategy on agriculture, I think that the situation can also be greatly improved, because education in the nature of farmers is unfortunately very low and with education it is possible for farmers to prepare for better, cheaper and safer productions, especially to one segment that needs to be more and more opened up, namely, the processing of agricultural products on farms and the placing on the market of the place of production under the slogan "directly from field or barn to plate" rather than to a wholesaler. Well, there are also opportunities to look for alternative energy sources, either that they are waste from the food processing industry or a rather futurological idea of biodiesel, as the price is still a little questionable, especially the better use of Slovenian forests, the Slovenian wood mass, and we estimate that about a million cubic metres per year could be used for energy purposes, in particular all waste wood and wood of lower quality. That this opportunity has not yet been sufficiently exploited is also a partial fault in the past, when large companies have received forests for the use of change, for a few euros for a cubit, and have made enormous profits. If this were to be done primarily by hill farmers living there, the situation would be much better. Well, it would be good not only to mention what is ahead of the candidate and what are the opportunities, but also to mention what has already been achieved. I think his predecessor, Madam Minister, is doing well to move a lot of things; this is how I got to work on the Committee on Agriculture. Maybe the only thing I've missed in this very hot area is that it would really take some more determined man's hand, which can also hit a table. And yet we have only adopted and brought some laws under the roof: wine law, animal protection law, plant protection products law, which has raised quite a bit of dust and in relation to which I have seen data that the concentration of plant protection products in groundwater is declining, not so much because of the use of kilograms per hectare, but mainly because of the severely dangerous substances being replaced by those that fall to less dangerous and are more easily absorbed in the environment. The Nitrate Directive has ensured that nitrates fall from 156 to 129 kilograms per hectare and is a trend to fall below 100. The work of this legislation, which I am mentioning, has sometimes also involved coordination with European legislation, but the consequences will certainly be seen in the next five years. Well, it was also very important that the Agriculture Act, where GErk and I have more developed a scheme or entitlement to direct payments. Maybe that's what I'd say in the end. The Lord comes from Israel, where he has been accustomed to a more combat situation and may also transfer this atmosphere to a new job, where it is precisely because of this two-, three-month void and everything that has been listed, which is missing from Europe, which is missing from us, may help him to successfully start his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you, too. There's a MEP with a word. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members of Parliament. Of course, we must talk today, as with Minister Turk or the candidate for Minister Turk as well as with Mr Jarc, about two different issues: the candidate and the government's own policy on agriculture, forestry and nutrition. First of all, I would like to express great resentment over the lies of Minister Bajuk, former Minister, and also the apparently completely carefree operation of the Government, in full, that, after we have provided sufficient resources in the Slovenian budgetary frameworks since 1999, for Slovenian agricultural environmental programmes, because of the wrong planning, because of the government's carefree conduct, we will be in a situation where farmers from Krasa and other provinces will be brought here before the National Assembly. That's unacceptable. This is unacceptable, especially because tomorrow Mr Janez Janša is supposed to go to a European Council where he will, of course, talk about a so-called long-term society, about environmentally sustainable farming and everything else, which is enshrined in the basics of the Lisbon Strategy, after being supplemented by the Goethebor Decisions, which included taking care of nature. That is why I think it is important to talk in particular about Slovenian agricultural policy in the time of the Janša government. This policy has, of course, forgotten the key pillar, which ensures the settlement of the Slovenian countryside and this is rural development. If, of course, someone thinks that all over Slovenia there are the same opportunities, such as in the Savina Valley or in some other valleys, where it is possible to perform in the term "intense, even industrial type of agriculture", this is not possible in large parts of Slovenia. That is why they were designed by a reform initiated by the former Minister - well, we can say Mr Smurfolj, although it was substantively initiated by Mr Secretary of State But, Mr Erjavec, Mr Rednak and other experts in biotechnology - which is why, of course, Slovenia's agricultural policy and the 1999 agricultural reform led Slovenia to advance among not only the then candidates for accession to the European Union, but also the members of the European Union in the development of rural areas with sonar farming. At that time, we added an additional 10, 20, 30 billion to the Slovenian budget for ECO 0 and so on - everything we now call Slovenia's agricultural environmental programme. And now, because someone is calculating that government regulations are being adopted at correspondence meetings, which, if I am not mistaken, the JIH is calling the "stress" of the mandate, programmes that provide 40% less resources are unacceptable. And I won't be surprised if they bring a piece of karst field to the National Assembly. I know these farmers can't come with tractors because they don't use them - and he says they don't use tractors. But this does not mean that the government of Mr Janez Janš would not take this seriously enough. You know, say last September, December, October, when we adopted budgets, yes and no harm to give a tax gift, then tell people who are recipients of funds from the budget to get 40% less money, or that some will have to pay 35.40% more contributions to health care and other bills, or that they will all have to pay more energy bills, is simply a "stress". I use the words of Mr President of the Farmers' Union. And that's what we should be talking about today. I believe that if I now propose a procedural decision that Members and Members would probably reject it, Mr Jarc should come and tell us how he will solve this problem. How will he, as the new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food - without the clear commitment of the President of the Government, provide the missing tens of millions of euros with the 2007 budget rebalancing. And, of course, I'm surprised that he -- but I understand that he was in Israel, and somewhere else -- knew that, or, to say the least, he didn't set the right condition. I appreciate Mr. Jarco. He was one of the important ones who participated closely in these negotiating teams at the time of the creation of Slovenia's first programmes. I have repeatedly said that Slovenian farmers should place a monument to Mr Cyril Smurf in the Trojans. Because he made sure [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Don't be rude, Member. Don't be rude. [[...]] Mr Cyril Smurf has done a great deal for Slovenian agriculture. Now, in the mandate of this Government, with the former Minister, the former minister is being demolished. And the government has done exactly what it should not have done with the last regulation: n the most sensitive points of co-existence with nature closes the possibility of access to co-agricultural farming. Why? To do a third chain of wind power plants in this area - or for what economic reasons are you doing this? If today we hear what the Government will do and what the new Minister will do, no one has answered these questions yet. Minister Bajuk came to the National Assembly, listened a little first to Mr Turk and recovered, and Mr Janša apologized for preparing for tomorrow's European Council, so the Minister has been gone for a long time and you have remained silent. The Committee on Agriculture should meet at an extraordinary meeting at this point, ladies and gentlemen, which is chaired by these committees, and you are the ruling coalition, if you want to solve the problem and provide additional resources through the budget rebalancing. However, on some first sunny coastal day on 13 April 2005 there was a rebalancing for the period 2005 and then at some late evening in Gregorčičeva there was an agreement on the budget for 2007 and 2008. This agreement did not worry the outgoing minister, so the Minister of Finance simply failed to provide enough money and then promise money, but unfortunately the regulations are harsh and say that there will be a 40% reduction in these subsidies. It's about young families, it's about decisions of generations that went from one form of farming to another. Now this matter, which can also mean keeping or leaving the farm on the drum, is, of course, put to great question. And today I will decide whether to support Mr Jarc also depending on what response we will receive from the most responsible, Prime Minister of the Government, on this question - when will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provide the missing funds in the 2007 budget for the 2006 agricultural environmental programmes and provide adequate funds for the years 2007, 2008 and beyond. By the way, these days everyone in Slovenia boasts how we have already established the same relations with other countries. However, in the field of the Slovenian Agricultural Environment Programme, you are reducing the existing level of subsidies in 2007 and 2008. This is not acceptable and I will therefore not support the proposal of the President of the Government for a new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to answer this question. I look forward to the answers to this question, and then after the answers, I will decide what my support will be. Mr. Jarca, as I have already said, I personally appreciate, but apparently another "Jajec who has left..." - I'm sorry. Be assured by the first President of what he should do to make the Preparatory Government work better in the second half of this term. Why am I saying that? Because someone said that Mr President of the Government could not chair the European Union with the Minister in 2008. I'm sorry, but even with farmers, with a little bit in front of the National Assembly, I don't think that's why I think the coalition should find so much power and solve this problem. This problem is much bigger than some other problems that you say are important to the attention of the President of the Government. This problem is, of course, whether Slovenia will be able to preserve the area as defined in Natura 2000 or whether Slovenia will be able to maintain the sonar agriculture as it began, whether it will collapse on this issue and continue to withdraw from the countryside in an irreversible way. I hope that someone will be willing or able to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mitja Slavinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. So the area we are talking about, which the candidate will most likely take over, agriculture on the one hand provides a small share of the social gross product, and on the other hand it is a very, very important area and a very important resource. Finally, it is a very important resource, especially for a specific environment, where a large part of the population is linked to agriculture or even living from agriculture. Agriculture is not only important because of food, which is, by the way, one of the primary human needs, but also because of the environment, also because of the way we produce this food, whether it is, on the one hand, in terms of co-natural food production and, of course, that this food will be healthy and safe. In doing so, we must take into account the specifics of our agriculture, and unfortunately so far the Ministry of Agriculture has not taken this into account, the Ministry has not functioned as it could, and more importantly, the services and agencies have not provided farmers with the standard and the service they need. I want to point out all three areas here. The first is bureaucracy, assistance to farmers in filling out various forms and simply writing these forms in such a way that they are meaningful, easy to meet and also comprehensible. The second area, of course, is the late payment of subsidies and these delays arise mainly because of the poor organisation of agriculture, particularly the Ministry of Agriculture, due mainly to the fact that not all procedures have been reversed in time - the Minister of Finance claims that money has been provided. And I stress that these late subsidies, on the other hand, also their non-payments, do not only mean existential problems for those who deal with agriculture, but also, of course, hinder the introduction of new technologies and development. For at least part of these subsidies, those who are aware of the importance of new technologies and progress are investing in development and more modern agriculture. This is going to make a good life for farmers. And the third, the inevitable thing is that there's a lot of commotions that don't move. For many years they have not moved from a dead point, and to which we have often warned. I wish that the Minister would be able to implement at least one of these three points as soon as possible and will ensure that, of course, the agricultural ministry and the services will provide the services that farmers need and the services that they expect and not least deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The next on the list of applicants is Member Anton Rop. He's not here? Member Franz Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Assembly! Many words were made on the proposal of the President of the Government for the appointment of an agricultural minister. You are reluctant to re-emphasize that someone in every way wants to create some extraordinary, alarming and extraordinary situation in Slovenian agriculture, which was the practice of the previous mandate, which we were all familiar with when agricultural policy was not created by an agricultural minister, but by the head of one of the professional services and someone else, only by the agricultural minister. But the results were well known. Let me just mention the chloramphenicol affair, for which no one has taken responsibility or has been sanctioned until now, and as a result, it has had the greatest negative impact on dairy production or cattle production as our leading agricultural sector. The characteristic of the period of management of the Ministry of Agriculture by Minister Marija Lukačič is that there were no such exceptional and similar situations, and I think that is what our agriculture deserves most; this is a peaceful and well-known farming environment. I will be Mr Jarc's candidacy or I will support Mr Jarc's. I think he is a candidate who can successfully continue to run the agricultural ministry for the remainder of the term of office. But he doesn't have a bad basis for work. I am sure of this and it must be said that, at the moment, in Slovenia, an adopted and well-known agricultural policy for the period 2007-2013 is adopted, that we have an adopted rural development programme for this period and that this lays the groundwork for the implementation of the agricultural policy, that the foundations for the implementation of the agricultural policy are laid. In response to all those who today vehemently list who loses everything in direct payments or in the implementation of agricultural policy in 2007, it is simply the fact that budget support or direct payments in 2007 are at the level of the Member States of the European Union or 5% higher than they were in 2006. However, these direct payments or budgetary support and favourable agricultural movements in 2005 and 2006 have resulted in the fact that agriculture is in a safe and secure position in the last 10 years. This is a fact that neither agricultural experts, economists nor those experts who have been cited as authors of agricultural policy are denying. However, one simple fact must also be stated clearly and loudly. During the period in which the decision to adopt a form of implementation of the common agricultural policy for the period 2007-2013 was prepared, those who today appear as critics were simply required in the coordination process as partners, I stress the demand for a real and significant shift from a clean regional scheme. We have thus come to a compromise, I think, that we could tell the Minister of Agriculture that she has over-indulgted partners, that she has over-indulgted the union, that she has over-indulgenced the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, and that she has not been very firm in applying that fundamental principle of the European Union's common agricultural policy, which is a shift from production-related payments to surface payments that are more environmentally oriented. We have thus come up with a compromise that also has a so-called historical component, which, as a result, carries out a complicated system for the implementation of agricultural policy in the coming period. At the time, both the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and the Trade Union pointed out the traps that such adopted agricultural policy brings with it, we also pointed out that the road is not the right way, that it is not a simplification which is the fundamental objective of the European common agricultural policy, but that we continue to implement some form of payment scheme, which is necessarily complicated and related to unnecessary administration and so on. Once again, however, the Minister's firm determination to adopt an agricultural policy, which will lead to this compromise, in accordance with and with the will of the partners. I think there is probably any other area that Minister Iztok Jarc will have to pay him - I believe he will be elected as Minister - to pay more attention. One such area is the undisputed area of management with Slovenian forests. Here the heritage is extremely poor, the 20-year concession contract, which is the most vital, which represents the national wealth of Slovenian forests, gives over 260,000 hectares to the management of some quasi-owners of former GGs, who have transformed into working societies with limited responsibilities and who are currently performing uncontrolled sex and in mockery pay to the country a miserable compensation for a cubic of cut wood. Finally, the Court of Auditors found this after the review of the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in its report on 30 May and imposed corrective measures. As part of the 12 corrective measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Fund in response to the Court of Auditors' report, the Minister also announced solutions. One of the solutions proposed is the introduction of the sale of wood on auctions, which would undoubtedly contribute to a better quality improvement, in particular the larger yield of millions of cubics that these concessionaires cut in Slovenian forests, for which the country survives less than four or five euro per cubic, which is unacceptable compared to the fact that the prices of wood as raw materials have risen substantially over the last period and we know that other prices are actually reaching on the market. Here I think that the problem is also constitutional decisions that somehow cement the existing situation and make any changes in this area more difficult. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be necessary and useful to put part of these forests in the management of farmers in restricted areas, because this would significantly improve the economic power of these farms, which would ensure their existence in the long term. One of the issues that the Minister must continue is the provision of comparable operating conditions for both all areas of agriculture and the food processing industry, which his predecessor has successfully launched, Mrs Marija Lukačič. Let me only remind you of the changes in the veterinary law that have passed an ominous veterinary certificate as some sort of non-digestion or unnecessary traffic in animals in internal traffic. Let me remind you that during that period there were no legal acts in force to regulate the processing of meat and milk on the farm. All of this has somehow been forgotten and neglected by our negotiators, I fear that an unconsciously good part of Slovenia's agricultural potential has neglected the possibility of developing complementary activities in these areas. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the work of the EU Minister has not only been so bad since in 2006 we were able to negotiate exceptions in this area, in the area of meat and milk processing, even in the area of slaughter in agriculture and in the form of the rules adopted in June and November, we have become comparable to neighbouring Austria, which I think is an essential condition for ensuring equal farming conditions for our farms, our entities comparable to those on the other side of Karavank. It is also totally unacceptable that today we are listening to the findings of dairy and dairy producers, that the standards in force in the field of milk production and processing and dairy products in Slovenia are uncomparably stricter than in the neighbouring country, as they are in the areas from which competition comes. The fact that our inspection services in inspection procedures, inspections of domestic products are inappropriately stricter than those of foreign producers found on the shelves of Slovenian trade is a challenge for the Minister to make order in this area if it is necessary to do so, or to call professional services at the Ministry to make comparative checks, whether this claim that there are superstandards in this area is justified and whether it is true that inspection services are inappropriately stricter for Slovenian producers and Slovenian products. This needs to be done immediately, without delay, and I think this is also one of the tasks of the minister coming. Look, there's been a lot of talk today about complaints about the administrative procedure in the area of direct payments. In this context, I would like to point out that farmers are not left to themselves in meeting these required forms, in satisfying this bureaucracy, but that this is what a vast number of employees of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber are doing, that is, agricultural advisers, and it is likely to show that they are looking for a part of the responsibility for many complaints in the quality of the work of these accommodators. Let me also remind you of the experiment when the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber offered farmers a contract to sign with which these promoters would be obliged to discharge any responsibility regarding the correctness of the completed forms. Well, in this context, I think it is also the task of the Minister to prepare amendments to the Agricultural and Economic Chamber Act in terms of regulating the situation, in particular from the point of view of membership. I think it is unacceptable that each owner of land or forest is also automatically a mandatory member and thus a payer of membership. I think it would be wise to consider raising the entry threshold to a limit that would cover those farms that have so much production that they can run for budget support. This means reducing compulsory membership by about 100,000 members. After all, this also indicates a response to recent elections, I think that farmers who will remain members of the Chamber should take this chamber more as their own, those promoters or those professional staff who work at the Chamber and also take a certain measure of responsibility for the work they are doing. I think once again that all the conditions have been created that Mr Iztok Jarc, as agricultural minister, will successfully lead the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the remainder of the mandate, and that he will also successfully resolve these budgetary problems, which are the result, it is necessary to make this clear once again, a fully coherent and unplanned nitrate directive, which is therefore also known in the solvency of the Ministry in 2006 and also in 2007. Let me remind you that more than 40,000 or more than 42 thousand farmers have run or decided to run for these funds and that the response was unexpected and that at the time of this call there were not even far enough funds available to finance these measures, and the financial consequences we have already heard today were severe over 25 billion. I would advise the Minister to try to maintain, in his work, at least the kind of obedience to the farmer, to the countryside, at least about such a limit as the tolerance and feeling for the needs of the Slovenian farmer, as played by the Minister, Mrs Marija Lukačič, because it is only in this way that I think it is possible to create an appropriate agricultural policy, which must be done at home in any way. This agricultural policy must be adapted to our specificities, and this is inherent fragmentation, and we have as much as 85% of the countries declared or recognised as restricted areas. On those areas where rounding is possible, however, I think that the policy outlined by the National Assembly in the resolution on agricultural development should be implemented more consistently, but I think that in 1993, this is an emphasis on the development of family farms, and this need for rounding will also have to be reflected in the announced agricultural land law. The key task of the agricultural ministry in the future, I believe, in that all other matters are more or less agreed on, is how to protect the agricultural land from interference, how to maintain the production capacity of agricultural land and, above all, how to bring the agricultural land into the hands of Slovenian farms, which are trained, who also have knowledge and will to work on such a farm within the so-called family farm, so that this land will not come into the hands of various DDs and working organisations, which is just a step towards bringing this land into the hands of foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u98	My word to Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It has been pointed out by the Slovenian National Party that at least until now the agricultural ministry has been the weakest member in the Government, several times has been clearly and loudly told. I'm looking forward to that exchange myself. However, I would like to remind you of some facts, because I see that we have some agricultural experts today. And when we talk about farming in Crassus, I would like to say that I was alone with a delegation of direct producers, if I may say so to them, farmers have been with the minister twice. Madam Minister has lost her compass in this area, that is true, she has also confessed. Because Crassus is not nearly the same as the rest of Slovenia. Anyone who's ever been to Crassus knows that. As far as subsidies are concerned. Coin growers, we have previously heard experts about this, and livestock breeders are in some way also a guarantee that Crassus will not be increased; this is what the Government has written in its documents, and for this it commits the body of the subsidy not to heal Crassus, in fact, the government must approve what it has written with its decisions, even respect. This has not been the case so far. The decisions which were issued were subsequently repealed. And it is on the basis of these decisions that farmers have taken credit, have made a household debt, and later resign from these contracts that farmers cannot pay their obligations. This money has been spent on enlargement, to modernise their farms, this has happened and this is happening today. And when we talk about the fact that Crassus is really specific and that we have in Crassus, because elsewhere in Slovenia it is not, the parcels are also shared with the walls, of course, the agriculture ministry has enjoyed the fact that it has taken aerial photographs and, on the basis of this, these shadows, also natural pastures for the shrubs, rejected the percentage subsidies. This is guilt, which is of its own kind. Italy has this specificity resolved by a government regulation which, for the first time, is a guarantee for farmers to receive a long-standing contract in hand and to respect the state in this area - as set out in the decisions - is strictly strict. Even more, even those who do not want to be exemplary in caring for their property receive notice that this is permitted to someone else who is willing to take care of it. It is not about desolating, but it is actually possible for all others who do not make sure that the pastures are grazed, that the government orders it by some government regulation to someone else who is willing to do so. We have a great deal of rigour in this area, and I strongly hope that the current minister, because I believe that he will also be confirmed today, will accept what has been agreed at the Ministry of Agriculture, that this government regulation will simply be copied - the Italian government regulation, I am talking about it. And that it will be implemented into our legislation. If we've done this with a whole bunch of laws we've brought in from Brussels, we'll also do it with a piece of paper that's good for our Crassus. The Italian part of Crassus is exactly the same as the Slovenian part and we should essentially copy the neighbours here. This will also help with the fire threat. Last year we had a big fire on Crassus, and three countries helped put it out! And yet, once again, when we come to this, because we know that if we have modelly grazed these pastures and fines, as well as livestock farming, we also know that, in fact, the state here should pay the subsidies strictly but not them. We are back on this issue, and if we take into account essentially only this amount that we had to deduct in order to limit this fire in Crassus, then we will cover twice the amount of subsidies. You know, it's so sweet. See how many fires there were in Primorska. And there's something else I'd like to point out, the acre yield. Speaking of which, you're back on the wrong side of Primorska. Primorska is more of a digger than other parts of Slovenia, as far as this is concerned. And if we're just comparing a basket, one's fair on the Primorsky part. While they can eat three lunches elsewhere, the subsidy is the same, you know, the same. A hectare yield is a hectare yield. And nobody said anything about that today. Nobody talks about the fact that Slovenia is not the same everywhere because of its climate and also geographical diversity. It's basically unfair of you to talk about just what's nice to hear - subsidies. See what happened to the wine law: we allowed double taxation, we allowed double taxation! The government later acknowledged for itself that this was indeed distasteful and unseemly, and it also proposed another law, which, of course, was then adopted here, and the injustice was somehow corrected. Yet we do wrong in other areas - olive oil growers. Why don't we tax the pumpkin oil then? Beekeepers. But let him who wants to work and to support his family by hard work on earth be untaxed. Why should we charge him extra? These injustices have been committed under the tactics of this Ministry. And there's something else I'd like to point out. I want him to pay a little more attention to what Europe has to offer. What can Europe offer? We haven't exhausted all the resources, not yet. Maybe we haven't pumped a few percent of what we could. I don't know exactly, I'm going to look at it, and I'm going to point out to the Minister where he made the mistakes, because the mistakes are already very big. I believe that we are far, far, far too late to be able to fit into this great cake, which I can say that we are devoting to the greatest extent in Europe, that is agriculture. Europe gives the most money for this and we have made the least use of it. That's a big minus for our government. And when we talk about the Slovenian farmer, hand to heart, no one has offered a solution. The Slovenian farmer, almost no one in Slovenia, has a European regulation to guarantee that he can survive his own family at that measured hectare minimum that Europe provides for this guarantee of survival. Our farm configuration is just the way it is, and apart from Prekmurje, I do not believe that farmers are capable of living anywhere else in Slovenia - and I normally also care that they are technologically equipped - with their own work. And yet there's a recipe, I think we should work on it. Slovenia is in itself so beautiful that in fact the agriculture ministry should also invest grants in a larger amount for the development of rural tourism. This would also reduce subsidies over the years if the farmer were allowed to sell what he came to home to tourists who want to go to Slovenia and want to spend their vacations on our farms, to equip all farms that are now left behind, thus also allowing younger families to survive their descendants by working on the farm, then even after tomorrow, perhaps in this National Assembly they could talk about a smaller need for subsidies. Nobody's talking about it. Everyone sees how much he's got and what's written down to get, then he cancels. That's not right, and I think there's a lot of injustice going on here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that this debate in this second part about today's candidates for ministers' seats is extremely interesting, even a little fun when I listen to discussions and assignments for the future minister. There are so many of them that it is difficult to record all the tasks or expectations that in this good year and a half, as much as is left in this candidate's term, there can be a great deal of disappointment in all of what I have heard. First of all, I must admit that colleague Sok has taken all the tasks so well that his summary could serve this or any other candidate for minister to present the tasks ahead of him. But these tasks, which you or we listed, are not for a period of two years, but for a period of two mandates. The normative part can be done very quickly also improvisations are possible, what is happening to us in the present but also in the previous Government, but the implementation part is then a little more sensitive, problematic and we also have this problem today in Slovenian agriculture in Ljubljana, at the agency, at the institutions, at farmers and let us not pretend that everything is okay. And these tasks will be very difficult for the new minister, who I think will also be confirmed, because there is a lot of money in the back. A lot of money because of the promises made in the previous two years to cover the backlog of current issues that are at stake due to the shares that Slovenia must cover and some, I will allow myself to say, some of us know the problem of N+2, where the Minister on the Committee on Agriculture has promised that things will be resolved this year. And today, we see that money is gone. The guilt that I think is unproductive is important that things be resolved. On the committee, I was among those who also said that the candidate was appropriate, and I will do so today, and my colleagues, who were then representing the LDS Group, did the same thing and I think they presented the same thing here today. The Prime Minister of the Government said he was proposing a candidate with a lot of experience, but he gained this rich experience in the previous governments, which you said were wrong. You also said that this opinion about the situation today was given by the representatives of Erjavec, Rednak and so on, but also by the policies of the former Government, these same people were created. That we have a situation like today is relatively good and I think that these, I also agree that these people, the team Erjavec, Rednak, Booth and so on worked, well, among which was also in the LDS governments or the government of Iztok Jarc. And it's hard to accept any claim that he gained experience where everything was wrong. I think it's hard to come out and tell stories like this is pointless. I am convinced that part of the tasks that fall during this year and next year, Iztok Jarc is unable to carry out unless he has free hands and if his client policy does not interfere with the design of the team that will carry out these tasks. Minister, whoever it is - I am sure that Iztok Jarc will be elected this time - will have many and sufficient tasks on the European floor, and something in Slovenian, when we will preside. All other tasks will have to be taken over by someone else, or he will choke on the daily problems that will arise because agriculture has one feature, that problems are always young and will always have them. The one who imagines that now that we are in power, we will "kiss" everything and solve all the problems, does not know what he is saying, and this will never happen; as other areas are similar. Since the system is changing in different areas, I am talking about the problems of agricultural land, the functioning of the fund, the agency, new conditions, some we are inventing ourselves, others dictate to us, natural disasters and so on. These are stories they can't avoid. And now it's too much to deal with what was before - it's important that you deal with what is today and what will happen tomorrow. And that a team will gather around the new candidate for a minister, who will take these matters in a solid manner, will at least firmly intercede for agriculture by the end of 2008, and resolve some of the burning problems, of course, provided that the Government participates. The Minister of Finance is always in charge, but he must also have the approval of the President of the Government. And if these two work closely with him and understand the problems, then things can move solidly. Subsidies are a completely misunderstood story, because subsidies are not allocated to agriculture, but are channelled across Europe, in the European social system, indirectly through agriculture. In order to offer agriculture cheap raw material prepared by the food-processing industry for the commercial network at home or elsewhere. There may be an endless discussion here, but that's the case. And in order for a large part of the European budget to be allocated through a system, and usually also national budgets, this is the path and, of course, this agricultural sector must then be guided. Prekmurje does not have the most ideal conditions, what was said in the debate for production, because more than half of Prekmurje is hilly, like Primorska. With this difference, half the rainfall and on average every other year is dry and the production situation is extremely poor. It is unfortunate that the Premur economy has a large part of agriculture or in national income is once a higher percentage than it is at national level and this is a problem for the province. In the end, I will wish the candidate well on his way and the Ministry. But once again, I will repeat that I am afraid of what I said on the committee, and the journalists have just concluded that in peaceful Israel it would be better for him than in peaceful Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Interesting debate and I think it is in the best interests of Slovenian agriculture that we are now exchanging the agricultural minister with the minister. There's a whole bunch of open questions, a whole bunch of dilemmas, without question, much more than quality answers. However, if we know the problems to be seen, and we have seen a great deal of them today, then it is highly likely that we will find solutions for them. But if I say so, only with a new tractor does the power of a tractor increase by itself. Today's debate has shown that there are many other things missing in Slovenian agriculture, and above all in this debate I have missed setting clear goals and visions of what kind of agriculture we want in Slovenia and what our objectives are. This is a market-oriented agriculture comparable to Europeans, God forbid, even with the world, for which we have no equal or comparable opportunities in Slovenia. Not much has been said about agriculture, which is a valuable producer of quality, healthy, safe, domestic food, but also agriculture, which cares about the Slovenian environment and the countryside. Two thirds of Slovenia and a little more are covered by forests. There was not much to say about this problem today. Whether the policy of Slovenia will continue to cut, do the lowest work, or we will know about this wood, our natural wealth, to give some added value, instead of ending up on Austrian, Italian or other saws, to take care of the relevant wood processing industry at home in Slovenia. Until then, we will have the policy to promote the Scandinavian pine tree, the Siberian cedar and the African tic, in Slovenian magazines, whether we will finally realize that we have quality, good building material at home in Slovenia, which of course we do not know, because we obviously have the will, knowledge too little, to integrate into our quality homes and apartments. After that, this strategy, which I have said in a global way, I think that the two laws, which have excited a lot of dust this year, are throwing some strange light at this strategy. There is no country in the world that would say that if you increase the consumption of plant protection products, that it is good for agriculture, that it is good for nature and the environment. And then the second dilemma, around genetically altered food, we're sitting ducks around hot porridge. It is not necessary to present the Genetically Modified Food Act in 2008, when the climate may be more favourable after the State elections and the public is less attentive. The fact is that we brought genetically modified food to Slovenia as soon as we signed accession negotiations with Europe. This is basically a sin and a legacy of past stories, but it is up to us to limit this matter, of course, and to place it within those frameworks so that it will not harm us. Genetically modified plants, which are interesting for production and marketing in Slovenia, are too small for Slovenians to destroy and devalue this landscape and these rules, which limit genetically modified food to a maximum, but especially its production, must be adopted as soon as possible so that it is not too late. In this story, no administrative boundaries, no obstacles, no consensus can help us if we talk about a few hundred meters, but we know that the flower dust of the wind can blow 20, 30 kilometers apart at the first hour, so I don't talk about the paths that bees and bumblebees take. These decisions, which will allow a step forward, must be taken by the Slovenians with the new Ministry as soon as possible. Today I can even hear from the debate, and unfortunately I live on farmers, but in the countryside I do not feel everyday, even those people I represent could conclude from this debate that this moment in Slovenia is ruled by golden times for agriculture. If these are golden times and this is our ideal, then I must say this moment to give it up. About the agricultural trade unions, about the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, there has never been as much talk as there is now, and this suggests that we have so many movements, that of course there are problems that need to be solved, especially because these movements are more devoted to the good for the Slovenian countryside than to any ideology and politics, so they need to be listened to and given all the credit and recognition. Then there are those institutions that, of course, we haven't been able to put in order yet. What's going on in the cooperative sectors? It is indeed a sector that protects the interests of Slovenian agriculture if the partners are the first to sell shares, such as the Ormož Sugar Factory. If the partners are the first to sell shares in the Celje meats or if the country and part of the cooperative sector are the first to get rid of their share of the story, which means Slovenian national pride, these are undoubtedly Ljubljana's dairy. Whoever read Finance yesterday saw that Zagreb's Dukat was sold on the market for about five times the price of Ljubljana's dairy. If someone followed that story five years ago, or ten years ago, when they were in agriculture, they would see that the truth was the opposite. Slovenians still have one of the best and healthiest raw materials in milk in this part of Europe, and it is sad that almost most of this milk is already ending in neighbouring markets. We will leave a strategy that can turn us in the right direction after all the milk in Slovenia is picked up by foreigners, then it will be easy to destroy the Slovenian dairy industry and then sell our raw material at substantially higher prices back to us, or we will agree to this theory that we now have, in our Slovenian Alpine milk, we also drink Slovak, Hungarian and other milk. These are the dilemmas and the key strategies that we must follow. Above all, this story about subsidies - I am not referring to them because this moment the story of subsidies has escaped over the edge and farmers is doing damage - farmers receive subsidies so that they do not have any privileges, some superstandard, but simply so that they can be in the hilly world at all, in areas with limited factors, and survive. For from that which is produced in the battle with nature, there is no way to survive without subsidies. If Slovenia wants to be a beautiful, tourist country, then of course it needs cut lawns, decorated, grazed slopes and decorated mountains. As such, of course, they will be interesting to citizens, foreigners, and all those who would like to see Slovenia elsewhere. However, that these people who are currently losing their will over Slovenian agriculture and simply need to be burdened by the paper wars, there is no doubt too much in this and previous mandates, there are complaints at the agency, especially because in many cases we are more papal than the pope or more stringent than Europe. Last week I was on one of the fashionable ski slopes in Austria, Bad Kleinkircheim region, St. Oswald. There in the middle of the ski resorts, under the state-of-the-art gondola, next to the hotel, a five-star farmer's pension, you see a fertilizer plant that would have brought a lot of Slovenian farmers to jail, at least into the judicial or inspection mills, and of course would have taken his subsidies. With us, the issue is not so controversial and in the middle of the fields, and in the middle of the meadows we build real bunkers. I thought these were some new nuclear launches, but they're just garbage dumps. With such an approach, we can never, ever catch up with Europe. I hope that, on the basis of all that he has heard today, Mr President, he will not change his mind. It would be a great shame, because we need new people, we need a new challenge, and especially those who will or will help him within the scope of the possibility, and, of course, we do not need to politically support him. The decision and political support must come from those who bear the greatest part of the responsibility in this story, as it is known who provides the majority in the National Assembly. However, it will be necessary to discuss and decide on this - which is not only a matter of Slovenian agriculture, but only of Slovenian producers, but also of consumers - if we deduct less in the countryside for a kilo of potatoes, kilograms of milk and ten eggs in the package than we do in Ljubljana, in the vicinity of Parliament just one half litre beer, then we know that with these relations something is seriously wrong. Mr. Minister, Mr. Jarc, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you very much. All the applicants got their word. Since we have some time left, we can divide this time according to Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask, so visually, would anyone else like to discuss before I open a formal application? Okay, I can formally open it. Besides, it's not necessary if no one wants to, but still, I'm opening the application. Please. Thank you very much. It's a mistake, Mr. Sušnik, isn't it? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm going to break the schedule too much, and I'm still going to let myself say something else, because I think I've forgotten before. One important area that awaits the new minister is the hunting and wildlife management regime. Here we now have a decision by the Constitutional Court, which will undoubtedly help him to make the necessary legislative changes. However, I think it is necessary to make a firm assessment and reconsider the scope of the State's fisheries. Here we see no reason why we should not trust the management of the hunting zone, in accordance with the concept of law, the living and functioning hunting families there, and thus allow our citizens and citizens to engage in hunting activities in those areas which are now deprived of it. Some areas that have the nature of a national park may be special and justify that they continue to be areas of national fisheries, and most of these areas are certainly not covered by this. Another issue that I think must happen is the early award of concessions and, in this regard, the more responsible attitude of the Ministry, which, together with the Forestry Office, prepares and legalises annual breeding plans and similar plans with these fisheries managers in terms of the execution of the planned disposal. In planning the shooting, however, it is essential to strive for a greater balance between the man living in these areas, which represent the hunting grounds between our farmer and the wild game. Here I think mainly that part of wild game hunting, which in some areas of the Republic of Slovenia causes unreasonablely high and inappropriate damage due mainly to the abnormal stock of this game in certain environments. Here I believe that a more decisive policy of the Ministry of Agriculture is certainly needed in line with the guidelines on co-existence, a shared concern for game. On the other hand, the exercise of the public function of training and the conduct of hunting examinations and examinations for hunters granted by law to the Hunting Union of Slovenia should also be verified. More and more, complaints from hunting families that the hunting union does not exercise this function, that hunters do not have the option, do not have the opportunity to carry out hunting examinations within a reasonable time. As a result, we are faced with fewer and fewer trainees opting for membership in hunting families, and the result is that the age structure of hunters in our hunting families is becoming increasingly unfavourable, even at the border of normal hunting. I am sure that this view is also urgently needed, certainly if I conclude that what I am saying is to consider giving this public authority, the power to carry out, educate and carry out hunting examinations for new hunters and for hunters to someone else. I do not think this can be the original and only jurisdiction of the Hunting Union of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. It is now clear that this will be earlier than the scheduled hour, 20 hours and 28 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. At the same time, I welcome the visitors and visitors who have joined us on the Tribunal during this time. Welcome to the Slovenian Parliament! We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the amount of funds belonging to individual political parties and state budget funds in the year 2007, EPA 1256 /IV. We have 28 minutes to discuss. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for the allocation of funds for co-financing of political parties in 2007. In this regard, the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly for discussion and adoption. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, President of the Committee, to present the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Chairman. This time it will really be more of a word because more or less of everything has been determined. In short, at the 30th meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, we discussed the allocation of funds for co-financing of political parties in 2007. This report and proposal shall be submitted to the National Assembly by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee thus examined the report and the proposal under Articles 112 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in conjunction with Article 23 of the Political Parties Act, which also lays down the procedure and competences of the National Assembly to adopt an appropriate decision on the Government's proposal. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the General Secretariat of the Government said that the Government had prepared the allocation of funds in accordance with the 2007 budget changes, which set the amount of funds for this purpose and also in accordance with the already mentioned Political Parties Act. It also sets out the key for the allocation of funds between individual political parties, given their success in the elections. The members and members of the Committee did not discuss the proposal, but the Committee, on the basis of the material of the Secretary-General of the Government, prepared a proposal for a decision on the level of the funds belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2007, which is also an integral part of the report that you have received from Members and Members of Parliament, and the Committee also proposes to this honourable assembly that it adopt this proposal at its meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much. That was really a word. Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Kovacic on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, others present! That's more of a word than a word. The Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will support the allocation of funds for co-financing of political parties for 2007 as prepared and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The fact is that the Political Parties Act lays down the conditions under which the financial resources from the State budget belong to political parties. For 2007 as well as for previous years, the total budget quotas are calculated on the basis of existing criteria that remain the same. The distribution of this total quota itself is based on electoral results, and this is also the case for individual customers. The proposal that we are considering is therefore nothing new, given the state of the past two years and is based on the current Political Parties Act, so we will also support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And we should go to the debate of Members and Members, but obviously there is no debate. Some of them have checked out, one is missing, so I'm concluding a non-existent debate. The proposal for a decision, in line with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, will be decided again today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the adjournment of the 5th item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. And given that we've ended up much faster with this point than we thought, I'm adjourning for 10 minutes, at the request of government representatives who are on their way and coming, and I think that's the right thing to do in this case. So, we continue the meeting at exactly 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you all very much for your patience. We took the government's hand and waited 10 minutes, which is supposed to be an exception, but still, it's called constructive cooperation between the various branches of government. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEPARTMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PROTECTION LAW BEFORE SUPPORTS, EPA 1227-IV. We have 1 hour and 55 minutes to discuss. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for supplementary explanations to the Secretary of State. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u113	I'd like you to be behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words and, of course, an apology for your delay. I must say, as soon as we get the signal, we'll be on our way from the Ministry. I hope we didn't take up too much of your time. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Utopias constitutes the conclusion of a complement to the normative basis for protection against natural and other disasters. As you know, the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, the Fire Act, the Fire Protection Act have been amended so far. In fact, this law provides an adequate conclusion to this entire regulatory area and provides a condition and an important basis for the further development of the whole area. Thus, in this year, in the field of protection and rescue or protection against natural and other disasters, the focus will be on updating the implementing rules and implementing the organisational, technical and other solutions adopted by these laws as amendments. In the proposed amendments to the Law on Protection against Utopias, we particularly want to better regulate some of the solutions that have so far proved practical as some good experience. In particular, in the field of implementation of measures to protect against drowning by individual activities, rescue from water, bathing sites, bathing waters. The solutions that we have proposed in the law have been coordinated with different stakeholders. These solutions, which we propose, are in particular simpler and even more rational, and do not reduce the safety of drowning. The additions to this law, which were adopted on the home committee, i.e. the Defence Committee, have further improved certain provisions in the draft law. With regard to the amendment tabled in Article 16, we estimate that it cannot be supported or assessed that the current provision is appropriate in this regard. The supplement proposed in the amendment, in our opinion, is incomplete and brings in particular confusion about liability in relation to rescue workers or persons trained in water rescue, and voluntary rescue workers from water. In our opinion, in particular, there would be doubt as to who is being sanctioned in such a situation, since the amendment is ours for an article that speaks mainly of sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much for the additional explanation. At the same time, I ask you to convey your best wishes on the successful recovery of Mr Žmavc, Director of the RS Office for Protection and Rescue. The draft law has also been considered by the Committee on Defence as the working body of the mother and I ask the president of the Committee, Mr Anderlic, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u116	Respectable. The Committee has considered the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law, which is on the agenda, is not a new law, as the Secretary of State has said, but a change which clearly wants a high standard achieved in the area of protection from drowning and water rescue to change direction, I could also say that, failure. The point is that so far it has been so regulated that it has been necessary to test knowledge of whether someone is decent to be in a swimming pool or just where people are at waterside and there are certain events, each year at a knowledge test. Now this government has proposed that this be done for three years without adequate, say, regimes to ensure as much security as possible. It is that this law, the amendment of the law, was dealt with in the very week when two, five and a half years old children drowned on the public surface, and we in the National Assembly have changed the law to a worse one, so we are reducing some standard, but no matter what, the committee has adopted four amendments from members of the coalition who followed the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Services, they have not adopted the coalition MPs because there is such a relationship and such a majority - they have not adopted any other amendment, not one which, on the recommendation of the Legislative and Legal Services, has yet guaranteed a standard in such a way that the law is properly, professionally prepared, but not in the same way as the Legislative and Legal Service has warned. The standard is being lowered if the law is to be adopted, because no matter what the Secretary of State has said to comply with what regime, we will not achieve this law. But apparently, on the recommendation of some who manage swimming pools, as well as swimming pools in Primorje and so forth, we will lower the standard, lower the costs of those who manage it. If this is the objective of protecting citizens and citizens from drowning and natural disasters, you should decide for yourself. The Committee believes that the law must be adopted, and I believe that it will also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the Member and the President of the Slovenian Diving Union, Dr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the LDS, we do not oppose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Drainage as a whole, whose main objective is to reduce the number of drownings, both in regulated bathing sites and at sea, lakes, rivers and other waters. Nor did the profession have any more serious warnings or concerns about new substantive solutions or measures to protect against drowning. We regret, however, that our amendment was not adopted at first reading, that diving under ice should be exempted from the category of technical diving, as if resolution under ice is also considered a technical diving, then members of the Underwater Rescue Service of Slovenia are not responsible for such rescues, which are otherwise carried out. That is why we wanted the proposal to be aligned with the actual situation. Therefore, in our opinion, the proposal does not follow the rule of law and the principle of 'lex cert' that the law should be written in such a way that it is understood by all, including those who read it, not only by those who write it. The fact is that this subject is regulated by two laws, the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters and the Law on Protection against Utopia. The details of the diving are defined by a sub-law to the first law and therefore, as a lower-ranking law, it cannot, by virtue of the provisions of the Act on Protection against Utopias. The second fact is that the solution under ice in any of these laws is not exempt from technical immersion. Although we have been assured by the applicants that there are no obstacles to the recovery of people under the ice, we have also been assured by the Underwater Rescue Service, as defined in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents as a public service in the whole country. And, above all, we wanted to hear that there is no later possibility that members of the Underwater Rescue Service would be in legal vacuum or inconsistent if they went to rescue and find the missing person under the ice. Because it would be very wrong for them to be in some kind of trouble later because of their humanitarian, voluntary, charitable activity. Again, I stress that it would be better if diving in search, rescue was also defined in this law. We accept the assurances from the applicants and the implementation of the law in practice will show how much of this will also be achieved or made possible by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Juri, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u120	Colleagues and colleagues! Have a nice day! Despite the fact that Slovenia is whales with a variety of excellent swimmers and swimmers, with a multitude of its citizens and citizens who conquer Istrian and Dalmatian beaches in the summer, the swimming pools of the sea, river and swimming pools everywhere, the statistics of accidents on and in the water, particularly the drowning reminds us that there is no true swimming culture and that security in this area is still weak. According to the number of fatalities or cases of unnatural death, drowning is in an invisible third place, immediately behind traffic accidents and accidents at work. We have recently witnessed two such events where children were killed, in a hotel pool in Kranjska Gora, where he drowned a 5 - year - old boy and two days later in Fara near Kostel at the kindergarten there, a year and a half old boy in a 40 - centimetre - deep stream. The statistics therefore call for the utmost care to be taken in the area of protection against drowning. We have before us a new law which is regulated by the area, but solutions which we believe are not going in the direction of reducing risk situations or enhancing the safety of bathing and swimming pool users. In two articles, specifically in 12 and 13, security standards are reduced, the Legislative and Legal Service itself warns that the proposer and with him also the competent committee, the Defence Committee, would take these warnings into account and confirm the relevant corrections today by the Social Democrats. It is a matter of maintaining or prescribing the permanent presence of rescue workers from the water even in pools up to 200 square metres of bathing area and water depths less than 35 centimeters [35 cm], saying earlier that the child at the Kostel, who slipped the control of the trainers, drowned within 40 centimeters [40 cm] of water, and that rescuers from the water would continue to check their qualifications every year and not for three years. We understand, of course, the interest of bathing and swimming pool managers in reducing costs under this heading. But all our efforts should go solely in the direction of increasing or strengthening safety standards. Moreover, from the very types of professional lifeguards comes calls for better training and testing of knowledge in the provision of first aid, the availability of ever-new doctrines that arise here and for more life tests from water rescue, not just from swimming standards. That's it. Because these amendments to the Social Democrats Act have not been taken into account and our warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service will not be supported and we will leave the Government and coalition parties with full responsibility for possible new disasters due to insufficient protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of New Slovenia, Mr Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members and young students and students who are on the stand today! Unlike the predecessor, I will say at the outset that the law that we are considering today is said to be the Law on Protection against Utopias, we support Members of New Slovenia, because we are convinced that we are only improving the law in force so far. The law itself belongs to the field of protection against natural and other disasters. From this point of view, we have already adopted several laws, such as the basic one, on protection against natural and other disasters, then the Fire Prevention Act and also the Fire Protection Act. The proposed amendments to the Law on Protection against Smuggling are dictated by the practice so far and by the experience gained in this area. In the New Slovenia Group, we will also support the law because the proposed solutions are aligned with the majority of the interest groups that this law is tanning, especially because the proposed solutions are more rational and simpler and make a number of improvements compared to the law in force so far. In the New Slovenia Group, we are particularly pleased that the proposed changes to the law will not result in additional expenditure from the state budget or any other burden on public finances. The changes adopted will reduce the costs of organizers of various events at, in and along the water, since in many cases the organizer will take care of the presence of persons trained in water rescue and will no longer have to provide specially trained rescuers from water. I hope you know what the difference is. The costs of different bathing sites will also be reduced, as rescue workers will only have to carry out a water rescue and first aid and medical examination every third year. The reduction in costs will also entail the abolition of a specific technical and technical inspection of the swimming pool or of a special operating permit. To a greater extent, coherence and interlinkage will be ensured between the different programmes by which rescuers from water or persons trained in water-based solutions for individual activities will be trained. In all of this, the most important thing is that these changes will not reduce the level of protection against drowning. Perhaps it is interesting that we use the same arguments, one for the other for the other. Personally and Members of New Slovenia are convinced that one qualified water rescuer who performs this task is not required to carry out this test of knowledge every year, but that it is certain, of course, if he is doing his work seriously. Personally, we and Members are convinced that this is the case in every job. If you are doing your job properly, you are also training yourself, and every three years is certainly enough. Perhaps someone would say why we do not perform our driving test every year or at least every five years, which in many cases would be very necessary. To conclude, we are convinced that by law we do not reduce standards or cause, we do not reduce safety in bathing sites. And we will support these changes in the law of Members and Members of the New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! When considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Smuggling, it is the view of the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the number of drownings in the Republic of Slovenia has been steadily decreasing since the 1970s. And the events that took place this year cannot be indicators for years ago. This also proves to us that it is so legislative or that the rules governing the field are good and that at the same time obvious rules and effective in practice are implemented. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, in most cases, the area is well-ordered, and many times this also applies to sub-legislative acts that provide effective protection against drowning. The proposed amendment to the law, despite good regulation already, brings some innovations in the direction of even better, effective protection against drowning, especially when it comes to different, water-related activities. In particular, it is important to establish clear requirements in the case of various sports activities and activities on water and underwater organised by natural and legal persons. Protection against drowning is an integral part of protection against natural and other disasters. Such guidance seems appropriate to us in law, and a more detailed definition of spatial, construction and other technical measures is also needed in the view of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Too much overall protection allows too much space to discuss what measures provide for the protection required against drowning. The amendment clearly sets out measures, which are certainly a guarantee to achieve the objective, that is to reduce drowning. At the same time, the responsibility of one who needs to take care of it is clear. I would not like to be defined up to each of the proposed solutions, as the proposed novel is said to be an even better solution and to go in the right direction and we will also support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President and colleagues and colleagues! A proposal by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Utopias, which, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, is before us, but above all to my mind, although I admit that I am not participating in this committee and that I have scrutinized it, but nevertheless, some contradictions. The first contradiction is that the fundamental aim of the changes is to update the legal regime of protection against drowning as an integral part of protection against natural and other disasters and to improve individual solutions. I stress: meet individual solutions. This replenishment is already being eliminated by an assessment of the financial implications in which the manufacturer says with great pleasure that there is no additional cost, but that they will even be reduced. But reduced to whose account? It is likely that they will be reduced to a security account, for the first reduction, as an example, is indicated that rescue workers will only have to perform a skill test every third year. Which, at least for me and the logic of an ordinary citizen, is very strange. Reduce the number of years for an expert test of knowledge. At the same time, it speaks in an assessment, as part of the reduction, that greater coherence and coherence of the various programmes will be ensured. As far as I know, different programmes that are coordinated and related will not save the drowning man. That's not gonna convince me. The drowning man will be rescued by a water rescuer who will have to renew his physical, mental and first aid skills every year, not every three years, which is, of course, completely strange. Now about the content of the law, which deals with the additions of different articles, about the different deadlines for which I would like very much, what clarifications I will not talk about, but I will ask why, despite the comments made by the Defence Committee and these comments, believe me, I believe that they have been very justified, in these comments nothing has been done. The first comment, which is not clear to me at all and which is why, of course, I will not support this law, is that, i.e. article 12, under which "The bath manager is not obliged to ensure the permanent presence of the lifeguard where the total area does not exceed 200 square metres and the water depth is 1.35 meters". It's lowering standards, it's dangerous, it's harmful. And I don't want to tell the story that we all know, unfortunately, about the drowning of a five-year-old child. True, parents are the first to care for their children. Here. But wherever and whenever there is water, there is a possible drowning, and I don't know why with so many skilled paramedics, swimmers, trained people, we can't, especially students, provide extra income at the same time and at the same time help to save. The second point I would like to point out is the one highlighted by my distinguished colleague, Mr Mitja Slavinec, when he wanted to clarify exactly what the difference between solving under the ice is, because this law states that these solutions are carried out by qualified technical teams. Maybe it's true that the law is clear and true, because that's what technical teams do. Practice is different. Typically, the practice is that the society of divers, from wherever, the one closest to them, flew in and unfortunately rescued the drowned, especially if it happens under the ice even worse, is of course that the most cases when the paramedics were no longer rescuers, but only the searchers of the drowned were again and only members of underwater clubs and now I do not know why the term in this law should not be further defined. Yes, not only technical, but to obtain a license to authorize the resolution of professionally trained divers in diving societies. With all due respect for the goodwill of the preparers, I personally, Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Slovenian National Party, will not support this law because it reduces costs, but mainly reduces security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen has the following word on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u128	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, a nice greeting to all. One of the fundamental duties of the State is to protect people's lives from danger and to take appropriate regulatory and other measures. In the context of complementing normative regulation in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, the area of protection against drowning is being complemented and changed. The principle of prevention is a basic guide which must be taken into account in life-saving measures. Standardisation of safety standards must be developed in the direction of maximum security measures. Despite statistical indicators that the number of drownings per year should be reduced, the criteria for safety standards should at least be maintained if they are not already upgraded. In general, the proposed law can be said to preserve and upgrade the already achieved level of protection against drowning, since the obligations of the owner or the manager of the swimming pool are being adequately extended. A new set of persons trained in water rescue is being introduced to provide for the rescue of people outside the swimming pools in the management of various activities. More specifically and more broadly, spatial, construction and other technical measures to protect against drowning are defined in relation to the construction of bathing sites and a more rational obligation is laid down by the organiser of the public event to demonstrate, at the time of obtaining the authorisation, that he provided for all the prescribed measures to protect against drowning. We know that sports activities on wild rivers, such as kayaks, rafting, racing, took quite a few victims. The proposal shall establish the mandatory presence of the lifeguard and the necessary equipment for each individual group of participants for the acquisition of such activities. Operators of equipment for sports activities are also obliged to ensure that users are aware of the measures of protection against drowning. With regard to concerns about the less frequent periodic examination of the capacity of paramedics from now on, we believe that there is no need to fear that security standards will be reduced in this way, since the inability of an ambulance is not one of the reasons given in the 2004 report of the Slovenian Inspectorate for the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. It follows from the conclusions of the report that, in the framework of the inspections carried out, the following bathing deficiencies were mainly identified: insufficient number of water rescuers, inadequate equipment of water observation sites and rescuers, and insufficient and incomplete water rescue equipment. The Inspectorate is assessed that the situation identified is due to non-compliance with the required criteria and that the under-performing number of paramedics is also affected by the financial resources to be allocated to the payment of rescue workers from the water. The same findings have been made in recent years. But there's something else he's thinking about checking out the paramedics' skills. The drafting of the bill also took into account certain proposals and solutions from various interest associations involved in tourism and also in the role of bathing managers, and only these are convinced that each annual inspection is excessive. This may be true, but the weighting between the interests of individuals and the safety of all bathers in our parliamentary group tends to be security. However, it is important to be aware by the bath manager himself that, as responsible for the well-being and safety of his clients, he is aware of the importance of the appropriate skills of his employees. In view of the fact that the costs of bathing operators will be reduced as a result of the closure of a specific inspection of the bath or special operating permit, the obligation of operators is instead introduced to ensure that installations, equipment and facilities are operated on their own, and because of the less frequent periodic examination of the capacity of rescue workers from now on, we are confident that future savings will not be made at the expense of the insufficient number of rescue workers and the necessary rescue equipment. There are accidents and they will happen in the mountains, in the roads, in the baths, and elsewhere. The standards of security measures are provided from a legislative point of view and therefore the reason for finding the frequency of the causes of accidents and the category of participants should be sought in other places, particularly the responsibilities of the participants themselves and also in the monitoring of the implementation of the rules. Human Loss in These Disasters Possible [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The DeSUS Group supports the proposed law because we are in favour of any activity that produces results in order to ensure that our citizens are as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The last is Mr Hrvat, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Honorable assembly, distinguished representative of the Ministry! Since 2000, the Act has been enacted against drowning, which has very well regulated the protection against drowning and has perfected the normative regulation of this area. The basic aim of the law was to reduce the number of drownings not only in the regulated swimming pools but also in the sea, lakes and rivers. According to statistics, the number of drownings in Slovenia has been steadily decreasing since 1970. One reason for this is the comprehensive legal and submarital system of protection against drowning. However, despite good legislation, the various areas covered by the law that we are currently dealing with need to be amended and supplemented. So far, there have been slightly too many provisions of the law regulating measures to protect against drowning in areas where more people are usually bathed and bathing is not prohibited, where more attention will have to be paid to the future. The safety of frozen areas, which is legally within the jurisdiction of the local community or of authorised legal and natural persons, is also being assessed very slowly and only gradually. In practice, it has been shown that we have not yet had adequate experience in this area in Slovenia, so activities will need to continue to implement appropriate methodologies for determining the safety of icy areas and on this basis appropriate preventive and other measures to prevent accidents on icy surfaces. It will also need to be addressed more appropriately by ensuring or taking into account protection measures against drowning in the organisation of sports activities, of course in accordance with the rules on sport or in public events at, on or on the water. Solutions regarding leisure activities have proved non-life and need to be eliminated or amended to the extent that they follow the objective of the law. In addition to rescue workers from water, the role of persons adequately qualified to rescue from water should be exercised to a wider extent in the area of protection against drowning. The statutory procedure for obtaining operating permits or specific bathing sites did not produce the necessary or expected results in terms of improving safety and should be replaced by more appropriate solutions. The fundamental objective of the amendments and the completion of the Law on Protection against Utopias is therefore to update the legal regime for protection against drowning as an integral part of the protection against natural and other disasters and to complete individual solutions that will provide more effective protection against drowning in various activities. However, it must be said that the implementation of the law will not generate additional expenditure from the State budget, nor will it result in additional burdens on other public funds. In part, the costs of the organisers of various events will be reduced to, in and around the water, as in many cases the organizer will take care of the presence of persons trained in water rescue and will no longer have to provide specially trained rescuers from the water. In conclusion, while there is no uniform system of protection against drowning in the European Union, each Member State has its own national legislation, which varies from country to country. The solutions foreseen by our legislation are at the very top of the Member States of the European Union, which we can, after all, be proud of. By adopting the amendments and supplementing this law, we will continue to successfully pursue the goal of as little drowning as possible and thus death from a submerged water level caused by a natural or other accident or unforeseen event in any activity on, in and around the water. That is why we support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on Article 16 of the Law and the single amendment tabled by the LDS Group. You have a review in front of you, and I'm asking you, who would like to discuss it? I'm formally opening the application. Please. Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u132	We may be facing a comic situation, but I'm afraid it's rather tragic. It is comical because the Defence Committee has dealt with this issue and because we have tried to prove that this change of law does have harmful consequences, unlike Mr Bajc, who says it brings even better solutions. Look, there's only two solutions. And how to understand the absurdity of Mr. Yelen's claim, which says: "For 2004..." [[The ad in the hall.]] There is much to be done about it, not among the parliamentary groups, but when we are discussing it, I can argue, Mr Bajc, as I am pleased, in this case. But how to understand the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, which says - namely, it is necessary to pay particular attention to their position because there is also a minister from these kinds who has proposed this law in the procedure. And he says, this is his introductory report: "In 2004 the report says: The insufficient number of paramedics in places where they should be is a sign that something is wrong, that the situation has deteriorated." But they still defend the position that in pools that are up to 1,35 meters deep and measure 200 square meters, paramedics are completely eliminated, those who have to worry about monitoring what is going on in this pool are completely eliminated. Is it true who, even if a mother or a father forgets for a second the child, and went to the pool just like in Kranjska Gora 14 days ago when a five-year-old boy drowned, and this lifeguard is not there. Yes, the mother and the father are responsible, but it is right that the pool manager is also responsible, not only for this child, but also for someone who cancels it, for example, who is on vacation during the third period of life, gives him a heart failure or anyone who can help him. No, you're saying there's no need for the pool manager to ensure that. I don't think that's right. Even if all those who go swimming pay half a euro or more, there is less damage than if one drowns, there is no solution to it or to pay the manager there. This amendment or this change of law is completely lobbyistic by pool managers who do not want or cannot or do anything, this economy can be checked out, paid by someone or a student, as someone has already discussed there, during holidays, that he is at work at the pool and jump to help when necessary. Is it really money, just money, what makes us change these laws? I think it's unacceptable, as well as the other thing we talked about, competence. Skills are one of the basic things. Three MPs, and it wasn't Robbie Croat that his colleagues didn't look at him badly, but three SDS members have told me in the last 14 days, and that's really stupid, what we're doing to end the safety in the baths. But someone suggested this, and we will confirm it, because we will meet for coffee, and those people will also say that, the three SDS Members. I wonder, well, this amendment is really talking about being punished with so many and so many euros if someone abandons some activity, etc. But it's not a problem in punishing, in penalizing, in what happens next. The problem is the cause and do we want to ensure at each pool adequate prevention, if possible, I know that all things are not preventable, but that with some law release the standard that has already been achieved, and I cannot accept Mr. Jelena's thesis when he says, yes, there was insufficient number of rescue workers, according to the 2004 figures, I have read all these inspector reports for the last 10 years, but because it is a pleasure, we will vote in favour of a law that will untie managers from having in pools that are up to 200 square meters long and below 30 feet deep, but you know how many meters are thirty-five when you are in, say, to this, lying or hovering state? [[...]] Too much water you need to drown. But you're canceling the manager's obligation to have someone there to take care of it. Tell me, Mr. Government Representative, who you're responding to, on behalf of whom and on behalf of whom you're canceling this obligation in the pools, that the paramedic is there. Who maimed you? Cathage, Radenci, Bled, anyone, Sevnica, I don't know who? Justify with the numbers. You didn't justify that in the explanation of the law. You didn't establish that! How much is this cost to an individual controller? How much did this cost exceed for these operators? What is it that you actually contribute to higher standards? I believe that the State of Slovenia has reached such a high general standard in 2007 that it can take care of itself as a state with regulations, as well as if there is a need to grant a subsidy that on public surfaces, swimming pools, the sea and everything where swimming pools, rivers and so on must ensure that the safety of those who go there is ensured. And someone who manages these resources must also provide this. I'm not gonna tell him to take as much as he wants. But it costs exactly as much as it costs a man a day. And if you look today, it's there, let's say 10, 15 euros an hour, and it's a day times, and you can figure out what that is. I just want to hear the answer to the question: What does all this fine in Article 16 help us, up to €4,000 for an independent entrepreneur or a legal person if you have already abolished the obligation that someone who manages a public bathing area does not ensure a permanent presence in a swimming pool? That means, let's say for some swimming pool in Isola, that's saying, "Okay, but it's easier to say that I pay from 1200 to 4,000 euros, if it happens to me once, I count that it won't happen to me in a few years, and I'll do better than if I pay someone there every day in the bathroom." This is not acceptable to me, and I believe that I will get an answer because the proposal is professionally prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I think there's just a few things that need to be explained. First of all, I want to explain that the standard relating to the 200 square metres surface and to a depth not exceeding 1,35 metres does not change so that it does not change. He's just like he used to be. I'll explain later. The only area that could be referred to by amendments to the law as an area that can be referred to as a change in terms of the way in which training is provided relates to Article 31, which states that every third year the lifeguard must carry out a skill test, must carry out a first aid test and a medical examination. Only here is transferred from one year to at least every third year. For all other areas, I can say that standards in this area are more difficult. First of all, I would like to say that it is newly arranged that various rescue services, firefighters, divers, civil protection personnel and similar courses should be conducted every five years. So far, there has been no criterion. The next area I would like to highlight is public events. The area of public events has been particularly additional and more binding. The organiser of public events in and around water must demonstrate that he has the consent to such an event, that he has the necessary measures and the necessary number of people who are watching or caring for the safety of drowning. This is particularly true of areas that have developed particularly in recent years or perhaps in ten years, such as rafting, kayakism, and the like. The law additionally requires, like the proposal here, that companies carrying out this activity alone, as independent entrepreneurs, for each group of participants, must ensure the presence of the paramedic, that is to say we are raising standards here. Together, given the requirement that training be provided every five years and the other measures I have mentioned, the number of people who are qualified will significantly increase. However, if I return to paragraph 28, which speaks of the need for the presence of a prescribed number of rescue workers, I would like to point out in particular that so far this area has been governed by a regulation on amendments and additions to the rules on the classification of bathing sites and organisational measures to protect against drownings, which had the same provisions or comparable provisions as those set out in this proposal. To conclude, I can see that in many areas the standard of safety, competence is increasing and does not decrease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has a replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u136	But you can have a debate because others don't want to apply, but some people find it hard and boring. But do you really think that no one has read the law, the previous one, and these changes? The existing law in force states Article 28: "The owner or manager of the swimming pool shall, during operation, ensure the continued presence of the prescribed rescue of rescuers from water." And you refer to a rule that is one way or another a law that does not apply to the law. Please, Mr Robbie, you whispered to me, too, so that I don't lower standards. See article 28 of the existing law - the constant presence of a prescribed number of rescue workers from the water. You're changing it. And don't say you raise, improve, and I don't know what standards. Do what you think is best. Mr. Rich Guy, you already know how to adapt to the current situation. And now it's the will to lower standards, and you're just going to lower them. But the 28th article of the existing law - maybe you have another one, I have the only valid one, adopted in 2000. And for the 21st century, it is not acceptable, in my opinion, that what has already been achieved, in order to protect itself as much as possible from drowning and for the best possible solution, in the event of an accident, God forbid - God forbid, for you understand this word better - God forbid it. And all I'm asking is that, for God's sake, you don't change the standards that have been achieved. That's all this is about. Why is that? For that poor, lousy euro that will cost the one who will come to the pool, so that the one who is the manager can put it in his pocket because he will not have a permanent presence of the prescribed number of rescue workers from the water. If this is your goal, Mr Secretary of State, and even more so is the case with Mr Bogataj, who has proposed this law, which is now in force, but also with the one that has not been in force, one hundred regulations in the last 25 years, which deals with these matters, and is a civil protection commander and is the one who is responsible for the security of the Kurativ, not in the prevention, and for which this country is committed a great deal of money. Please knock on your conscience and ensure maximum safety in the baths! That's all this is about. Anything else will be voted by an exaggerated majority, not by an appropriate majority, with an exaggerated majority to be expressed in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I'm opening a loop of applications, because some of you want to replicate, but you haven't discussed it yet, and others want to replicate on the replica. The way out of the conundrum is the second round. Please sign up and the government's representatives will raise their hands. I can already see the raised hand. Thank you very much. [[The ad in the hall.]] I'd ask if I could take the meeting forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Many in this hall were also in the hall in 2000, when we adopted this law. Perhaps some still remember that at that time some parties felt that this law was unnecessary in the system of protection against natural and other disasters. An amendment was tabled to remove the name of the law, so there would be no law. It is true, however, that in these past years we have gained experience that confirms which solutions are appropriate, which is relevant in terms of changing development, in fact by this law, with proposed and corrective measures also in line with stakeholders. However, when it comes not only to those who are bath managers, but also to the interest groups represented by rescue services and others, in particular those who care for safety, we propose more efficient and, in particular, more rational solutions. It is important that the law also has to be proportionate in its solutions. And in Article 28, we merely confirm the practice already in place in this area in smaller bathing areas. Even if you are looking at provincial legislation in other comparable countries, you will find that these smaller pools do not have specially prescribed and unsolicited rescuers. However, they shall have obligations for personnel carrying out such baths. And we guarantee that, and we will guarantee that with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I repeat my word to Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u140	I asked you a few questions. I honestly thought I'd get answers. I ask one question again: Why are you changing Article 28? And Mr Žnidaršič, please look at what you said and what is in marriage when you say that it is not lowering the standard. And Mr Bogataj has actually confirmed my assumption that it is an interest group of pool managers and profiteers who find it difficult to pay one student to be present at the pool and will be there when it is necessary, because in principle these are students during summer practice, that they are in the swimming pools and that they are saving. Why and on what initiative, which stakeholders, on the committee, you told pool owners and so forth, you also have this in a magnetogram, but to hear again, at the initiative of which stakeholder group you changed Article 28 which says: Permanent presence of the prescribed number of rescuers from the water. And Mr Janc will be happy to support me then because he has been very involved in sports and he has a lot of betting on water sports and knows how important security is, he also has a large swimming pool in his municipality where, I am sure, he is interested in providing safety for bathers. Is it by eliminating this presence, something other than a lobbyist demanding a stakeholder group. Tell me, Mr. Richtaj or Mr. Žnidaršič, why did you change this to Article 28?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I don't know, I didn't mean to advertise again, but I still think it's only necessary after this debate, which, in my opinion, does not lead in the right direction. First of all, I need to talk to you about these cases that you're using for my terms today, these last drownings. But also this case can be turned around in a different way. These drownings have taken place at the time of the current law, it is said, when these requirements are those for which you claim to remain. So when there are paramedics present, and that's in this larger number, there are drownings. I know that every sacrifice that happens, and wherever it is in drowning, is invaluable and that we must do everything we can to ensure that these things do not come to pass. But these recent cases only show that so much security and care in the bathroom cannot prevent the victims in the bath. No one today wondered what more we could do in this area. No one talked about what Slovenians' swimming literacy is like, how much we spend on kindergartens so that they can teach their children how to swim. A good swimmer won't drown, except for some really sudden illness. So, this argument of yours, it doesn't work for me, I think it's necessary to take one common sense and one clever solution here. Also, your questions, Mr Anderlič, about interest groups, lobbyists and so on, what they have given to change this, we can once again put an anti-thesis on why we should support other lobbyists who check the capacity of rescue workers every year or perhaps there was no great pressure in the last period we have been preparing these changes, this lobbying on you to preserve this business in order to check the capacity of rescue workers and so on. The main thing we can do is we'll have as many swimmers as we can, and then we'll have the victims in the pools, despite the even more stringent measures that we can guarantee, there won't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u144	A man could even agree with Mr Koren, and we agree in a lot of ways, but I really had no better idea of how to increase security than what was prescribed. But I am deeply aware that if something is prescribed, it has to happen, that I will not make it worse. That's what I got. Since I didn't have a better solution, I didn't bet on a worse arrangement. You're obviously betting on a worse arrangement because you're saying let's let it go. As far as those lobbyists are concerned, look, I'm standing upright and under pressure, anyone who knows me, who would think that I could do anything with this steep majority, would probably say, because we know you can't do it, let's press on those who can: on DeSUS, on New Slovenia, on SDS and SLS, and let's do it, regardless of the municipal pools in Sevnica, regardless of the public surface in other areas, let's do it. They'll still have a pool in Rogatco, but now they have it in Rogaška Slatina. But for God's sake, that's all it is! Is it really possible? Mr. Koren, here we are talking as two, it would be said, sufficiently considered in the field as it is said. Is it really only possible for Jews to negotiate here? And that's what this is about. You say, those who train those who check those who should be trained on bathing sites are putting pressure on you to keep doing business. How many are those who manage and what is the relationship between those who train and those who are tenants and pool managers? Please! I think one in 100, if that's what I'm saying. But it's not that any way we refer to those accidents that happened here, two accidents, but that in the week that we discussed the law. You will not believe, last year, in March, in this Chamber, we are discussing the Programme for the Development and Construction of Highways and you take, your coalition, from one area, Mr Žnidaršič knows this well, 2 billion and redirect them to another. And the same day we were talking here, Trebnje had eight dead, on that section when you took the money. But it's the irony of fate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u145	Three minutes, Mr. Anderlich, a replica. It'll be possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u146	Okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has a word in this second round.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much. First of all, I would ask all respected colleagues that this is a law that we cannot politicise, because if they drown a member of the Social Democratic Party or the Liberal Democracy, there will be no difference between them. They'll both be dead. First time. Another time. With all due respect to Mr. Botaj and his decades of experience, he said, "We have assessed that in these four years it is just as it is written." I believe you. At the Ministry of Transport, it was estimated that there were no railway accidents where the Andre Cross was located. But that's where it happened. That's where it happened! And then they put up prisoners. Maybe I could give you an example of a mine closure where there are still 10 or 20 miners in the pit in the mine closure. That's where the mine closes. And they said, "Well, since the mine is closing down, there's no need to have any more paramedics there." But an accident does not choose the number according to the number of miners in the pit and according to the content of the work. And lastly, you have the right to draft the law, but you must be so honest with me, not least, as with Mr Anderlich, Mr Žnidaršič, you have said well, I have heard that nothing has changed. But, gentlemen, we all have a law before us, let's look at page four, paragraph three, line six, where it clearly says, see: "The costs of operators of various bathing sites will also be reduced, as rescuers will only have to be required every third year." This word "only every third year" says that this has happened every year, and now it will only be every three years. And I know it happened every year. So you're turning into the bad guys! Let's be so honest, let's look at Article 28, the old man who writes "...the owner or manager of the swimming pool is obliged to ensure during operation..." First indent, "...the constant presence of the prescribed number of rescuers from the water." Pika, it's over. And I return to article 28, as amended by this law, where it does not say "...the owner or manager of the swimming pool is obliged during operation to ensure the permanent presence of the prescribed number of rescue workers from the water..." but is a comma and continues "except in swimming pools where..." So you added some restrictions. So it's a change. If you have added this restriction, it means that you have reduced safety and reduced safety criteria in the pools. At least admit it. The law will be adopted as it is. But in my words, frankly, we are willingly trying to help, we are trying to help, and we are advising that we should leave the maximum security that has been provided so far. If it does not, I will publicly tell all the people here and before the public that I am imposing all the responsibility, at any time, God forbid, calamity, to the law-makers and to all those who will adopt such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Since there's a few more interested, I'm opening a third round. Please sign up. The Secretary of State has already done so. Thank you very much. The first one has the floor, Mr State Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In particular, I would like to point out that for safety, the operator is in charge of the bathing site in any case. But the diction, as it was written in the law, is about paramedics. And since you interpreted the existing article 28 of the law, allow me to explain it. I'd be happy if you'd listen because I think it's important. The first indent reads: "The constant presence of the prescribed number of rescue workers from the water." The prescribed number of rescue workers from water for swimming areas up to 200 square metres and so far there was no need, not need, but not defined. What am I trying to say? That the standard, as in today, will also apply from the adoption of this law onward. And once again, I'll tell you how much pool space is up to 200 square meters, that's 10 times 20 meters. So once again, I'm saying that this old article, if it can be a prescribed number, doesn't say how much, but it's prescribed. And I made it clear that there were up to 200 square meters. But only with a sentence would I turn to the fact that there have been some unloving events in the last time there was a drowning. I don't want to draw any conclusions from this, but a drowning in the pool occurred in an area where the paramedics were and where the pool areas are substantially above 200 square meters. However, I do not want to draw any conclusion from this, but I want to clarify that this can also happen when all activities are carried out as they should. So I conclude that we have increased safety standards and have not reduced them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Squeak. I'm sorry, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd say we've been doing things on the wrong end, but it's true that lately it's a very grateful topic for populism. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that each victim, regardless of the area of drowning or on the road, is priceless and regrettable. That's a fact. However, it must be acknowledged that prevention is the best one that can do the most. This is what we say, in this case, which we are dealing with today, is to teach people how to swim. They have a huge school assignment here at the beginning of their youth, and this is the best way. I would hope to argue, and I am also convinced that because of the law, if there are checks or checks on these paramedics every year, or every three months, or every week, if you want, there will be no less drowning. The second is the discipline of these people. That's something else. But that's not what this article of the law solves. The next thing I'd like to say is that there's been a deterioration in regulation. And I'd say that it's not possible that such an arrangement just made the lobbying work. lobbying those who deserve this check. I'd think first of all how much such a check costs. I'm not gonna tell you how many times a hundred thousand tolars of old it is. It's irrelevant. But it's important. That'll be at the next point. This is also the case for the technical checks of cars that were in the past every year, new cars, and now we have three years. Can anyone say that there are more accidents? Not at all. That's why there's no more accidents. However, those technical checks were, for the first time, a direct amount, secondly, a waste of time. And that also counts for something. And every year, you had to do this review, and someone made a lot of money on this whole thing. Another example would say that sanitary checks were carried out for those farmers who were in the dairy production chain. At first it was six months. Every six months it was necessary to pay those 10,000 tolars or what it was then. And now we've solved this so that it doesn't take every six months, but longer. Is that why this milk is more plausible? Not at all. There was some lobby that arranged for it to take place so often, or the frequency was so great to carry out these checks. Besides, I don't think it's negligible. If I had, say, every bather in my lifeguard, that would be the best. I'm sure. But we can ask ourselves how much it would cost. How much would it cost to go swimming in the pool for an hour? I just can't imagine, but that's right. Even so, it is necessary to look at the whole matter and what makes sense. Then a good compromise must be found. I'd say it's the other way around if it wasn't lobbying now. The lobbying was earlier. The facts speak differently. But we have to ask ourselves how much it costs to be 100% safe to have each of your own security guards, how much a service costs, so that you can go swimming for an hour. Will this give us any greater security? Question is, 'cause then every security guard has to swim behind every swimmer in the pool. This may be cartoonized, but what we are talking about today is mutilated and does not correspond to the actual state. These accidents that you are mentioning today have indeed happened, and once again I say that this is regrettable. However, they still happened under the old legislation. And why did it happen? Since such a system can't guarantee 100% security, that's for sure. And it's not a problem, but the problem might be somewhere else. The problem is prevention, as I mentioned at the outset. So don't talk about lowering standards. They're not getting any worse. Some lobby is possible with a certain guaranteed business, with money provided. That's all it is, and the other is prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State said that the standard did not deteriorate. It's a matter of defining whether it's a black, white or gray lie. The government says that the assessment of the financial implications for the public budget is such that the costs will be lower, as the organiser will no longer have to provide specially trained water rescuers. That's why the cost will be lower. If the cost is lower, if there is no need for rescue workers from the water, but only those qualified for rescue are the standard lower. So you just told a de facto lie. If someone convinces me that we can just shut down the permit, specific inspections of bathing sites that have been prescribed so far in addition to the technical and usable permits have been lifted and say that operators are obliged to ensure their own faulty operation of equipment, equipment and so on, but there is no longer a need for a specific inspection - and this special examination determines whether or not the tiles are sliding and so on - the standard falls. And here we have heard that the standard is not getting worse. If the standard is not getting worse, gentlemen, then why are you changing the law? Why did you come to Parliament if you say that the case is exactly the same in the case of Article 28, so you quoted here that, according to the local word, 200 square meters, 10 times 20 meters, even so far there was no prescribed ambulance or, in particular, there is no need for an ambulance if the water depth does not exceed 1.35 meters. All teenagers there by the age of 10 are less than 1.35 meters. And don't tell me the standard doesn't get worse. If the standard does not deteriorate, where does the positive financial effects come from? The positive financial effects are because the standard is getting worse. And, Mr Secretary of State, what you have said is already very common in this Government - the President of the Government is lying, and you, too, let go of a white, gray or black lie. The standard decreases under this law, according to the explanation of the law. Of course, what bothers me in the first place is that the standard is getting worse given, I will now say, some other European countries. Here you well cite the example that we do not go far north, Austria: 'The solution is determined by the dictions of the provisions of all countries. The presence of rescue workers from the water is not explicitly defined anywhere, except for the organization of events where rescue workers from the water must also be present. You are changing this provision from the previous Slovenian legislation and boasting that you will save costs. On whose account? At the expense of those who are less than three feet [35 cm]. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle, no offense, but I think such strong words as lies and lies, etc., do not belong in the National Assembly. No, I'm not giving you my word. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. It is certainly not only and only decisive that I use these supplements as a colleague on the left, how often the skills and skills of rescue workers are checked, but it is crucial how to ensure safety in bathing sites. How to ensure safety in bathing sites, how to ensure order and everything that is actually referred to in Article 28 is safe operation. This is, of course, the responsibility of owners and operators. We know from experience that most of the time it has happened here that certain acts of those who are responsible have been abandoned, among other things, that there is no warning of bathers acting contrary to and endangering the safety of their swimmers or the users of these swimming pools. And also very often, at least in the past, hygiene conditions and water quality were at stake. This, too, led to unloved incomes. Even verification is not decisive. It is decisive how a paramedic actually cares about his skills day in and day out. There is certainly no decisive frequency of verification, but it is only one of the elements that require rescue workers to undergo verification at certain times. However, all these lifeguards and owners and operators are subject to this duty on a daily basis to take care of bathing safety in accordance with their responsibility for safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to Mr Žnidarsic for his explanation of Article 28. But from this explanation it is a perfectly logical question, why is the comma then added and written "except in the pools" etc., if so far it was considered that "the constant presence of the prescribed number of rescuers from the water" was not necessary even in such a case. So if it wasn't needed before and it was only enough for this first part, I'm interested, I'm really interested in why this supplement is. Another question in this regard. Look, we just heard from a colleague that the owner is responding. I completely agree with that. But for this owner there is now a very large "finta" if something happens in the pool that is 180 square meters, God forbid, and the water is less deep than 35 meters and if someone drowns. I'd like to have a legal job here right now, I guarantee you he won't answer, because he's answering on the basis of what he's doing, my respectable colleague. The owners answer on what basis? Based on the law. The second question that comes to me with this comma and the addition is, what if the pool is 180 square meters and the water is 45 meters, because the binding is "in". If we move away from Article 28, I would ask another question. We must have slipped out there. Why is the review of knowledge and knowledge and testing of rescue workers from water from one year to three decreasing? That's a very correct question. Why from one to three? I estimate that each year's training is very useful. Then let's go. I absolutely agree with my colleagues who say that the right solution is swimming school and learn how to swim. I'll give you one comparison. You know, all of us who drive to work every day, we went to school, car school, and we did the exam. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, accidents are happening, even though we have an exam and we know how to drive. I just want to say, not now to look for some politicization, we just want to ensure some security if, like respected colleagues from the government claim for a 28-year-old and a new article, then I really don't know why you wouldn't "except in pools where [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] ".. and so on, what's new would be thrown out and everything would be fine. [[...]] And what harm would it do to rescuers from the water if they passed their exam each year? I don't know what would hurt them. You know, in two years with a man 27 years old, and when he's 29 years old, a lot can happen. It can get sick, it can have a poorer condition, forget how to give first aid. Believe me, I forgot a lot of grief because I did my car exam before "choo-choo" years ago, and I also think it would be good for the drivers to do that first aid or first aid test every five years. I'll admit it. And I don't know why you lower the standard of exams from one to three years. I don't see why. That's all I want to answer. And to the end. Please, I can take it all, you can say I'm a pure opposition right now, and I'm just a populism right now and I don't want to be. I really don't. I want to help this law ensure safety in all bathing sites, wherever it is. And we want only to help with our comments on this security. We don't want to hurt anyone, and we don't want to hurt anyone, and we don't want to make it look like the law is perfect. Neither do I. But I don't think he's good because he's lowering the safety criteria. That's all I'm saying, and I'm asking you to understand. And I have that right, and that's why I'm not a populism.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u160	It would have to be said that with everyone who spoke before me, it would have to be politicized. Mr. Petan has gone, but I can only tell him that, he talks about dairy checks and so on. Mr Kovac was severe in these matters, his colleagues, the client from the SLS, probably also from Nova Slovenije, and he also did some damage. Apparently, things are getting better there. But when we talk about this law, then say something different, Mr Kovac was chief inspector, head of VURS, you know him and you know what he was doing and so on. There's no shame in this, but that's not what this is about. But I think we've reached some standards in the 21st century, a little bit more than we did years ago. Even the cleanliness of the water and other things are checked in the pools. But now in this law, and I really don't know who writes to you this Latvian language when it says, "to a greater extent, the coherence and interrelationship of the various programmes will be ensured, by which rescuers from water or personnel trained to rescue from water will be trained, for individual activities, and all of this will not affect the level of protection achieved against drowning". But you really do cancel the check, and you do what you can to guarantee that you're connected, coordinated, and better saved from the water. But you're canceling that check. Tell me why. And when Mr Petan says, the interest groups are pressing you to remove or ensure that it will be verified, because those who are training are richly paid and want to keep it. Please, those who check there, compared to those who don't have to pay now, are not comparable. And he spoke about interest groups today at this meeting, Mr Bogataj, on the Committee, saying that the stakeholders have pushed the Ministry, how these are too much costs and that this needs to be addressed. Mr Richtaj, you have said this twice, today and on the committee. Then who is the one here who wants to achieve something? And please, if you're going to accuse us that by arguing that the prescribed number of paramedics is always, when the people in the pool are present, that we're going to stand up for this, I don't know any customerism or anything, then I won't believe you. However, I will believe that it is customerism, or whatever you call it, if you insist and enforce it, it is obvious that pool owners, pool managers and other bathing sites will not have to provide rescuers. That's a clientele! This is related to those who want to make money at the expense of those who bathe there. There really is no need, and if anything, it is only the irony of the fate that an accident occurred just during the week we discussed it. All I'm trying to say is that it's a kind of malice, but I mean, I mean, I mean, it's a subversion that you're advocating something that changes of marriage don't say in marriage, but it does say the opposite. And I just don't understand it, so I don't have anything other than my voice against it anyway. Enjoy the ride!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I think we have managed to drown the debate in general, so please discuss Article 60 and the amendment. The one who won't stick to it, I'll take my word for it. I'm opening a third-round application or a fourth. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, the debate went to everything else, except the amendment, we talked very little, nothing at all. But since the forerunners have spoken in general, I too will touch the ones they spoke of before me. I'd start training paramedics. You know, I think there are very important long-term experiences here, that is, experience in this area, which has led to the fact that it is obvious that checks and training will be sufficient for three years. I will speak myself out of my own experience because I believe that very few of those here who have ever dealt with such a thing, with resolution, with employment, with training, with education. I must say that I personally and also to all those interested organisations, such as divers, paramedics, firefighters and so on, for three years education certainly seems sufficient. These are the people who are interested in this job. And it's not like it's some painkiller who's going to make one decision, and I'm going to go, and then the next day you've changed your mind and I'd say, and now I'm not going to do it anymore. These are the people who deal with these things and want to do this work. That is why, from my own experience, three years of education for a water rescuer is completely enough. That's why I think everything that's been said is a big demagogy. Of course, I'm sorry, just like everyone else, every sacrifice that would have happened. But because of this, if there's an education [[End warning sign]] for three years or one year, we will certainly do nothing about it and there will be no more casualties. He's getting to the victim. That's why I think it's [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u163	Time's up. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u164	I am discussing the amendment to Article 16, Mr Vice-President, which discusses how those who do not respect what is already being done will no longer need to be respected, because these standards are no longer, because this has happened in the way that Mr Žnidaršič and Minister Erjavec simply said that the pool managers, who have 200 square metres of surface and 35 centimeters of deep pools, need nothing to do - or even those with swimming pools on the river or at sea. Because this is clientelistic, lobbyistic or, as Mr Petan says, these are the interest groups that have pressed on the government and on Minister Erjavac, who is obviously aware of this. That's what this is about. And I never thought that when we came to 83% of the EU average, as far as income across the country is concerned, we would lower the standards for Jews' money, for those who run pools that still have to make a few extra bucks. And I know, for over 40 years, I've been a firefighter, Mr Robbie, for over 40 years and more, that it's always been competitive within society, who's going to go to some training, where we're going to go, what we're going to find out. This was happening, not the other way around. That's not how I feel about it. If we really only have to look through Jew's money, then we're in bad shape. And especially when I look at those who go beyond that, I don't know what we're writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. More mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a colleague from the SDS who spoke before me is required not to test rescue training every third year, but also a medical examination. And if anyone thinks that the medical situation changes every three years, it is clear that the standard of medical examination is deteriorating. That's why I said earlier that this is a conscious, unrealistic statement with a view to misleading. And that's a lie from the Slovenian dictionary. The government said the standard is not getting worse, but the standard is getting worse. Because of the standard, we also have an amendment to Article 16, which seeks to ensure the standard we have so far. If the standard didn't get worse, there would be no savings. And these savings are at the expense of those, I'm afraid, who are less than a foot and a half. In this context, gentlemen, if the law has been enforced, if this law has produced and provided certain standards and these standards are comparatively similar in some countries, I do not understand why - except because of your failure to provide for interested groups - a specific technical inspection of bathing sites or a special operating permit should be abolished. To say that the owners of the swimming pools are responsible for this and no one will control them; this is the lowering of standards and someone here has spoken of them as a lie as a conscious, unrealistic statement, with a view to misleading them. That's what the government of Mr. Janez Janša does.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I guess my warning didn't go away. But anyway, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it? Then I'll open it again? Sorry, Mr. Anderlich, there is no more time. No, no, no. The amendments do not divide according to the Rules of Procedure. That's the way it is. Since no one wants to discuss or wants to, and there is no time, I am forced to conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment, including the explanations of vote, today in the framework of the vote, by allowing me to round up the vote at 7 p.m. and 15 minutes. So 15 in seven. Thank you very much. Nice break, and I'll see you in half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We are moving on to today's closed agenda item, first of all to the end of the 17th item of the agenda - this is for the consideration of the proposal for a candidate for a minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Before we proceed to the decision, please check the cards and voting devices submitted. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "For a Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, the name is Dr. Žigo Turka." What explanation for the voice? Yeah. I am opening an application for explanations on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Miran Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Since there has been some unnecessary exaggeration in the debate about the candidate for Minister Gigi Turk by colleagues from the Democratic Party, it is only right for me to come by and say a few sentences. Firstly, it is right that the National Assembly and the Members of the Democratic Party are aware that we are Members and Members of the Social Democrats of the opposition Group, that we are not a government party and we are not responsible to the Government, but that we are an opposition that has the right to decide in our conscience and our own conviction and that we are aware that a good candidate will also have to act in accordance with the Government's programme and because we do not support these governments, we cannot support his candidacy. As regards the partnership relations mentioned. In the development partnership, we are working with the Government on jointly agreed projects. Sometimes successful, sometimes not, but never in a relationship of subordination, but in a relationship of equal cooperation between the two partners. This should be borne in mind by the coalition parliamentary groups, who have constant comments on the possibility that, at times, the content of the solutions proposed by the Government, we will form our proposals, with them, and thus improve the text. As far as content is concerned, our opinion is that the presentation of Dr Turk's candidate and the powers he has do not provide a clear picture of what his priorities will be. On the one hand, its priority is to carry out development tasks in accordance with the strategy and, on the other hand, to implement the resolution on national development programmes. We are convinced that it would be right to define the priority tasks more clearly. The resolution on national development programmes was adopted by the Government and this is a government document, and its reality depends on many issues which are not guaranteed in the national budget in the programmes or in the institutions or in the light of the funding system or the funds provided in the national budget. These are some fundamental reasons why Dr. Turk's candidate cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you. Is there any interest in an explanation in your personal name? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 13. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that Dr. Žiga Turk is appointed Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u171	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Dear Mr President, respectable both Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! Thank you for your trust! In fact, I will make an effort to do this work, which some people do not actually envy or say is not necessary, so that you may admit that it is good to have this development service. I thank you for those votes that were in favour. I understand those voices that were "against." I hope that we can all work together and do what we can for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u172	Dr. Gigi Turk, we wish to perform our duties successfully. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the proposal for a candidate for a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Mr Iztok Jarc is hereby appointed Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Is there a desire to explain on behalf of the Group of Members? I'm opening applications on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! We do not oppose the candidate, Mr Jarc, at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. There are no reasons for this, either, and we are confident that, with the help and in the light of the different reflection that has been in place in Slovenia for the past two years, he will be able to do much more, so at this point a good choice can be made. We are confident that the success of the agricultural story on the European floor will be a part of our role in the Presidency of the European Union, but we note what has happened too often in Slovenia over the past 14 days - the situation in Slovenian agriculture is too ideal, it is described as too pink. People, especially in hilly areas, where there are restricted areas, do not see these stories so successfully and have difficulty living. It is therefore incomprehensible to us how the policy of the Ministry and Government over the next seven years amounts to EUR 73 million for agriculture. We warn and warn against those key objectives, for God's sake, we have to decide what we want Slovenian agriculture to be. Slovenian agriculture cannot be an intensive food grower, so such laws as have been adopted, the Law on plant protection products, for the environment, for Slovenian agriculture is not a good story. As soon as possible it is necessary to say bob beans in the field of genetically modified organisms and to take Slovenia on that path in agriculture, which we want to carry out - that in addition to producing domestic healthy, safe food there is an important editor of Slovenian space and that he also cares about environmental protection. Regardless of the fact that the ministry's coming path will not be easy, it will be in Slovenia's best interests if it is done in a good and good manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you. Is there any interest in a personal explanation of vote? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the candidate is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 7. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Mr Iztok Jarc is appointed Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u175	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I thank you for today's constructive debate. To all those who voted for me, I thank you for your support and hope for good cooperation with all the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u176	Mr Iztok Jarc, we wish to carry out our duties successfully. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2007. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2007. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[1 versus.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on protection against drowning. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 16. It was tabled by the LDS Group of Members. I'm asking, does anyone want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Thursday, 8 March 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the vote of the House of Deputies from yesterday's question to the President of the Government and ministers.We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - Issues of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Bogdan Barovic, on the project of comprehensive development of the area of the third development axis." An application shall be made for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that I am Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Slovenian National Party, even in my words, which I have said about the Minister without a passport from Dr. Žigi Turku, I have gladly pressed the "for" button. Not only that, but also with one purpose, we trusted him all together today. And the first opportunity that appears to be possible and I hope and I want you to confirm with this our wish to be able to talk about an integral part of the strategy on national development projects to which it will take the lead in the next meeting. I seriously believe that this is a very serious content, and this content certainly requires in-depth discussions and discussions with the new Minister without a licence when it can and will, of course, also have to explain some confusion and issues that are also in the resolution already written. I am counting on you, colleagues and colleagues, to have so much respect for us, who, with the desire that this Minister, without a ticket, will only come and help us, not least Slovenia, to all of us and the Government, we voted in confidence and also vote, and the first chance that at the next meeting, the content that I stress is the subject of the resolution on national development projects 2007-2023, Dr. Žiga Turk will come and explain to us a part of this resolution and a part of this content relating to the national energy programme, the national hospital programme and, in particular, the third development axis, which means the national economic, environmental, energy and transport space of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you. What kind of interest? Yeah. I'm opening an application for an explanation on my personal behalf. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Yesterday my fellow Member, Bogdan Barovic, raised a concrete question, which, of course, touches on the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023. So, those projects that will start this year in 2007. This is a very important issue affecting the modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes. An important issue, of course, concerning the Sava region or region, which is one of the poorest in our country. And given that we have received today a new minister who has made the promise that he will care mainly for the development, development of Slovenia, I think it would make sense, as my fellow Member has already said, to support the proposal for an extended debate on this important issue also because Prime Minister Jasen Janša said yesterday that in this important document only approximate assessments are made, or in particular in connection with the modernisation of the state road network, only an approximate assessment of where a new route would take place. In short, a number of questions regarding this document, which remained after the reply of the President of the Government yesterday, are either unclear or unresolved or only approximate, and it would make real sense to get detailed answers to the entire strategy or resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u181	Mr Janez Janša said on his visit to Savinja-Shales region: "In 2008 we will start building the third development axis from the Austrian border to the Ljubljana-Cele motorway." Yesterday, it was confirmed that this will not happen in 2008, so before a bad year and a half in the Sava region, Mr Janez Janša deliberately referred to false data in order to inform citizens of when this development axis will be carried out. Looks like we got a serious problem. This will not happen in 2008, and it is not even known where it will be. You have just elected a Minister for Development, who, as his task, has to ensure that the development axis is brought into space, has a year and a half, it is right to discuss in the National Assembly where the third development axis will be brought back during this Government's term of office. If you do not intend to do so, you do not want to hold Mr President of the Government to his word. I believe it is worth reminding him of what he promised a year and a half ago to visit the Savini-Shales regions, and the opportunity to discuss this is at the time of the proposed parliamentary question. I will therefore support the proposal of colleagues to discuss in the National Assembly in the presence of the new Minister, in the presence of Mr Podobnik, Mr Bozič, and if there is also a need for Mr President of the Government, whether or not the third development axis will be placed in the space in 2008. That was promised, obviously not. So, why won't it be?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you. Any other interests? [[It's not.]] We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Darje Lovtijar Bebler, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of the delegation, Darja Lovtizar Bebler, on the response of the Government to the speech of the Italian President in celebration of the remembrance of the foyers". What desire to explain your voice? I am opening an application for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. This question, raised by colleague Beblerev, was very clearly answered by the President of the Government that the appearance and definition of Italian President Napolitan on the event after II was. World War II is very one-sided and some statements are unacceptable. The Slovenian State also diplomatically responded by letter from the Foreign Minister to an Italian colleague to publish the so-called White Paper of Slovenian, Italian historians on the event at that time. The Committee on Foreign Policy, as is known, has also sent the same call to our partners in Italy for the publication of this book, from which a comprehensive view of these events would be present. For this reason, our Group of Members is not in favour of this and will not support this proposal in order to address these issues, to which the President of the Government has also made clear that there is a need to reach a political consensus here within all the parliamentary groups, which has been achieved on the Italian side and has also been stressed by the President of the Government. Of course, it is clear that Slovenians, Slovenians, have experienced a terrible fascist terror since 1920 during the Fascism, that Slovenian names have been assimilated, which is the method of ethnic wiping of Slovenians, that violence continued during the war and that violence unfortunately continued after II. World War II, when it came to communist violence from the position of class enemy and to the suffering of all nations, the Italian nation and representatives of other nations. I regret that former Slovenian diplomats, Dr. Aleš Bebler, Dr. Wilfan, Dr. Stanovnik, who met with the Italian President in the context of the communist movement often failed to explain to the Italian President the dimension at the time and what it was then and that we are experiencing such things today. Of course we're for discussion, but that's the way to "ad hoc". We need to be united, and we need to respond properly. And the right place is the Foreign Policy Committee and then the plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. So, I wanted to point out that, in one part, the President of the Government answered my question yesterday, irrefutablely, in the part where he said that he had already responded to his press conference at the speech of Italian President Napolitan, that some day after that the Government had published on its website its position that the Italian President's performance was unilateral and that Slovenia could not agree with him. He also said that our foreign minister had sent an appeal to his Italian counterpart, but Italy should also publish this joint report by a mixed group of historians from Italy and Slovenia; but these are, believe all, very selfless answers. My question was: Will the Government, however, adopt concrete positions and also directly familiarise the Italian side with these concrete views? The answer was that it was a relationship between the President of the Republic - the President of the Republic and that it was right that President Drnovšek replied to President Napolitan in his personal letter. I am convinced, however, that it is the national interests of Slovenia, that these issues are important for the position and reputation of Slovenia in the international community and that this National Assembly is also obliged to take once a direct position towards the positions of the Italian side, which are going in the direction of - let us not stifle our eyes - to revise historical facts, to challenge the Paris peace conference, to reopen the issue of optants, that the Italian side, by amending its Citizenship Act, has reached the sovereignty of our country and so on. And when the Prime Minister says, "Take your breath before attacking your government," all I have to say is, "Do we have another face to set?" For believe me, the Italian side, if not earlier, will come again on the day of the new 10th of February next year with such an extraordinary appearance. And I am sure that this country must adopt a strategy for relations with the neighbouring country, where we need to make clear what our views are. And do not hide behind some relationship the President of the Republic - the President of the Republic, even in the National Assembly we have our own responsibility for this. Therefore, I ask you to support my proposal to hold a special debate on the response of the President of the Government and to adopt a concrete position in this response, not an "ad hoc" position, as Mr Jerovšek says. It is said that we have the foundations and foundations for preparing complex, comprehensive and unified positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you. What interest after explanation in his own name? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mr Dusan Kumr's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, and the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm, to Mr Dušan Kumr's question on measures to detect and prevent nepotism, clientism and corruption." I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Kumer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday, when I proposed this debate in the National Assembly, I said, inter alia, that the three ministers, not only the two whom I asked them, did not satisfy the internal ministry about nepotism, clientism and corruption even a month ago. All three responses indicate that in Slovenia these phenomena are almost absent or to a minimum. People who seem to face this problem daily are assessing something quite the opposite. They estimate that laws apply to currently rulings slightly differently than to all others. To get you or that permit, one or those papers, to succeed faster and more confidently on this or that invitation, you have to be on the right side. Last but not least because, after the International Institute for Management's research on the abuse of internal information and corruption, we are still classified as a risky state. Last but not least, what I might have said yesterday in a slightly different way, which we can also read in the daily press every day, that someone from this "state hen" is stealing chickens. And some find out, and they know well, that these chickens carry big eggs. It's just that it's about time now, and the current ruling coalition has assured this two years ago and promised voters that all these niches they're stealing through will also be blocked. I do not believe that there is a Parliament, a normal Parliament, which would not discuss this. And this Parliament has not specifically discussed this in two years, so I propose that after two years we really hold a debate in Parliament about the current state of affairs and the assessment of corruption in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Kumr's proposal that the National Assembly discuss the issue of corruption and clientism in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group cannot be seen in the light of the clarification of the actual situation and on this basis the search for the best ways and measures to effectively combat such phenomena, but in order to attempt to find a causal link between such phenomena and the current government, although it does not offer anything that demonstrates this causal link and does not offer any evidence. When asking the question, he merely cited a few cases that would be involved in a series of practices that suggest corruption, clientism and nepotism. He cited the insular mayor's nepotism, the clienteleism of the environmental minister in the company PUH, the suspicion of corruption in the recruitment of helicopters and the granting of medical concessions. None of what he stated was more concrete than before the court, nor before any other institution, nor were those cases confirmed as corruption or clientelistic, which is why citing some cases that have not been confirmed anywhere so far as to be genuine, is a normal representation in the service of political interests. Perhaps, however, the applicant is acting on his own initiative and on the basis of his political thinkers, who, in the past mandates, have been fairly assisting in proven illegal practices where corruption and clientism have served as the key. Remember the SIB bank affair, the Zbilij Gaj, the Credit and Nutrition Service of Sicura, the real estate affairs of some LDS Members and Social Democrats and many other similar things have upset the public. Because they themselves know very well what it looks like, because they themselves were very close, and because of their political power, they even allowed such and similar thievery to take place, such work is now attributed to the present government or other representatives of government parties. It is a fact that this Government has recently adopted a regulation which provided for the incompatibilities of the highest political functions with membership in supervisory boards of companies in which the State has a direct or indirect majority share. It did not prescribe this because corruption or clienteleism would occur in individual cases, but because it cannot be excluded in advance and it is a preventive measure that prevents such potential harmful phenomena which have not occurred in this mandate in contrast to the previous ones. So this government has only limited itself to do what none of the previous governments has done, and thus the party I belong to has shown that what it has said before the last elections is that it will fight against all the negatives associated with the temptation of power, even in practice. You, Mr Proposer, and your political party have failed to do so in all the long years of rule in past mandates, so we will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you. Is it an interest to explain in your personal name? Check-in is on. Mr. Kumer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Yeah, it's a little harsh if a government official who's been in power for 16 years in the capital of the state is also alive, and he's guilty of all the troubles and problems that have taken place in this major city. In short, he's been sitting in the same seat for 16 years. And who mentions the SIB bank! Let me just remind him, SIB, that when I raised the question to the interior ministry and the judiciary, I specifically pointed out that I find it strange that the ruling coalition, which can say so much about this SIB bank, today the government has a business relationship with the main suspect in this SIB affair. It is said that it has a commercial part of the district court, over 100 square metres of space owned by the same man. So much for the illustration, why, of course, in this Pharisees, I do not accept such disqualifications. With regard to what has been said to be true after two years of the government's promise in this way, I must say the following: for two years I myself have worked personally in this National Assembly to prove to the ruling coalition that it is not good for state officials from ministers to state secretaries to sit in supervisory councils, because this is a transparent proof of customerism, which can also have elements of corruption. And what you have accepted on the SDS party's main committee or council is indeed this true pharisaicism and transfiguration. You have actually "de facto" admitted that corruption in Slovenia exists, that you are now the main protagonists of this corruption, and that is why you have had to limit your people, who have been set up in these two years, somehow in this corrupt and clientistic matter. And you've accepted what you've accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Obviously, Mr Kumer didn't listen to what I said before, or I couldn't conclude it like he did. I said that this was a preventive measure against any temptations that could always occur. What this government has done in two years, as you say, is a long time, the previous government and the previous and previous government have not done in the 15 years of rule. However, given that the case of the mayor in Isola was also mentioned, which was supposed to carry out nepotism operations, I would say only the following, that the group of employees in the municipality, which also delivered some documentation today as well as the previous mayor, who was also a member of this national assembly, did not even show or include certain revenues in the budget, but only transferred them to some private companies, there is also contractual documentation on this. But I will quote only one part, which very illustratively also refers to what we are deciding today. I will quote only these two sentences; "I hope that at least you, accompanied by the media and the public, will be able to expose the duality of a woman who has intimidated us for almost 10 years and forced us into acts that were not illegal or moral, while she has employed her relatives and friends, and the Communist colleagues who helped her, and the plots and apartments. You probably know that Kumer has an apartment in Isola and that Kolar's Milojka has come to a great pitch. Where did you get the information? And what bothers us most is the information and mediation we had to regulate the employees of the congregation, otherwise we were threatened with revenge." And just in the end, so you're talking about 11 years of work in the city council, all this time I was a city councilman in the opposition, how much [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u195	The SDS gentlemen said they didn't have three K's. You really don't have three K's, but there's an NKK, an untruth, clientism and corruption. And here's the thing about corruption. The Commission of Mr Drag Kos - currently only defends itself with a constitutional decision - has and has made it clear about helicopter transport that there is a suspicion of corruption. Today's or yesterday's Directive speaks of another corruption: "Domna Zavrla's hunters, the SDS economic programme writer, go to the pediatric clinic." The data is banal. On 20 July, the signed contract was conditional on the signing of the contract between Makro and the Ministry of Health and 14 days later the payment of the first 13 million tolls, so-called enterprise, business and tax advice for the project, by the pediatric clinic. Together, Mr Domen Zavrl received 61 million jobs from the Ministry of Health to advise on tax matters in the business of the paediatric clinic, the economic adviser to the SDS. That's what the yellow press is talking about. That's what the press are talking about. And to say here that you don't want to have a debate about the NKK, about the untruths, about clientism and corruption, it's just an act of deliberation. Unless, of course, in this National Assembly, it is inappropriate to speak and use the word lie, which is "a consciously unrealistic statement in order to mislead". And that's exactly what Mr. Dimitri Kovacic did in front of me. There's evidence, there's evidence, and that's why we should be discussing it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And do not say that you are as pure angels. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I myself, in the past term, have generally supported the opposition's demand to clear up certain things over which the shadow of doubt hanged, so I am surprised that people who have spoken a lot about the need to clear up and establish a parliamentary supervisory function now oppose this. They are opposed to virtually every debate on any issue. However, as far as the proposed topic is concerned, in addition to the helicopters listed, in addition to the payment for the work done, but unsolicited, we have a case where the Minister of Foreign Affairs privatised the fleet for the needs of his family. It does not wish to discuss this with the committee responsible in the National Assembly and does not wish to include the President of the National Assembly in the meeting of any working body. We have other cases. If you take what's going on around Lipica, of course you can say that you're trying to ensure some development there, but you can actually think about being a golf club [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] SDS organizes its playground, and there are these things. [[...]] These are things worth talking about here and there would be a lot to say. I don't understand that you're afraid of this discussion, even though you come out of every discussion with pre-prepared conclusions clean as, I'll say, the source of Soca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr Školč, I ask only once again that you do not have to say such nonsense in explanation of vote that the President of the National Assembly does not wish to include your proposal in the committee meeting. Mr. Grill has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. In the next instance, I do not want to support this proposal for a very simple reason. For almost two years now, the proposer has cited some of the facts that are practically only due to events of past mandates, the governments in which you yourself have participated. And I feel like you're standing in front of a mirror explaining to yourself the things that have happened. If I remind you that those meetings that the opposition then requested were backed up with a number of evidence files. Now, on one page of one of the insinuations you are making, they do not really have any concrete reasons for such discussions. As for nepotism, clientelism and all that is, everything in one person happens in Isola, when you also tried to forge elections to maintain the status you had in the past. The next case is again, as you read, from the newspaper. The former mayor, a member of your client's party, was the last day of the vote to allow Freelance to do business. I think that tells us all about your principles and the operation of your client. However, our party is aware that this certainly makes sense, as we have accepted, that the incompatibilities of the political function with the functions of the state supervisory councils are incompatible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you. Is there still interest in the debate? I'm opening the application. Before I give the next group an opportunity to explain my voice on my personal behalf, I ask you to take into account that it is an explanation of vote and not a controversy. Let's just discipline this point a little bit. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I'll be very brief. But I also wanted to point out that we are essentially embarking on some infertile debate. I don't think we need to talk about nepotism, clientism and corruption in the way we are doing it right now. And I will not support this initiative alone and also in New Slovenia. I think that, at this point, Slovenia is ahead of more important tasks than we are tired of this Parliament with such debates. I like it very much when I listen to these debates, not to mention that Nova Slovenija is also involved in all these matters. And I'm very happy about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Scholch? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm taking advantage of this procedural option so that it doesn't hang in the air, that it goes to my request to deal with, I'm going to say, the private use of service vehicles as some kind of special nonsense. It is a matter of question that the Committee, where it places the accounts of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, does not want to deal with this, and on my repeated request, in accordance with the powers and rules of procedure, you do not wish to tell which working body is competent and to include this material. This is your mission, not my stupidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u204	Mr Školč, this was not a procedural proposal, it was an abuse of the rules of procedure. I've already sent you a letter to answer your question. Do you have a procedure? Just please don't abuse this rule of law. Mr. Kumer, you have the possibility of a procedural proposal, just don't abuse it, or I'll cut it off by the end of the line.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u205	No, I'll just be a quarter. Of course, I thought that you would warn a colleague who was talking about why I did not present a whole mountain of material on the question of the post. And I think that you will procedurally warn him that this is impossible in the matter of a Member of Parliament, but if, of course, the National Assembly votes today that we have a debate at a meeting of the National Assembly on this, but of course we will also have the material 10 years ago. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u206	Mr. Kumer, this is a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u207	No, no, no. Procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u208	Please, come on. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you, President. I will, of course, support the initiative. Last but not least because your benches, your coalition party colleagues, are coming to our account for the facts of the past. We are, of course, addressing to you the accusations and allegations concerning the last two and a half years that you have. It is an opportunity to resolve the credibility of these accusations and those allegations in such a debate. You're avoiding it, we're not, we're proposing to do this, even because we're going to hear and see from Mr Kovacic just a paper he quoted earlier about employees, I'm guessing that paper is nameless. This is one of the many forms of paper that anyone can produce to be flattened with charges. I, too, have heard about Mr Kovacic a number of things about how he seized his property and so on, but he has no proof, so I'm not talking about it either. Let's give ourselves a chance, a chance to talk about it, and we'll deliver all the necessary documentation to our concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Kumer made an amended proposal yesterday, he explained it today and I support this proposal. If colleagues and colleagues really wanted us to always address the topic of customerism and corruption in this National Assembly, we would support this proposal. Mr Grill, too, especially because he says that corruption occurred mainly in the past, could have been said. Mr Kovacic, who says there is nothing now, but everything has happened before that. I could say this in this debate, but not that a lie without arguments, without any facts, lists the names and surnames of sitting colleagues and colleagues here just to distract attention from the topic that has been proposed. Is it moral, colleagues and colleagues, to anyone who bought a weekend at sea, that is also possible for Izola to report that she has it? He bought it with his own resources. Is it right, then, to make it clear that the Prime Minister also has a weekend in Leprechaun and someone else? Is that even moral, Mr. Kovacich, or is it? Let us talk about the content of the problem, not in this way reacting to each other, for then it will not be the National Assembly, but the accusation of each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u213	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will be very brief so that I do not cause the abolition of Parliament, but I will still explain my vote. I will vote in favour of this debate and I think that everyone can discuss it. Since I have heard how very clean you are, colleagues, how there are no problems with this, this open debate would certainly contribute to what we call anti-corruption. We could point to this, because without this butter on your head and without backpacks, as you say, you could be very, very free and then these principles of "gifts", "chamaradshaft" and lubrication would reveal and clearly reveal. Such opposition, quite scrupulously, tells me about something else: that obviously things are, but that it is better not to be seen by the Slovenian people. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you. Is there any other interest? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitje Slavinc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac, to the question of Mr Mitje Slavinc's delegation regarding the construction of a military barracks in Murski Sobota. Is there a desire to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Gantar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of Mr Janez Sponik to the question of Mr Paul Ganttar on the contractual basis for the implementation of the rehabilitation of the Predelica beach. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u215	It is clear that I propose that you support the proposal to hold a debate. It must be said that the answers to the questions raised by Minister Sponik were slow and evasive. If you remember, I was talking about a beach rehabilitation project, a partial project, we don't even know if it's a complete or partial project. He spoke of intervention works, referred to a regulation, where this regulation on the operation of a public water management service from the beginning of 2000 does not contain those definitions nor the terms and terms for which it applies. I asked them how they accounted for the amounts paid in this settlement, if the building book was not signed, whether they had experts who could do so "post festivals", which is otherwise very difficult. And, of course, I asked him about the settlement, mainly because the settlement was counseled by the Attorney General. In such cases, everyone would, I think, have decided to follow the opinion of the Advocate General, because this is clearly assessed so that the Government or the State could win the dispute. I myself remember that lawyers have usually proposed a settlement to ministers and others, and they have tended to slip away and go to court, perhaps even groundlessly. You have an exact opposite case today. Otherwise, very much to settle the biased defences, this time counseled, not settlement, and the minister decided differently. More than enough questions, more than enough, I would say, reasons to bring, show and discuss documentation. I personally don't want to accuse anyone of anything in advance. I just want the answers to my questions to be clarified, I just want to explain the circumstances why the ministry then refused to pay, why it felt necessary to follow the path that went, what happened to the question of the concept of rehabilitation and so on. These are fateful and important issues and it would be good to discuss them in this National Assembly. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that you support this proposal and that we have a peaceful and in-depth discussion on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you very much. We will support the proposal of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament, Comrade Gantar, to hold a public debate on this. I think there are more than enough documents for such a public debate. The question is whether it is the political will to discuss this. Why am I saying that? Mr Podobnik and Mr Janša said yesterday: "It is no big deal that we will do the audit." However, this audit is to be carried out by the internal auditor of the Ministry of Environment and Space, who reports to Mr Podobnik. The internal audit to be carried out by the auditor reporting to Mr Podobnik will, of course, not be independent or may not be an independent audit. It is therefore necessary to discuss here how, contrary to the Public Finance Act without a contract, it is possible to pay work, how it is possible to pay works that have obviously not been done or have been done unprofessionally, and how it is possible, of course, in a situation that is actually incredible; we have Mr. Director of the company that is a member of the Civil Protection Staff, who starts performing intervention works, to indicate as a member of the Civil Protection Staff to his company that is practically owned and owned by PRO banks to carry out additional work, then Mr. Podobnik and Mr. Puh want to settle over the shoulders of Minister Bajuk with a reduction in the share of the State in the same company and then there will be payments of almost 270 million dollars in the 2006 budget burden. This is an explicit act of this government, it is a different philosophy, it is even the deception of Minister Podobnik, who at Odessa said: "Here I have a letter from Mr. Bembič, who says to settle myself". But he didn't read the last sentence. Mr Bembič wrote him a general settlement, but in this particular case: Mr Minister Podobnik, please consult Mrs Misa Markovic. And this, of course, explicitly, as Mr Podobnik's lawyer, advises on mediation. And Mr. Podobnik will carry out the mediation by decision of the Government. Here must come the President of the Government, we must have documents here, have an external audit and have a political debate on this. Or is it possible to follow philosophy first work will be done and then work will be paid. This is the story of settlement and payment to Mr Domn Zavrl under the projects of the Paediatric Clinic, this is the story of helicopters, and this is the story of the PUH. And these are the affairs that talk about nepotism, corruption, clientism, and this is something that needs to be discussed here. I will support the proposal of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am, I have to say, a little sad when I listen to some opposition Members who are actually a little cynical and under-appreciative about this issue from the Log accident under Mangart. Some of the comparisons used by some Members are actually offensive to those actors who have worked in this area night and day to protect nationals and property. The former Minister Kopač's statement that these works were not necessary is indeed a deception to the public. Its ILO website, 22.3.2001, in which we are actually saying: "The third conclusion is that the safety of the village is constantly connected and that the material continues to be taken away, because the longer the shaft is deep, the greater security will be. Therefore, work should not be suspended even if there is a change in the transfer between ministries. Time is very precious to us..." and so on. It's on the MOP website. In fact, she was professional at that time in some way, because she did not know such a great natural phenomenon and she did not know it well in the initial stage. And we know that all of us who were in, I'd say, the intervention times were working together. Therefore, the method of action has not been defined, as some of you are now moving forward and some contracts should be signed. Neither did the beach puh order to be activated, nor did the MOP, thank God! However, I must say that it has been uniform all the time, that it is necessary, for the first time, to drain the icy and palavian waters on the beach to the greatest extent possible, and thus to increase the stability of the beach. All this work was done by the PUK and certain mountain rescuers in a very difficult situation. The second point on which the profession has always agreed to empty the shafts in the Upper Log to the maximum extent possible and thereby ensure sufficient accumulation to achieve as low as possible a plasma forehead and a sufficiently sparse space at the time of restarting the beach. And the third point they agreed was to put a warning system on the beach to ensure evacuation in the event of a re-launch. Until then, this was also done physically for the performers of the works in this stream. Other public services, electrical, road services and similar services were also performed by March in April as public intervention works. The same was true of the RUH. I don't know in which case this public service would be exempted. Last but not least, in the case of the transfer between the Ministry, between the ILO and the MORS or the Civil Protection Headquarters, it is in the transmission record in point 4.4. the task is to continue in the future the activities of the formation of the Strait of the Predele and of the Koritnica and so on. Therefore, a letter was sent by the PUK to 4.1. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] at the ILO, where they ask about the legal basis and follow-up. [[...]] However, there was no response from the ILO. Such a basis exists and we do not support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Guilty, please. You have the floor. But first, Mr. Sok. It hasn't been a minute, you know, so he won't give you the camera. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will not support the proposal of the Non-Aligned Members and Members. In fact, I'm gonna stick to waiting for the minister to get what he wants. This is, however, a quality review of all these procedures will be carried out. On this occasion, however, I must also say that when this happened in Logo under Mangart, the New Slovenia Group visited this place of great tragedy among the first to visit it, and it was very bad there. I think Minister Digger saw all this, too. People were living in one big uncertainty, very afraid of what could happen, and even from that point of view, or at that point in time, it is possible to explain why these procedures might have taken place very quickly, without all of our bureaucratic procedures and so on. The work, as we have learned, has been done and the revision of this procedure will show whether there have been any mistakes. At that time, we will also decide how to proceed in the New Slovenia Group. Until then, we feel that we do not need this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you for saying that again. I would have continued where I had been interrupted before. 4.1. the operator of part of the PUK sent a notice to the Ministry of the Environment and Space that it is continuing and requesting clarification or notification of the new Beach Act. The same letter also went from the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to protect the nature of Nova Gorica, where they could not interpret the new law, which had not annulled the previous water legislation in any of the transitional provisions. That is why they sent a letter of 19.1. to the recovery sector of natural and other accidents at the ILO, which is still in the same composition, irrespective of the opinion of some members of the opposition that the members have been replaced, Mr Majes is still the chair of this committee. And this question was: "In view of the different positions, please immediately issue a written explanation or conclusion to establish the Water Act and the Civil Protection Act, which deals with safety and security, in which case the provisions of the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of the Beach of the Condensation in the Municipality of Bovec and the Beaches of a Large Volume..." and so on, "and issue a written instruction or decision to terminate or continue with the Parts on the Beach of the PUK". He has not received an answer to this and has to carry out his duties under previous legislation. No matter what, it's 12.1. The Ministry of Environment and Space, the department of the Beach Commission, transmitted to the PPH on 12.1.2001 this disputed period, which you state, a request that the PUK provide data to obtain a loan from the Development Bank of the Council of Europe to remedy the consequences of the terrestrial beach over Logo under Mangart. In any event, the ILO did not consider that the RUH was illegal in this area and did its work properly. That is why I do not support this debate, but I support the proposal to hold a debate on this issue at the Committee on the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I myself will not support this proposal as proposed by colleagues of the Non-Aligned Members. For the first time that the Commission has been set up, is running and will certainly give its results, so little tolerance, ladies and gentlemen, is no harm in this National Assembly either. Secondly, Mr Squeakl, as I know, the story will be on the agenda of your committee or our Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance. There you will have the opportunity as chairman to look at all this from the front and back, what was and was not. The Committee on Environment and Space will also address this issue within the framework of the National Assembly. Three committees at a time, I hope they find out what happened and what didn't happen. And if you've listened a little bit to the colleague of Mayor Bovec and our Member, those of us who have experienced this story and things like that, we know what it looks like. And this case was also in 2005, in August, when storms or raging watercourses did tremendous damage in Posavje, in the congregation of Sevnica, billions of dollars, and at that time we did not ask about the interventions, the contract, the public order, who would work, at what price, and so on, and we were saving the day and night that was given to rescue ourselves at that time. And that's intervention. And at that time, ladies and gentlemen, you're probably going back to what would have happened if it had been, and so on. You know what, some of us who have experienced this, thank God that you are not all such cases, after all the revision will show and all the follow-up procedures, whether anything has been done wrong or not. A little patience, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Once again, let us be clear: the intervention measures in the context of protection and resolution at the time of the natural disaster and have never been directly questioned, have never been challenged and have been paid to this company in this case. There's no dilemma about that. The only problem is: how and when the PSC is supposed to have moved from measures relating to intervention in protection and resolution and those relating to the provision of public water management services in the winding-up part of the area - and another matter needs to be seen - into the project and rescue of the rehabilitation project or the rehabilitation project. That's a key question. And this issue between experts and during the PUK, during the lead of the PUK, obviously, and experts or at the ILO were not resolved. And that's the main core of the dispute. That's what we're talking about, and this needs to be cleared up. I'm not giving any pre-trial rulings. I have been involved in a number of protection and rescue and rescue measures, and I know that there are very sensitive things that you have to do quickly sometimes, and sometimes you have to act and then wonder whether you have done the right thing or not. But we won't talk about it. But that's what we're trying to clear up. So once again, it would be very good if we didn't drag the locals of Log under Mangart into this. It's not about them, it's about whether the work that was paid was transparent, and whether someone by chance also earned something that might not belong to him because of the hardship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u229	Members of the ruling coalition, if all is well, why not discuss it? If it's all right, why don't we have a general discussion? By then, there will be one month, in the meantime, a meeting of the Commission on Budgetary Control, a meeting of the Committee on the Environment and, of course, a logical, resulting debate in the National Assembly. This is procedurally allowed, this is what Members of Parliament, the Non-Aligned Members elected here propose. If it's all right, why don't you want to discuss it? The point is, there is no doubt that the intervention works have been paid. And there is no doubt that, of course, it is not clear what is with the remedial parts. I will say this if the State Advocate counseled the Ministry with all the information available, is my only question to Mr. Sponik: Why did you not follow the counsel of the Advocate General? And the answer is very clear. Because, of course, then there would be no settlement, then the Director of the PUK would get nothing, as in other similar cases, he would lose in court. Mr Minister Podobnik had unused resources in the State budget in 2006 and went to a rapid settlement. Gentlemen, in the National Assembly, we have used a difficult situation several times in Slovenian public, helicopters, helicopters, helicopters, life-saving, there is a call for proposals, there is a pure lack of reality. And then the government takes over the ashes and says, "We broke our own law." A pediatric clinic, a very similar story, and now here we have again the problem of people in Log under Mangart, where they try to say, above all, populistally, it's right that we paid someone 270 million. It's not right. As Mr. Majes has said, Mr. Horvat has irrigated these people in Corinth, needlessly, and this money has no reason to go [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I come from Soča myself, and I assure you that this is a rather painful discussion for people there. In particular, when there is doubt that the money that is spent from the point of view of the people living there is modestly measured to deal with the consequences of various accidents, is spent in an irrational way. I'm talking about doubts, Mr. Guilty, not about whether that's true. I will therefore support this debate in this National Assembly on the basis of the question of the Member State. This cannot be replaced by an audit. The audit is a process that runs elsewhere and discussions are under way in the National Assembly, and one of these institutes is one. Of course, I sincerely expect to be supported by colleagues coming from Tolmin and Bovec, so as not to lead a discussion on who is behind the scenes. In particular, I expect this because we had in a similar situation when the earthquake after the second earthquake was in its greatest course, on request, I will say, so to speak, a Member for one session of the National Assembly, not at the point of the question being sent, but virtually even a meeting. This debate was useful, and many things became clear. And I don't understand the duality of saying, "We can't discuss this issue." But when it came to the issue of the earthquake and other people led by the earthquake, we were able to hold this debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Your Honor! I will not support this proposal for a very simple reason, because next week there will be a meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space to address this issue. If everything is lucky, then at least some of the results will already be audited and we will be able to draw up these results, but if there are no results yet, there will be another meeting. But for this session, next week, there will be so much documentation that we have already obtained, and we will also talk about what was going on there, in very detail, and I am sure that the proponents of this proposal, which we will now vote on, will say for themselves that it would be better for you not to have this discussion, because there will be many things that you do not expect. The second week will be at least one opportunity, one on the Committee on the Environment and the place where we will address this subject very widely. But if it turns out later and you want it, we can still have it, and the review will do its part.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you. There's more to it than that. [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Janez Podobnik to the question of Mr Jelinčič Plmenite's parliamentary question on projects in the framework of the construction of transport infrastructure. We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 45. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mrs Majda Širca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health of Magi. Mr Andrey Bručana asked Mrs Majde Shirca about her contribution to compulsory health insurance. Application for explanations on behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you. I'm not saying that Mr Bručan didn't bother last night, but the more he tried, the more he fell in, the more he said, the more he opened up the questions I asked him in my question. Since I think we've been here three times, it's only right to restore it. This is a question that affects 30,000 self-employed, self-employed craftsmen, cultural workers, top athletes, farmers and others who, according to the new one, will have to pay about 35 and 34% more for compulsory health insurance, and all others who participate in copyright fees that will increase by 6% in the future. I asked about this proposed solution, which has already been modified somewhere, but not somewhere. Certainly not in the field of culture. The Minister has given very vague answers to the need for an absolutely more in-depth discussion. After all, he himself admitted that it was a problem that was quite extensive. If we are already concerned with development and creativity today, as one of the primary principles in addition to confidence and increased creative approaches, then surely such a solution will not contribute to this creativity that is being discussed and pledged by the new Minister Žiga Turk, especially given that the authors' fees will also receive a higher tax if I sum up the grave. Something that Mr Janša has not promised us and which he once said there will be no tax increases in the future. This is about greater participation. I am not talking about direct tax, but I am talking about increasing compulsory health insurance rates for self-employed persons of 34% by 30,000 people in Slovenia who are creators.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you. Apparently, it's a desire for a personal explanation. Check-in is on, please. Mr. Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. It seems very strange to me that we are discussing something that is not yet, because, as you know, this law is only in preparation. If necessary, we will be able to have a general debate on it. Minister Bručan made it quite clear that this law was actually in coordination for over a year and a half, there were over 22 negotiations. The Economic Social Council has agreed with these solutions, which are already covered. Similarly, those things are still open, to which the proposer points. Here, in fact, demagogically deceiving that there is an increase in tax is not right. Tax or contribution is a big difference for me. Here to discuss in this way, there is no other than to exercise populism. When necessary, when this law is ready for consideration, we will be able to discuss these solutions in general. And then it's time. As I said, it's pointless to discuss something that isn't today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u239	However, I think it is necessary to hold a debate because it is far from different tax and contribution. The effect is the same, the net revenue is lower. Mr Janša promised when he gave a tax gift that there would be no new burdens. Look what just came into play today. Not only will the contributions of 30,000 self-employed persons increase by around 35%, 40%, but also hundreds of Slovenian farmers will have 40% lower revenues from the state budget. And all of this reduces net income. I think it is right to discuss this in the National Assembly precisely because the Minister's intention is to include this in the financial plan of the Health Insurance Institute. These figures are included in the financial plan of the Institute of Health Insurance. Since we are not directly discussing this financial plan, even Mr Fakin is not to be asked how he will lead the insurance company, the only place to discuss this issue in this National Assembly is before this law comes, if we are to keep the Prime Minister of the Government on the promise that there will be no new charges. Of course, a mandatory contribution is in Slovenian legislation, a duty, a compulsory duty, which is collected by Dursa and collected by 30 thousand self-employed persons. And that's what we're here to discuss. Not the effects on these 30,000, but the credibility of the government, which said there would be no new obligations, no new duties.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you. Any other wishes? We don't vote. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Zvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar, to the question of mags. Milana M. Cwickle, on the preparation and adoption of documents for the implementation of European projects from the financial perspective 2007-2013. On behalf of the MP? [[It's not.]] Then I open an application for reasons in my personal name. Check-in is on. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u241	It has been a late hour, and of course many of you have not attended the debate, so allow me to introduce you to what the problem is. [[...]] Many Members, Members, especially those who are mayors, mayors and so on, this has direct effects on the budgets of the municipalities in 2007 and 2008. In 2007 and 2008, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said it is available in the budget of the European Union for Slovenia, EUR 707 million. In order for this money to come to Slovenia, it is necessary to adopt programmes, to make calls, someone has to win the tenders, work has to be started, work has to be done. Once the works are done, the contracts are reviewed and the money comes from the European Union. The normal time for this is on average between one and two years. We're March 5th, the government doesn't have a program or a cut. In the balance sheet, there is no guarantee in the budget of this money. The government says the rebalancing will be adopted sometime in the middle of this month. It is only in September, October 2007, that you can expect the first invitations to tender, so the first parts will be approved somewhere next spring. During the term of office of this Government under the 2007-2013 programme, the Slovenian state budget for cohesion funds will not come to Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Not a single euro. [[...]] This is a serious question because the Bank of Slovenia has pointed to this. As a result, the deficit is higher in 2007 and 2008. This is a matter for discussion in the National Assembly. Mr Jagar, Mr new Minister Turk, Minister Bajuk do not recognize these problems. There will be a Portuguese syndrome called a major deficit due to the delay in European money collection. And this, of course, will be the work of the new governments in 2009 and beyond. I propose that, because of our own interests, we hold this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-06-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr. Gulic? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 25th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
