ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats and calm down. Thank you. Everyone's welcome again. I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Miran Jerič, mag. Majda Spending from 3 p.m. on and Mr. Boyan Starman. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the first item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 17th item and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and the representative of the Council to the 34th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 8 June 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. On Friday, 15 June 2007, the Group of Non-Aligned Members submitted a proposal for an extension of the agenda of the 29th meeting of the Assembly with a view to examining the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will discuss the opinion submitted under the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. You received the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration under agenda item 34a by letter dated Friday, 15 June 2007. Therefore, the assembly on the proposal of the Group of Non-Aligned Members for the enlargement of the agenda will not decide. We are therefore moving on to a timetable. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 29th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda - this is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please take your seats! Thank you. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 25 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the Group and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the reply. But he can't ask any more questions. And please, Members of Parliament and Members, that you are paying attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within 2 minutes. However, the response may be completed for a maximum of 3 minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Education and Sport Dr Milan Zver, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Public Administration Dr Gregor Virant and Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Dr. Jure Zupan. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u3	Your Honors are here! Mr Janez Janša, you said a while ago to the media and Slovenian public that the opposition in the National Assembly, in Slovenian politics and in Slovenian society is nervous. Personally, I fear that it would be time that the nervous Slovenian state, that the Slovenian state is nervous to the form and content of the leadership you offer. According to my assessment, you have come to power with criticism of the past system, past governments through clientism, corruption and money laundering. But the fact is, Mr Janez Janša, that perhaps because you are not interested in the economic situation in this country, it is you and I will point to you to allow customerism, corruption, money laundering, in particular political friendship, the distribution of citizens within our country. That those who, on the one hand, show you all honor and miserable trust are rewarded. However, all those who do their work in a fair manner are punished by moving ever lower on the social performance or survival scale. Allow me to point out from this place that this part is very good in all likelihood based on your military education - lead, which is finally also evident from the daily newspaper reporting framework. Not long before that, I had seen with great sadness the article on the other hand entitled "The government has the support of SDS Members". The government has the support of SDS Members on the other side of the daily newspaper. Not long after this occurs in the media criticism or warning all those who blindly do not follow you that your policy has more than an active influence on daily reporting. On the other hand, all those Members who monitor individual matters daily see that only one moment is taken into account in the context of economic privatisation - a moment of partyness, a moment of kindness to you, Prime Minister Janez Janša. I am, of course, reminding you that you are the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I would like to point out what I consider to be most important, namely, within your Government, the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Finance approved the purchases of individual companies in the framework of privatisation, but the meetings of the Government take place in the form that the final tenderer chosen, that is, at the level of individual ministries, is not chosen. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]] Why? Because it belongs to the so-called independent group, not to you popular political parties and people. Allow me to conclude this basic work, Mr Janez Janša, you are the Prime Minister of the Government. [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u5	I'm very sorry, but in these five minutes or three minutes, I haven't heard a single question, so I have nothing to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u6	Do you want to complete the answer, although the question has not been asked? Here, I give you my word. Allow me, Mr. Pece, automatics require some waiting because you've exceeded your deadline. We'll wait until that required minute runs out. Here, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u7	I do not have to say that I am pleased that the technique is also influenced by current government policy. But despite this, honourable Members, I am particularly disappointed with the following sentence: I am very disappointed that you all know that the question in question has been announced in advance and that you have, of course, applauded the President of the Government, who has not answered the charges of the former Secretary of State that affect what is meant by democracy within our country. It's freedom of speech and freedom of thought. But we agreed to that, according to my assessment, the most lenient, low-level policy that can be guided and labeled as a totalitarian system. But let me ask you from this city, Mr Janez Janša, in the context of your conduct, which you have initially assured will take place without clientism, protection and money laundering. Why is it necessary, as long as individual ministries choose a future enterprise within the ownership structure, to delay and do damage to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only to individual regions, but in this case - I will say - to the region of Korea? I am talking about an RSCM case where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not fully approve and delay the business already concluded for more than three months. I would like to point out below: How can you, who have not long been the greatest fighter against corruption and customerism, allow the new construction of asphalt bases, although there is no legal basis for this? I'm talking about the Lenart case, which the Minister of Transport, Environment and Space will know very much. This is corruption and related persons in the field of SCT. And finally, let me ask you from this place: Mr. Janez Janša, wouldn't it be much more meaningful if you were dealing with domestic topics, with domestic topics of privatisation, sales and thus with the Republic of Slovenia, as if you were just introducing your totalitarian system into the framework of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u9	So, now, from this speech, there is no clear question that I cannot choose, so I will help the Member with what they have announced, namely, the Slovenian National Party has announced a question that reads: How is the sale of state property in real form in relation to the economic situation in Slovenia? So, as always, I have prepared data in relation to the question raised. And if the Member wishes to hear this information, I will be happy to present it. From what has been said before, however, I cannot draw any red or answerable questions at the best of my will and effort. As regards the sale of assets, the Government initially said that it would significantly reduce the share of the State in companies. A strategy has been adopted which is being implemented. For each individual case, it is always publicly known. Statistics are also known for the first years, especially when it comes to both parastatal funds, where this property is the most. Thus 37 investments were sold in 2005 to the Slovenian Compensation Company. In 2006, 55 of these investments were sold. This year, however, 60 more investments are planned to be sold. The pace is significantly higher than it used to be. All sales are transparent. Even with the Capital Society, it's a similar thing. In 2005, the company sold 34 investments, last year 54, by the end of this year 56 more. A strategy has been adopted which is being implemented. In addition to selling shares of both parastatal funds, the Government also withdraws from ownership of other companies. That's what you do with your mind. And as promised at the outset, at the end of this mandate, the share of the State in companies will be significantly lower than at the beginning of this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I will apply the rule or right of Article 264 of the Rules of Procedure. In all likelihood, Mr Prime Minister correctly notes that the state is withdrawing from ownership. But this property you know is owned by citizens and citizens. It is therefore not right for the government to withdraw at the expense of its friends. So that ownership that was built not only by my father, not only by my grandfather, but built by all those who were before us in this country, that the policy of Mr Janez Janša withdraws from this property at the expense of his client friends. And we all know who's sitting in here, that's how it is. In case someone intervenes in the context of the arrival of any honest buyer within the framework of each future sale, then the Government of Mr Janez Janša repeats his first call, repeats the second call.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u12	Mr Pece, this is not a procedural proposal, but it is a controversy that you well know that the Prime Minister can no longer be held accountable.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u13	Mr President, I have three minutes to explain the procedural proposal. Allow me, please! The Government of Mr Janez Janša repeats the first call, repeats the second call, repeats the third call, despite the fact that the first call was the most favourable customer, the second call was the most favourable customer and the third one. In the meantime, the rules change, and when the Dnevnik, the Ljubljana Diary publishes the matter, then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides, because it is not just their customer man as the buyer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides not to receive the umbrella stamp. So it's not going to be decided within the government. The same story is what I used to say when construction friends reach out to Lenart and despite all the long-term plans, acts, regulations, create a asphalt base, a shadow once this asphalt base allows. The stories about privatisation, according to your assessment, are well thought out. No, Mr. Janez Janša. This is purely a party privatisation, for the privatisation of the SDS within our country. And that's the fear I'm putting through this procedural proposal. The property currently owned by you is not created by you. "Try" to make a result or create a result that will allow operators to apply evenly for tenders. Those who are near you, and those who are not near you. But given that I have 10 seconds left, I ask Members and Members to allow the Slovenian National Party to vote tomorrow. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The opposition, whoever you want the proposal for a way to sell the state, our property is being debated in front of television cameras, in a transparent way, not to make it possible. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u14	Mr Pece, I suggest to you and all others who are taking advantage of the procedural proposal for controversy that, unless you hope to ask new questions or various burdensome claims in such a way that the accused can respond, then you should keep them to yourself. Mr Jožef Školč will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u15	Mr. Cuckoo, there I hear Comrade Zagorac wants a procedural question. I think the Rules of Procedure have an advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u16	Allow me also to announce that we will decide on the proposal by Mr Pečet, Mr Pečet, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Government's proposal for a proposal on his parliamentary question in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr. Zagorac, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hope you won't interrupt me. For when it comes to procedural matters, it is clear that within three minutes I must ask the question, and you, the President of the Government, the Minister or anyone, like it or not. So please, in the end, I will make a procedural proposal. The Prime Minister is a guest in this house. It seems to me that three years is long enough for someone to stop making excuses for what the past government has been doing or not to understand the question. After three years of misunderstanding, there is probably something wrong either with the country or with someone else. I think it is time to answer the specific questions with specific answers that we hear very rarely in this house when it comes to the first three questions put by Members. Therefore, Mr President, I think that the time has come when you are in the service of democracy, in the service of this country, in the service of the people living in this country, the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have come to warn the President of the Government after three years that it is not all the fault of the previous government that this government has had to do something and start answering specific questions in three years. But if she hasn't done anything, then let's say it in concrete terms, if she has what a man has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u18	Misuse of the rules of procedure. Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The President of the Government - I think - understands his victory in the parliamentary elections and the mandate then given to him by the National Assembly in a very worrying manner. The Authority understands the right and duty to subdue itself and, in its image, steals all spheres of political and public life. That's right. Mr President of the Government has managed to bring the National Assembly into line and is a voting machine for your decisions. You have managed to take over public RTV and you are working hard to influence other media as well. You're preparing a disassembly of higher education and research activities. You treat an owl as a personal toy. However, the decisions coming these days before the National Assembly and relating to justice have strengthened my conviction that you have assessed that the time has come for you to subordinate yourself to the third branch of power. How else can we understand these things that we have before us? A while ago, you withdrew the Law on the Appointment of Candidates for Judges of International Courts because the professional public fully resisted that the Government should take over what the President of the Republic and the National Assembly must do. I'm asking you: Are you prepared to give Mr. Sturm the same advice to remove those laws that prepare special judicial inspectors who would review the files and supervise the judge, possibly with the help of the police, in the fact that the professional public is rightly upset? The President of the Supreme Court and the former President of the Constitutional Court say that this is an ecclatan anti-constitutional act. I also ask you: Are you prepared to withdraw the Wage System Act, which was also repealed by the Constitutional Court? The provisions that we must adopt these days are once again such that there are prospects for judicial disputes, constitutional complaints and so on. Mr President of the Government, I believe that when it comes to the issue of justice [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] branches of authority urgently needed to listen to the Court of Justice, listen to the President of the Supreme Court and others in this area and not make an impression [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you so much for asking. It was more precise in writing: Why does the Government propose to the National Assembly to adopt amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, the Judicial Service, the State Attorney's Office and the State Prosecutor's Office by emergency procedure? The fact is that such conduct is also strongly opposed by the professional public. The professional public is a word that would be difficult to quantify in the form of a hundred percent or nineties people. There are always different views on different issues in the professional public. There was no case of anyone who could be considered qualified to be a professional public objecting to anything. Therefore, it is not possible for any solution to be coordinated for so long that all experts agree with it. In this case, the National Assembly would have no part because no law could be proposed. The government seeks to bring the solutions as much as possible into line. However, it cannot be difficult to reach agreement with everyone, since it is usually necessary to adopt laws also in order to introduce certain rules of the game that everyone must respect, including those that do not see any great personal benefits in this. By referring to an imaginary professional public, it is not an argument that would be a hundred percent and that could be pulled out of hand at any time. When it comes to a system of public sector wages, it is a very long story that this government has not started. The former have also sought to reach a system where professions would be comparable and where the same remuneration would be available for approximately equal work in the public sector. This is obviously a very difficult job, but progress has been made in this mandate. As regards differences with the Court of Justice concerning the salaries of judges, these are known, public. This has been debated virtually for several years. And it is not possible to expect that the positions here will be fully aligned. But now the government has found solutions that do not deprive anyone in the judicial branch of power. Nevertheless, they allow for a certain incentive effect in wage policy also on efficiency and quality of work. This, I think, is something that is in common interest and has nothing to do with the subjugation of any branch of power. As far as emergency procedures are concerned, they are governed by law. The government cannot propose a solution following an emergency procedure if the legal conditions are not met. Similarly, it cannot propose solutions following a reduced procedure. All these solutions are decided here in the National Assembly. Such proposals are used by the government when it comes to a quicker solution, after all the options in the debate have been exhausted, we come to the results that are needed. Otherwise, the urgency procedure in the Rules of Procedure would not have been defined. There are no hidden purposes in this regard. All laws will be discussed. The urgent procedure also allows for a thorough debate and I have no doubt that Members and Members will make further use of this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Scholch!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I do not know what has happened to you, Prime Minister, that you do not know and are not prepared to answer any question that you do not receive in writing. I do not know you, and such a prime minister, who is unable to answer a clear question about the topics at the current meeting of the National Assembly, does not deserve Slovenia. At least for the same things that we discuss at the current sitting and wetting ghosts, the President of the Government should have a clear position. This is not about the need to harmonise the entire professional public. You have against these proposals, both the Supreme Court, both the Council of Justice and the judiciary. These are three key associations, so to speak, which accompany this area. You're working against them and working with solutions that are subordinated to the judiciary. And my question, sir, was simple: Are you prepared, as in the case of any other law, to withdraw this proposal and to allow a normal debate within this time limit set by the Constitutional Court? The urgency of the procedure in this case was not necessary because we still have half a year to resolve it in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. The question is simple. If you want, I'll give it to you in writing and you'll answer it another time. But it'll be too late next time. We will find ourselves in a situation where the National Assembly will adopt solutions that will lead to conflicts. On the one hand, Minister Sturm says that the courts are overtaken by various disputes. And there are 1,200 disputes here because of you and because you don't listen to the people concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u25	Well, thank you for this additional question. Now, if these people you're talking about are always 100% right, then the Slovenian judiciary would have worked perfectly and there would have been a few hundred thousand judicial setbacks. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. The organization isn't ideal. Many solutions can be improved. This government is trying to do it. We have no intention of withdrawing these laws. If every time the opposition was against a solution, they would withdraw the laws, then they'd agree to the blockade itself. The debate in the so-called professional public took place for a long time. In part, the Constitutional Court intervened in the decision. What the Constitutional Court has decided differently, the Government respects and the solutions proposed are in line with this. A Member cannot say in advance that a solution is unconstitutional, because it is by itself that he places himself in the position of the Constitutional Court, which, if requested, will only be judged. The independence of the judiciary in Slovenia is guaranteed by the Constitution. Not the government, not the government majority, have no authority to change the Constitution. If anyone at any time thinks that ordinary legislation is applied to the constitutional domain, he or she may bring proceedings before the Constitutional Court. This has happened hundreds of times in previous mandates. It is happening now and this protection is ensured. As far as answering a specific question is concerned, I am also pleased to answer additional specific questions if they are raised. However, it is very difficult for me to answer the accusations, in which there are no specific questions and they are more or less self-inflicted. I would also like to draw attention to the practice of the previous term when the President of the National Assembly drastically prevented any issue that was not related to the topic which was announced in writing. I have been in the opposition for many years, and I have always been moved to ask only questions that we have announced in advance. So this surprise of yours surprises me a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the fact that what I am saying will also be documented by tomorrow's vote, I propose that it be decided, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, by the National Assembly, to hold a debate. In the context of this reasoning, I would tell the people who are clapping on the balcony and those who are listening to this gathered here that all my questions were about what was announced in Friday's record. Yes, a person’s error once does not mean that he should be ignored even when he is right. It's enough if all these people I'm talking about right now, Mr. Prime Minister, have a decision to make. If they erred in any of the judgments, it has not yet justified that they should never speak again. I'm going to illustrate that particular understanding of your winning position, which is stifling democracy and subjugates anyone who thinks differently than you. That is also why it is necessary to have a debate in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Školč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Now the question will be asked by the Prime Minister of the Government. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u29	Members and Members, Mr President, Minister, Ministers! Mr. President of the Government! When you took over the government control of Slovenia, you were full of promise of a new route, a different Slovenia. But now you can see that you are creating a criminal Slovenia to create minds and to strengthen control over everything and everyone. And that's what your formerly closest associates are up against. They, like Slovenia, have also overlooked. It no longer agrees with the logic of the pyramid structure of power, which, regardless of the price, is subordinated to the economy, the media, public servants, the judiciary, the repressive authorities and intelligence services. Because of the logic of power, you and your government are falling from affair to affair. The Mercator affair, the Helicopter Transport affair, the pediatric clinic and the Zavrl affair defended by Mr Simic, the Puh affair, the holding of Slovenian power plants, takeovers, damage to small shareholders, the armory affair. And as a confirmation of such false methods of taking over power in the economy, a letter from the former Secretary of State and then your response to the threat of the use of classified information. I ask you, and this is announced: Do ministers of health, the environment, finance, the economy still have your support? Are these actions appropriate? And if they have your support, why? And about the eyes. What will you, what will the Government do to address the harmful consequences of these affairs, these alleged illegal corruptions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you for asking. It was properly set up, announced and also read. It's an alleged illegal act, as you said. It is somewhat premature to carry out judgments and to ask what sanctions will be applied on the basis of these assumptions. This government has promised to work differently. He's working differently. The results are different than they used to be. It's verifiable. Therefore, there is no need to argue because data and statistics talk about this and there is no problem in this regard. The opposition always has the opportunity to use the instruments it has under the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure as a true Member of these affairs and alleged illegality. She did it twice. There were two interpolations. Judge for yourself whether they were victorious or not. And the government doesn't have any problems with that. It belongs to all kinds of control, including the economy. Even where it's never been before. At the beginning of the mandate, the opposition was offered to recruit representatives to the supervisory boards of public enterprises or companies where the country has a majority share. In this way, the opposition has proposed more than ten of its members to the most important supervisory councils, including the two parastatal funds. And he's got firsthand information on what's going on out there. So that if something's wrong, you can use the tools that are available to it first. In any case, it is not possible to say that the Government is closing, working intransparency or that it is unsupervised or that it is being defended. She set up her own instruments that you use to make this happen. When we proposed in the previous term when the Rules of Procedure were adopted that the opposition had a majority in the supervisory bodies, the then government coalition was against and it was not possible to accept it would have been called the old one turned. And when there's a second government coalition, it's possible to accept that. Allegedly, the government's claims to avoid it are unconvincing. Just what happened in the National Assembly in recent weeks proved this. Only after the opposition became second was it possible that things had changed or that the government coalition had become second. So, all the ministers working in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have my support, otherwise we wouldn't be working in this government. However, whenever illegal conduct is proved to anyone, sanctions will, of course, be followed. Not because of that, as you correctly wrote yourself, but because of that, you only assume.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u33	Well, it's true you're doing something different. It is true that the results, economically, after at least 12 years on so many bases, are not poor. But, Mr President, do you not think that after two and a half years you should not take some objective responsibility for the negative effects of these affairs? Helicopters, the losses were covered by members of AMD societies. CAD, Mercator. The loss of one pension will be borne by all pensioners. A similar story, some 200 million missing from some Russian business. Maybe that's why you didn't go visit a few days ago. The pediatric clinic, a quarter of a million euros, your Mr. Zavrl and Mr. Strah were taken away from the pediatric clinic. And when the tax inspector alerts him, fire him twice. And Mr. Bajuk, apparently you're still defending him. And also your Andrej from Štajerska presented himself for Radio Slovenia as the President of the Supervisory Board of Slovenian Power Plants Minister Vizjak allowed Mr Zagozno to make an expensive, unnecessary purchase for a few ten million euro shares of Drava power plants from one of the participants in the talk on Mercator, which you led. And the recorder was a lady, an ex-secretary of state. If you can't talk about all this, at least talk about it: What the European Commission says, why Slovenia is not among those ten European countries that could make good use of the good times for the good of all, but not to take advantage of very much [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Is there a group of people who are close to you? [[...]] So why don't you take action and take an objective responsibility?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr President, please1
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u35	However, the Member of Parliament has moved on, but he is still the same joker he used to be, so that he always makes us feel good. Here are the mixed things that the European Commission has accepted with the things that it has dreamed of and the things that it read in a newspaper, and in various things, in different combinations. So it's very hard to answer that. If we are with the European Commission, it is the European Commission that has found that Mercator's shares have not been sold. And it's written black on white. And yet, instead of insinuating yourself in this hall in this regard and many times apologizing, you still say something that is not true. When it comes to helicopter transport, I explained 10 times that the government had two legal bases and that the mistake it had made had been corrected. Although I could insist that she acted legally and that would be true. This has never happened before. Now, when it comes to the sale of state shares in all these supervisory councils that you've discussed, there are also representatives of the opposition. I didn't hear any of them object. I think there's a member of your party sitting in the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. If there was anything wrong there, I should let you know, because he also controls the management in Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u37	I propose, in accordance with paragraph 246, that we discuss this humorous performance and the humorous response. What's interesting is, of course, in my own way, I'm going to say the opposition's style of "stress" the falscules of deception. Let's say something about Mercator. You at Mercator, of course, said that you had no influence on business and consequently on taking over the work by politics. But now Mrs. Kosem's letter says otherwise. He's talking about pressure, customerism, corruption. With regard to Mercator, the European Commission said that based on information from Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško, they were not linked. However, the European Commission did not say that it was right for Mrs Kosem to confirm that Mercator should be sold because the stock value would fall from 38 000 to no place. The stock value has increased. This is why you gave a large gift to someone associated with you. Similarly to the apparent sales of the Slovenian steel industry. I would like, of course, to hold a debate and that you may confirm in this debate that you have nothing to do with these affairs, that you are merely conducting meetings of the Government, which sometimes makes a mistake and what a stupid sale. Then I don't have a problem with that. But I don't think so. Therefore, I also call on the Anti-Corruption Commission to look at your assets balance sheet and with you connected persons to report on any unusual changes in these balance sheets at home or abroad. However, I propose that you suggest to your Members that tomorrow evening, even if it is late, they confirm this procedural decision in order to discuss this with a sense of humor or less jokingly. It's about your credibility, Mr. Jansha. It is also about the credibility of the President of the Government and the credibility of someone who intends to chair the European Union in the next first half of the year. The debate on these issues is therefore important and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Cwickel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jože Tanko will now put the question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Slovenia is undoubtedly in a very good economic situation and we can safely say that this is the best in all its history. At the end of 2006, we expected very good economic and public financial indicators. Economic growth 5.2%. We have reached almost 84% of the European Union's GDP measured by purchasing power. Employment increased by 1.3%, productivity by 4%, added value by 5.3%. Success is so much greater because we achieved such good results in the time before the euro was taken over, when we implemented economic policies to meet the Maastricht criteria. The country's public debt was 27.8% of GDP at the end of the year, 1.4% deficit and 2.5% inflation at the end of the year. For the results achieved, we received a number of congratulations from abroad, and when it seemed almost impossible to do better, we were thrilled by the news of 7.2% of economic growth in the first quarter of this year. It is very important that the high economic growth to which the high growth in investment and exports is most important is healthy. The very high export growth, half of which is co-created by small and micro enterprises, is proof that the competitiveness of Slovenian companies is increasing. It is similar in the field of tourism. The increasing number of nights and the revenues of tourism activities are favourable. Wages are rising, living conditions are improving, and the risks of poverty remain among the lowest in the EU. Unemployment under the ILO methodology was only 5.7% in the first quarter. In many activities, Slovenian companies face a shortage of labour, which means the need to increase the number of permits for foreign workers. Due to high investment activities, growth is expected to be high in the future. If, at the beginning of the mandate, we set ourselves the goal of making economic and social reforms conditional on achieving average European development in the 10th years, we could achieve this objective much earlier with such good economic growth. There are many reasons for optimism, according to what has been said. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you: What do you think are the main reasons why the black and threatening forecasts of ministers of the former government - some of us are also going through parliamentary benches - have not come true, but are the results very good? So what is the reason why Slovenia is so successful? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. President, please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u41	So if we continue in the form of the previous question of the Member States, we would say that this is the result of all these affairs. This obviously drives economic growth, if that were the case. If someone were to evaluate Slovenia only after what we had heard before, he would wonder unknowingly what must be done to ensure that the country is successful and to copy false patterns. But these contradictions are part of the parliamentary folklore always and everywhere where the government is the majority and the opposition. And we don't burden ourselves with that. If they were burdened, then it would be too little time for those measures implemented by the Government in the last part of the mandate, which allowed the environment for economic development in Slovenia to become more friendly, to carry out the many reforms we announced at the outset, and to do so on the basis of a strategy adopted at the beginning of this mandate. At a time when the European Union adopted the so-called Lisbon Strategy in 2000, many people in Slovenia smiled at the need to be pragmatic, not to have visions that cemeteries are full of illusions, we heard that no long-term planning was necessary. Of course, the sobriety came. The European Union welcomed it in 2000. It started with more strategic planning, and in 2005 Slovenia joined in this way by adopting the development strategy. A package of economic and social reforms has also been adopted on this basis. To date, almost three quarters of the major measures in this package have been implemented and, of course, these measures have also produced these results. I recall the question raised by the former Prime Minister of the Government in June 2005, who also moved to another party at that time. At that time we had 2.3% of economic growth in the first quarter, and this government, which had barely received the responsibility of managing the country, was accused by the former Prime Minister of causing such low economic growth, that it was fully responsible for such low growth and that we were facing a disaster. The fact is that the first quarter of 2005 could not have been the result of the new government's actions, since it only swore in December of the previous year. That growth was a result of everything that was accumulated until then. Among other things, we have missed tax reforms, the negative consequences of which we have completely eliminated in the past year. From the perspective of reforms, it is the release of the tax screw and the simplification of the tax system that is individually seen as the most important measure that has contributed to greater economic growth, to the increase in exports to date in the highest degree of optimism in the economy or the economic climate, and consequently to the lowest level of unemployment and development in many subsectors throughout the country. In addition to reducing taxes and simplifying tax procedures, hundreds of bureaucratic barriers that choked the economy and also public services were eliminated at that time. A new organisation or new framework for the organisation of the economy has been adopted. A number of potentials have been released, which were previously caught somewhere for waiting for the necessary decisions and strategies. The result is 7.2% economic growth in the first quarter, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] The average economic growth in the first quarter of the European Union was 3.2%. [[...]] The average economic growth in the European Monetary Union, where we are already members, is 3%. Slovenian growth is more than once more than the average in both the European Union and the European Monetary Union. These are the key reasons why we record these results. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] We'll keep working. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you. Please don't express any of your views. Of course, peace is required here. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mrs Breda Pečan will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! I would like to ask Mr Iztok Jarc a few questions about the functioning of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and the Agency for Agricultural Markets for agri-biological processing. First, I ask: What measures have you taken, Mr Minister, to ensure the transparency of the operation of the Fund, in particular in preventing the possibility of customerism and corruption in the allocation of agricultural land for leasing? Have you instructed your co-workers at the Ministry to check the economic and prudentity of the use of agricultural land that the Fund has leased? For the first two questions, I'd like to explain why I'm asking them. In the environment from which I come, it is generally known that agricultural land owned by the Fund is one of the most desirable goods. And the pressure on workers and workers to allocate specific land to precisely defined individuals for hire is exceptional. Although the lease charged by the fund is two to three times higher than anywhere else in Slovenia. Certain persons who have been working in harmony with it since its inception and who have already been disciplined in the past, are now doing their former work again in the same area as they did years ago and are repeating the same practices and using the same methods as before. Persons who work in harmony allow the tenants to do little or no work on the leased land. The tenants deliberately obstruct other tenants and even the owners of agricultural land so that they cannot safely access their land. As far as I know, Fund employees should cancel the lease in such a case. However, since it is a reputable and, above all, an influential and loud member of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, they do not seem to hope for it. That's why I'm asking you: What are you going to do or what have you already done, Mr. Minister, to prevent such practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u44	Sir, Istok Jarc, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for that question. Following an inquiry at the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and at the ACPRP, the following would be indicated. In principle, transparency or transparency of the lease is guaranteed in the Agricultural Lands Act itself. In fact, under this law, any offer for hire must be published on the notice board of the competent administrative unit and, in addition, on the Internet of the national eGovernment portal. The basic criteria for choice are also laid down by law and are essentially preferable to neighbors or farmers. However, with a view to clarifying the procedures for the management of agricultural land and taking into account the request of the Court of Auditors, the Fund adopted a specific Regulation in 2006 on the purchase of farms and agricultural land owned by the Republic of Slovenia and in the management of the KZGRS Fund. This Regulation lays down in more detail the procedure, criteria and conditions for the purchase of agricultural land. According to the Fund, this Regulation should also help to increase transparency in this area. As far as the rent is concerned, these are determined at the annual price, where the individual quality categories are different. However, prices in Slovenia should not in principle be different. On the basis of this data, I cannot confirm that the rent, for example, not Primorskie, would be higher than elsewhere. But, of course, they can be different cadastral classes. As far as your statement on the specific case is concerned. I don't know that. In principle, however, the tenants - it happens - may or may not even process land, but it is in line with its policy that after the sampling model, each regional exposure of the fund on the ground each month must inspect 5% of all the land the fund leases. Where infringements of the provisions of these leases occur, the lessee shall be invited to carry out remediation within a specified period. If there is no rescue, the fund has the right to cancel the contract. According to information from the Fund, such cases - so to speak - have also occurred. As far as the statement or control concerning the processing by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development is concerned, it could be concluded here, for the first time, that the legal basis for this control is already in the European regulation itself, which covers the implementation of the common agricultural policy. You have at least three types of controls under this Regulation. First, you have administrative control, where all data entered is checked. Then you have the so-called on-the-spot check, in the field carried out by an authorised agency and at least 10% of these areas must be inspected. Subsequently, there is also a so-called supercontrol or post-control which is carried out for this authorised domestic or foreign audit. Of course, individual derogations can also occur here. This has happened in the past. In fact, it is up to us to actually prepare the system so well that it will be as few as possible. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you. The next one will ask the question. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u47	Mr. Secretary! I'm grateful for that answer. But it's normal. The Minister can't know every detail. I'd like to ask you: To the extent that I will provide you with a list of all the comments, complaints and warnings from the owners of agricultural land, which, in particular, in individual cases are more or less always one and the same person makes it impossible to rent, despite these 30 days when the invitation to do so, we all know that by law it is so, but in practice things are very strange? And second. If I deliver you photos of those lands for which millions of tolars have been paid, and things are growing up that people who don't know very well what they're supposed to be don't know that anything is growing there - I'm curious - will you do anything about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u49	So, of course, I will also take a closer look at these cases and discuss them with my co-workers in accordance with my mandate. I would also like to inform you that the Fund is currently working on a new systematisation. On the basis of this new systematisation, it will also be possible to rotate workers on the ground and possibly to remedy any shortcomings that have so far been possible from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! On 18 December 2006, the Defence Committee received a report by the Ministry concerning the mobile military hospital Role2, which states, inter alia: "The Slovenian army will continue to operate in 2007 at the General Hospital Murska Sobota after the final takeover of Role2." 28.5.2007 says in a report from the Ministry: "After a thorough examination of the infrastructure options and the concept of the conversion of Role2 to Role2 LM, General Maistra's military station in Maribor is selected for a peaceful location. The new location will be filled with equipment and personnel." So, I want to know: Since when has the location in Murska Sobota become inadequate, since it has been chosen precisely on the basis of meeting all the necessary criteria and conditions, from the willingness of the hospital management to cooperate, the readiness of the local community, the hospital also provides a secondary level of health care and has general surgical care, it has been deemed appropriate in short? By the way, even in April following the examination of the Role2 hospital, members of the Ministry were assured that the deadline would be extended at least until autumn. How long will the hospital stay in Murski Sobota? It's because it's just the equipment that's been delayed. Well, now we see that if I sum up, the hospital will either be moved to Maribor and will be used there for civilian purposes. Training of personnel will take place again. What has already been done in Murska Sobota and other activities to achieve the final operational capacity instead of making the hospital operational in Murska Sobota now that it is in operation and in accordance with forecasts at least by autumn. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Why did the Ministry of Defence decide to move the hospital Role2 from Murska Sobota to Maribor despite the fact that the General Hospital Murska Sobota met all the conditions, obligations and also expressed interest in the extension of the contract? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u53	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! I am very sorry that such a decision had to be made. This is the real decision to move Rolle 2 mobile hospital. I must thank you for your good cooperation with the General Hospital Murska Sobota, which actually meets all the conditions and criteria and could actually work very well together. I must say, I was very happy when I was with the President of the country, the Commander-in-Chief, at the sight of this mobile hospital, and we expected this mobile hospital to function at any time. But the months ran and nothing happened. However, when I asked why the mobile hospital was still not working, I did not get any clear answers from those responsible. That is why, in March of this year, I decided to set up a working group to examine what is actually wrong with this mobile hospital. And the working group, which was composed of experts, found that this mobile hospital was not at all suitable for the Slovenian Army. This is a mobile hospital with a brigade and not a battalion. Furthermore, this working group also notes that inadequate medical equipment has been obtained. That the medical equipment which has been supplied does not, for example, meet Slovenian standards or even the Slovenian Army does not need it or even does not work. That is why I have asked the working group to advise me on what we can do with this capacity. However, I must make it clear and clear that the previous minister had concluded the contract to purchase this hospital. So, the previous government. I must also say that the Internal Auditor notes that this purchase was very untransparent when compared to purchasing armor, where you know that we had five meetings of the Defence Committee, where the Court ruled on this purchase and found no irregularities. In addition, I must say that we have not spent a single euro on armoured personnel for the time being. However, we have created certain jobs or are being created in Šostanje. This purchase, however, spent €9 million on some capacity that is not actually working. That is why the working group had the task of examining what we could do with this hospital and of reshaping it in such a way that it could also be used by the Slovenian Army. And in fact, the task force advised us to turn this hospital into a mobile hospital for battalion purposes. However, it will be necessary to obtain another million euro of medical equipment, as the corresponding medical equipment has not been procured at all in previous purchases, or has been procured in the amount of EUR 600,000, of which EUR 700,000 is inadequate, which is not in accordance with the standards in force in Slovenia. That is why we will now continue this work of transforming this mobile hospital for the needs of the battalion and that is why we will move it to the Rudolf Maister military station, because it is also adequately secured there and is also a favourable infrastructure. However, I must say that discussions are under way with the Maribor hospital, where we will try to establish everything necessary for this hospital to function. According to the goals of the Union, then this hospital must be fully operationally capable. In 2009 we somehow anticipate that we will achieve this goal. I must say that in connection with this purchase, I have also initiated appropriate procedures for the conduct of the forecasting procedure led by the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana. As I say, because in this purchase, which was very imprudent and inadequate, there is an irregularity; I would like the competent authorities to investigate why it went. For these reasons, a mobile hospital in Murska Sobota cannot function despite the fact that the hospital meets all the criteria and conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Slavinac, would you like a refill? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u55	Yes, of course I want a supplement. Look, there is no way I can be satisfied with this answer, Mr. Secretary-General. I'm asking you a very simple question: Why did you move the hospital from Murska Sobota to Maribor? You answer me about whether it is suitable for the Slovenian Army and how it was purchased. Did she suddenly become suitable for the Slovenian Army when she was moved from Murska Sobota to Maribor? Because you stated that the hospital was not suitable for the Slovenian Army. Second thing. The hospital was already purchased at the start by offering services to the civilian population at the Slovenian Army and will also be ready for protection and rescue. Such a response in Pomour makes it difficult to rid ourselves of the feeling that you are treating us as less valuable citizens. So Murska Sobota and Pomurje were good as long as the hospital had to be trained and, of course, also trained, now that the hospital could be useful. Now that it can be operational, it must go to Maribor. I don't see any professional argument in your answer. Therefore, it is very difficult for me to get rid of the feeling that this decision is political and not professional. You mentioned the arrangements with the hospital directors yourself. And we all know who the hospital director is in Maribor. And that really makes it so much harder to get rid of the feeling that it's a political decision. At the same time, when you say the hospital is too big, you're planning some additional investments. I hope they're not as untransparent as they were when you bought those armored men. So, Mr. Secretary-General. Why is one hospital in Murski Sobota or Murska Sobota no longer good and has to be moved to Maribor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I must say that the previous minister made a wrong purchase and that it was clearly a political decision to purchase a mobile hospital costing EUR 9 million, but we know that a mobile hospital costs EUR 3 million for battalion needs. I wonder what the difference between these millions of euros is. But that's what the procedures will show. And it's actually true. This hospital isn't useful right now and we can't use it. However, I must tell the public that the equipment that the Slovenian Army does not need and I do not know why it has been purchased and purchased, such as endoscopy, laparoscopy, we will put this equipment into use to civilian hospitals, which I think is good for this civilian population to use. Of course, it will have to be answered, why was this purchased, why did we move from Murska Sobota, to the barracks in Maribor? Because the hospital's standing in Murski Sobota is causing a certain cost. She's not protected. We need to protect this hospital. And as I said, we will still have to invest up to a million euros in medical equipment that has not been procured. At that time, 9 million euros were spent. For this reason, the whole procedure must be carried out in peace so that we can transform this hospital from Rolle 2 to Rolle 2 for the needs of the battalion. I also ask myself: Why was the purchase of medical equipment for only 900 or a million euros used in 9 million euros? This is the question - Where did these 8 million euros go? Even the indications are that the containers are old, overpainted. Let me say that "air condition" - let's say - does not work, then the operating table browns and I don't imagine that with such equipment together with Murska Sobota Hospital we would work because essentially the equipment doesn't work. Of course, the reasons will show the procedure. My duty as Secretary of Defense is to do as much damage as possible. This is that in peace in the Maribor military, we transform this hospital for the needs of the Slovenian Army and then actually use this hospital for the needs of the Slovenian Army, because it was purchased for it. Let me tell you, that's not why we're not getting another Rollo 2. Because we're going to use this capacity, even though we're going to spend it far, far too much. As I said, all of us will cost 10 million euros instead of 3 million euros if we buy the capacity that the Slovenian Army actually needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Slavinec, please! Mr. Secretary, if you turn off the microphone. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u59	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a debate be held at one of the following meetings on health, in general, health in the Slovenian Army. With particular emphasis on this subject that I asked the Minister about the Role2 hospital. I justify the proposal because there are very many open questions. In the second part of the answer, the minister wrote down quite a few of them. He says the hospital isn't useful. Then there's an open question right here: Will it become useful in Maribor now? It's obviously not useful to you on Murski Sobota. Now that you have moved her to Maribor - that is how we can understand your answer - it will suddenly become useful. Why can't we do it usefully at an existing location? You're saying you want to do the procedure in peace. I assure you, Pomurje is very quiet. You can do this in perfect peace in Pomure. At the same time, we all know that the purchase of this hospital has been deliberately redesigned for the current needs for several reasons. One is complementing and supporting the protection and rescue needs. The second is that this has also been recognised by NATO as our contribution, as our quota - the minister of course is nodding, but we well know that it is so for the part that we have to spend budgetary resources for the purpose of the military to ensure what NATO requires of us. I saw the tables two months ago, and I assure you, nothing browns. I really saw her. The hospital conditions are no worse than they'll be anywhere else. And that is probably one of the reasons for the debate when you point out the needs of the Slovenian Army. Yeah, I know. Even in peacetime, the Slovenian Army has the need for a hospital. For example, similar reviews of Slovenian soldiers and probably the Ministry estimates that Slovenian soldiers will be too far away to drive to Mursko Sobota for reviews. In addition, he forgets that from Pomurje soldiers travel to other parts of Slovenia every day, and very far away. But, ha, it would be more convenient if the hospital from Murska Sobota, now that it can become operational, moved to Maribor, that the army will have closer access to the semi-annual and annual examinations and other needs, the peace-keeping needs of the Slovenian Army. At the same time, they also satisfy the political appetites of some others. In view of this, honourable fellow Members, I propose that we make a general discussion of this and find a solution and such a cycle of the hospital throughout Slovenia that [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and that this equipment will also be used as carefully as possible. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Slavic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister for Education and Sport and the Minister for the Environment and Space. Mr. Beast has apologized, is absent, but Mr. Sponik is here. Here you go, Mr. Ziherl!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Every day we witness climate change that can be detected by everyone, because their effects are very noticeable and familiar. In recent years, thousands of people have died following the consequences of the heat wave in Europe's capitals. Weather phenomena are unpredictable, more intense each year with catastrophic consequences. Slovenia has also not been spared in recent years, although there is some false sense of security, that we are somehow at the brink of these intense climate change with our position. And with regard to climate change, in Britain, Lord Stern assessed the price of the consequences of weather disasters and presented several scenarios of action for the future in his famous so-called "Stern report." Also in the United States, Al Gore produced a film and a book entitled Uncomfortable Truth. Environmental issues and related climate change are becoming increasingly aware in the EU's Presidency. Thus, at the G8 summit, the President-in-Office of Germany was able to take an interest in the action of even the staunch United States of America and some countries with a rapidly growing economy. In the mass of prepared action scenarios, there is an important place for education and public awareness. Education starts very early in children. Thus, in Spain, viewing and discussing the film is part of the subject in primary school. The media is increasingly involved in public awareness in the form of short, few-minute messages, all the way to thematic broadcasts and press articles. Thus, we have been able to track a new website for the last few days, where the state of the world's population can be restored for a few seconds and the estimated increase in carbon dioxide emissions. But if you click on a country, it gives you information for a country. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Thus, we were able to learn about Slovenia as much as we pollute it. And the question is: How to get to know and animate people for energy savings and consequently reduce carbon dioxide emissions? Some solutions are the force of simple, namely, better insulation, energy saving lamps and energy-efficient electric appliances, better transport arrangements. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] That's why I'm asking: What is the Slovenian public awareness programme through the media? How is this taking place in our schools, and is it possible to follow the Spanish example and at each primary and secondary school to show the film mentioned, to have a discussion? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Ziherl, for that question. Since Dr. Beast's colleague apologized, I'll have a little more time and I'll be happy to answer the questions raised. Especially in terms of the role of education and awareness in the face of climate change. Allow me to start by saying that the portfolio I have been running has also been dealing with climate change for quite a decade and is systematically working to raise the awareness of the Slovenian population. Much has been done on this topic, from a number of workshops, consultations, information meetings, articles in printed media and so on. I would particularly like to be specific about your question on the school dimension of this issue. This information is important. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, we plan to raise awareness among pupils in primary and secondary schools in order to adopt the inclusion of climate change in primary school curricula. This is happening and is just before this process is completed. With regard to your question, which is related to environmental issues and in relation to schools, I would like to present to you in particular a successful project of movement or eco-school programmes as a way of life. It is currently held in 306 educational institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. Today’s children in kindergartens, primary school students and high school students will therefore receive important information about sustainable development or environmental protection. In particular, it has been demonstrated by psychological, educational, sociological and other aspects that children and young people have a very important influence on the behavior of adults or their parents, so that they change their patterns of behavior by their example. We also support such programmes in our ministry. On your specific question regarding support for the performance of the famous film Al Gora, I can say that in Slovenia we have particularly financially supported lectures and also a viewing of the film The Uncomfortable Truth. According to the information we obtained, this film has already been seen by quite a good part of the Slovenian school population. But there's still an opportunity for the rest of the population to see it. We also work well with NGOs. In this area, there are very active Omanothers, the Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development, and the Slovenian e-Forum, the Society for Energy Economics and Ecology. Together with them, we have prepared and are preparing a number of workshops that open the process of preparing the starting points for Slovenia's climate strategy for the period after the first Kyoto period. These workshops seek to highlight the views of different stakeholders on the fight against climate change in the future through a modern process. We are setting up work in three directions: prevention, adaptation and search for solutions outside the framework. For teachers and administrators workshops are carried out with the support of the Ministry of Environment and Space and some, as is said, NGOs. We have also been active in the field of information in recent years. The publication Take less, have more, in 2005 was first published, and when it left, we reissued it last month. Also in cooperation with the Embassy of the United Kingdom in Slovenia and the British Council, we participate in the initiative Slovenia reduces CO2. The activities under this initiative are primarily aimed at raising awareness of those who decide - in this case also the highest government structures. A number of events last year have already taken place, and this year it continues. Last December we also published an information library entitled You have the power, show more wisdom. Recently, however, together with the Ministry of Health within the framework of the Chemical Safety Week, we have issued a fresh, renewed publication Take less, have more. I thank you for your question, and also your Group Globe, I invite you and your fellow Members to continue the long face-to-face with climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Both gentlemen are present.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In February this year, we learned that the Idrija-logic leg of the fourth development axis or road link, which is commonly referred to as Celtica, is not included in the National Strategic Reference Framework for the period 2007-2013 and the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental Transport Infrastructure. As a result, at the end of March, I asked the ministers responsible for development projects in the country, Dr Ivan Žagar and Dr Žiga Turk, a question which I did not get a satisfactory answer to. During this time, my fellow Member, Stanislav Brenčič, took the initiative of the mayors of Logatca and Idrija to meet with the top representatives of the transport and environment ministries. This meeting was then held in Hotedršica in early April. Unfortunately, both ministers were absent for excusable reasons, Mag. Janez Christmas and Dr. Janez Podobnik. The meeting was very useful. At that time, we also concluded an Idria-logic alliance for the comprehensive consideration of the fourth development axis. At the meeting of representatives of the Idrian and Logan municipalities and ministries of transport and environment and space, we agreed on a series of activities in the classification of the Idrija-logological arm of the fourth development axis in the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023 and in the National Strategic Reference Framework for the period 2007 to 2013. That is why I would like to ask: How are the activities taking place in both ministries two and a half months after the meeting in Hotedršica regarding the Idriian and logological legs of the fourth development axis? In addition, I would like to ask: How is the whole fourth development axis being placed into space? I thank Mr Bozič and Mr Podobnik for their answers in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, a good day! As has been said several times before, the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007-2023 prioritizes some major transport infrastructure core projects, which are also part of the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007-2013. With or to limited resources, around EUR 200 million, which are available to the Ministry of Transport under the European Regional Development Fund, priority has been given to the most problematic and financially sustainable road links in the operational programme. This, of course, does not mean that updates on all other road connections have stopped. Priority measures in the field of roads are or will continue to be included in other implementing and strategic documents, namely the budget of the Republic of Slovenia with the Development Programme Plan and the national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads. We believe that the road link Želen - Idrija - Logatec is not the most neglected since the measures for its modernisation and removal of bottlenecks are continuously implemented year after year within the available budget resources and on the basis of the prepared documentation. In addition, the modernisation of the road link from Želen to Logatc will help to unload the road from Želen to Škofje Loka, as accessibility for the Idrija regional centre will also be improved along with the arrangements for the transition under Kladje. The tunnel opens the northern corridor, which improves Idria's commitment to Gorenjska and forwards to Austria, or to the tenth corridor, and to Brnik Airport. Since the Resolution on National Development Projects is a long-term and living document, its content will certainly change and complement over time. The changes will be prepared on the basis of a recapitalisation of project implementation reporting and an assessment of the feasibility of projects already included in the resolution, on the basis of an assessment of new project proposals and in line with budgetary capabilities. Therefore, in the context of the proposal for a new resolution, it will also be possible to make any changes or additions to the scope that will justify the objectives. Therefore, the Ministry of Transport, based on the initiative of the municipalities of Idrija and Logatec at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development Service, will submit a proposal to complement the project to modernise the state road network on the priority development axes with the project to modernise the Idrija-logic foot of the fourth development axis. Just a few more words about putting the fourth development axis into space. In view of the modernisation of the existing road link, those measures for which this procedure is carried out in accordance with the rules governing interventions to the premises shall be placed in the premises. In the case of road links on the fourth development axis, these are carriageways and a new link between Cerkni and Hotavlja. Thus Škofja Loka is already ready for construction, in progress the accommodation in the area of Gorenje Vas and the new road connection from Cerknje to Hotavlje, for three more carriages, Godovič, Hotedršica and Lower Idrija, are preparing studies variants. So much for my part of the answer, and also Minister Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u68	Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend Christmas already said most of the things. As Commissioner Bevk has already said, there were objective reasons why the Minister and I were not present at this well-known meeting, where an Idrian-logological alliance was established with regard to the Idrian-logological foot of the fourth development axis. Last but not least, if we look at the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, it clearly shows that it is a true Y-leg, it is an additional confirmation and so on, as Mag said. Christmas, including the Ministry of Environment and Space, supports the initiative of the mayors and others, i.e. the municipality of Idrija and Logatca, to complete the Idrija-LOGological leg of the fourth development axis and place it in the resolution in autumn and after possible additions. This is our support, and we will also defend such a position in the framework of the government procedure. I can give even more detailed information on what is going on on the fourth development axis as regards spatial procedures, especially with regard to the link between Sosoča and central Slovenia, this is the leg. I can say that we are in the stage of making comparative studies variants with the most appropriate option. One week ago, the mayors of the municipalities, where this time, took note of a set of options for further evaluation and also of the comparison between them. This autumn, however, we want to accept the optimal option and then continue to put space into space. One key issue is where the tunnel itself will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Again. I understood the response of Minister Bozič and Minister Podobnik as a correction of the error made by the Government last year when it did not include this part of the fourth axis in its development documents; it is said, first, in the Resolution on the country's development plans for the period until 2023. I also understand that, or this would not have been explicitly stated, that this road or development plan should also be included in the National Strategic Reference Framework 2007 and 2013, as this is a condition for co-financing from European funds on this road. I think this was once promised, especially when the government delegation visited the field last March when they visited Idrija and after the final interview in Nova Gorica. I would therefore like to request an update on what is happening with the National Strategic Reference Framework and with these operational programmes. In addition, I wonder: How does the mountain part of the ipsilon address three types of tunnels in the space at the fourth development axis - if I know correctly, in Novak, under Kladje, or just a few kilometres before Lower Idrija, as the mayor of Gorenje village recently suggested? I know this thing isn't finished yet, but [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u73	I would briefly answer the last part of Mr Bevik's additional question. As with other procedures for placing new or otherwise road routes into space, I would like to ask you to understand that now that we are in the production of comparative studies of variants, and as we are proposing the most appropriate option, of course, by comparing them with each other from an environmental, financial, transport and technical, regional, developmental perspective, you will give us at least a few weeks to answer all these questions and then, of course, invite the competent, first of all, mayors, to familiarise them with these results and then propose the most optimistic option. When this is chosen, the public debate will also begin and we will go after the new spatial planning law to place it in space. Indeed, there is a new idea, it speaks of how important these strategic decisions are when you place such a road within the meaning of the tunnel into space, so we will think carefully here and hope that we will make a good decision. With regard to the first part of your question, I know that spatial plans for all the vehicles mentioned will be made. These are the carriageways in Godovic, Lower Idrija, Hotedršica. Maybe then I can get a refill from my friend Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, actually, I've already put the answer in my answer to a repeated question. The fact is that this is a major investment in all these development axes in Slovenia under this reference framework, 200 million euros are foreseen for the new transport axes by 2013, and the fact that money is missing. I also said that, despite this, we are constantly modernising this connection to Idria on the existing road and investing big money. I'm not going to go out here today, but you know in the budgets how much money this is for. Surely it is not a mistake for this leg that has not been classified, you know that it is a reference link and we will continue to complete this study, which was done in the first step. Finally, there are also changes and additions to all routes in other development axes: third, 3A and some others. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Mr Gulič, the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, will you still ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows! Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I waited a little bit because I thought there was going to be some more applause, but I had naively imagined that the whole government deserved to hire a round of applause, not just the Prime Minister - but that's not the case. My question to Minister Juret Zupan is about what is happening with regard to the draft law on higher education and research activities. Indeed, Mr Minister has so far not had the necessary discussions with the partners required directly by the law, nor with the students. Of course, all these things also had causes. First things first. Students and other partners certainly want to have a discussion, because it is a vital matter and it is also in the interest of the wider Slovenian public to do so. In fact, when he was discussing a strategic document, it is said that the Resolution on Higher Education, proposed corrections by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, was largely disregarded by the 15 pages or only two points from these 15 pages. Because of this poor experience, the students took a normal course, which was to prepare an autonomous tribunal at the Faculty of Philosophy, prepare a statement and wish to hand it over to the Minister. There they drew attention to the issue of higher education and planned reforms, but did not accept them. And because Muhammad was not at the mountain, they went to Mohamed themselves and read the statement at the Ministry, put some flyers in the lobby, and then left the ministry. A few miles or miles or more from the ministry were stopped by the police, legitimized and carried out this procedure for about an hour, so they missed the round table at the FDV. They all received a later notice of the offence, namely, 'because they were glued posters with anti-government content'. So the question to the Minister is: How does a dialogue with students when adopting legislation? In addition, I can give him an additional, complementary question: Will he require the retrogarding of the verbal delinquency in interdepartmental coordination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you. The Minister will answer your question in writing, unless you want him to answer orally. You want her to answer verbally? All right, then he'll answer your question at the next session. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present colleagues, ministers and ministers! I am asking Dr. Andre Bajuk the following question to the Minister of Finance. The public was very upset by the new form of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which was received by the owners of parcels of vineyards by post. On the basis of the application of this form, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 71 of the Income Act, they will be subject to the cadastral income of a vineyard whose production is used for the production of wine increased twice. The catastrophe income of vineyard owners will increase by 200% for these parcels. In this case, those with the lowest income were drawn again briefly, as an increase in cadastral income, from which they do not actually have income, because they produce wine for their own consumption, not because they want to drink it all themselves, but because they simply do not have the opportunity to sell it, directly affects the eligibility to exercise social rights, for example, a protective allowance, a child allowance, scholarships, social assistance. I therefore ask the Minister: For what reasons was the cadastral income raised in vineyards? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much and thank you very much for this question. I would like to point out that, by amending the tax legislation adopted in mid-2004, the income from the sale of wine began to be regarded as an activity income and determined on the basis of actual income indicators as a difference between actual income and expenditure or as a difference between actual income or standardised expenditure for 2005 purposes. These were set for the agricultural activity at 70% of the revenue. As it has been shown that keeping records of revenues and costs to a large number of debtors presents a problem, since 2006 the possibility for the wine producers to establish income for the wine sold has also been given the possibility of increasing the cadastral income of the vineyard whose production was used to produce such wine twice. The increase factor was found on the basis of calculations of the agri-consulting service, which show that the income from the sale of wine may be 2.8 times and even 10 times higher than the income obtained through the sale of grapes. However, the new Income Act, which entered into force 1.1.2007, entered into the income system as a basic agricultural activity at the request of the wine-producing undertakings. This means that it is no longer necessary to monitor the volume of actual sales and is taxed in the same way as other basic agricultural activities. This is taxed on the basis of a cadastral income which is attributed as a flat-rate estimate of potential income according to the registered cadastral culture and the quality of the land to taxable persons entitled to use land. This was therefore adopted on the basis of proposals by wine producers proposing flat-rate taxation. Thus, all wine-producing undertakings must report vineyards in which the wine is used for their own wine production, irrespective of whether they sell or consume the wine themselves. However, as income from wine production, account shall be taken of the cadastral income of the vineyard, increased by the coefficient determined on the basis of the calculations of the agricultural advisory service. Such an approach means a system-wide regime for taxation of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, which all rely on a flat-rate assessment of potential revenues. However, all taxpayers are given the opportunity - and this is very important, all have the opportunity - to move into a tax base-setting system based on actual revenues and costs or actual revenues and recognised standardised costs. They thus have the opportunity to pay their income according to the actual volume of sales of their crops. On the basis of the Income Act applicable from 1.1.2007, wine growers may choose the most favourable version of taxation. Such a method of taxation was proposed on the basis of professional proposals from wine producers and the coefficient was determined on the basis of data from the agricultural advisory service. I hope I made myself clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your answer. Mr. Secretary, you've been very thorough and you've explained it to me in detail. But I don't think it was the wish of these little vineyards. No, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u83	Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u84	I can only assure Members that this was a proposal and an amendment that was tabled during the debate of these legislation alone and that the proposal came directly from the private sector, representatives of these winegrower organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary. My question is very short, but it is related to the things we are listening to, reading and listening to from the President of the Government today. And I am interested, Mr Minister: Do you think that as a minister responsible for the economy, or with the Government together should have a greater direct impact on the privatisation procedures of companies that are owned or owned by a majority or part of the state, or on the sale of state shares in companies sold by the two parastatal funds, these are KAD and SOD? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. Actually, I'm very pleased with him. Indeed, it is clear from this question that the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are not directly involved or directly affected by the sale of shares in companies or by the withdrawal of the State from the economy, and I think that is correct. And from this question of yours is also the answer to all those here today who have read to the Government and individual ministers, even to the Prime Minister of the Government, that we are going to have some biased privatisation. In fact, by law and by the rules of operation of the capital and compensation company, privatisation procedures and the preparation of individual programmes are in the hands of the professional commissions following the sale of several objectives. I'm sure maximizing the purchase is an important goal. In my opinion, however, as Minister of Economy, the goal of any privatisation is to further develop the economic society from which the country withdraws. In particular, how to obtain for a company such a new owner, who will be responsible both for the company, for the employees, for the environment, for the local community. So follow a broader objective and not just the will of economic interest, which can sometimes be very cruel. Similarly, for example, we have followed the privatisation of the Slovenian steel industry, where, of course, in addition to maximising purchases, the issue of further development of iron production was extremely important. This has been assessed by experts in this area, as well as the further development of jobs, the modernisation of technology, environmental issues, in short, a range of related problems. Finally, in the Slovenian steel industry, we followed the company's important social responsibilities towards autumn hockey and so on. So; no, we don't! The answer is: no, we do not want to be directly involved and influence privatisation procedures, because I think that this is the professionally responsible work of experts, both in the field of law, in the field of economics, in the professional field covered by each company - for example in the case of steel industry - and so on. Therefore, it is also difficult to accept that there has been any involvement or direct influence of the Government, individual ministers or officials in specific transactions in certain privatisations. Of course, if we also compare the number of companies from which both the CAD and the SOD, as well as the direct State, are withdrawing, we could also find that this withdrawal of the State is accelerated during the term of office of this Government. In short, we want to seriously fulfil our commitment to withdraw from the economy, and at the same time probably in certain cases some companies, in particular some biased lobbyists, would like it to be even faster. Because at a certain point, we would like to buy something that would not be optimal for the state and taxpayers. From this title, I would like to point out that privatisation concepts and procedures are also thoughtful, prudent, economical. From this title, we fully trust the Commissions, which I also appoint for each particular specific business and withdrawal process. As far as KAD and SOD are concerned, both companies are doing this independently and without the direct influence of the Government or any relevant minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you for that answer. Nothing surprised me at all. We're listening to this, and there's no reason for me not to take your word for it. As I can believe in the statement or written statement made by Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem, who claims otherwise. It is said that we are in a situation where we have your word and have its written word and will probably, after you have clarified what is true in this and similar matters, be more likely to literally answer it. It will probably help not only to be the target of the readings, you and Mr President of tomorrow's vote in the cases cited by Mr Cvikl, and it will probably be possible to clear this up in an extended debate on every particular case - both Mercator and Iskraemec, so on - and find out. Surely there is a political will or pressure, there are many cases, there are many quotes, perhaps a statement by the first man of KAD, Mr Toplak, before the meeting of the Bank's Supervisory Board, where the leadership has been resolved. He quote: "The leadership of the Bank is being resolved because the decision to sell 44% of the share of the Bank to the National Financial Society has not been politically verified." It could be something else, but that's his statement. I am so sure that you have satisfied me with your answer in that part that I believe in your word, but I also believe that others who claim otherwise do not lie exclusively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you. Do you want to answer? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear Member, I have sworn before this Parliament two and a half years ago to respect the rule of law and to act for the well-being of this country. And the word spoken for this speaker in the microphone, the magnetogram, is solid and I stand behind it and it is the basis for your interpretation against me, if it turns out not to be true. And it probably has some weighty visa to some flattened eyes that you can read from this or that statement by some people who for such and other reasons have also gone their separate ways and have probably said a lot of things in some way, something that is completely untrue or not true. And taking these two things with the same vat and the same weight is a matter of personal judgment, but it seems to me that they are different and have different weights. So, I say to you that we do not want to and do not interfere in professional actions, but in particular in sensitive acts such as privatisation. We want things to be properly carried out, we want matters to be developed in the long term for the benefit of all, but most of all, companies, employees in them, the environment and local communities and countries. So, even when we are talking about privatisations, we are also following the objective that this society will stand in the long term to give jobs, that it will give not least an opportunity to develop that particular environment, and I will gladly respond to any concrete, I emphasise concrete, the obvious feels personally that I have engaged in any privatisation process, or that I wanted to influence the decision of privatisation, or that I have even gone through or beyond the expert opinion of the Commission which was empowered to do so. And then I will be happy to defend what I have said today, of course, on the basis of concrete data in a particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u94	I would ask, in view of what Mr Minister has now said in the second part - and I think I have understood correctly, but there is no reason not to believe - that what he claims is true, and I can also create my own opinion that the statement in Andrijana Starina Kosem's letter was that when he resigned from the post of Secretary of State, he was pressured to resign also as President of the Supervisory Council, and that this is not true, as any other statement. Therefore, I repeat, given that my colleague Swickl has proposed that these specific cases be explained in a broader debate and explain that we will have this opportunity when we vote on his proposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. That's what's gonna happen. The next question asked by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the Minister of Justice. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, I believe you know that in addition to taking a life, if you want, in the public domain, sexual violence against children is the most repudiated crime. I believe in this part you agree with me. Victims of sexual abuse and prolonged childhood suffering are specific victims. In addition to visible behavioral problems, such a person is affected by a number of diseases in later years. Even so, especially in terms of respect for human dignity and its physical and mental inviolability, the whole society should act more responsibly in terms of violence, sexual violence, and victims, especially when it comes to child abuse. A while ago, Minister, I addressed some of the questions sent. Specifically, the last question in connection with the introduction of the so-called paedophile registry or sex offenders as you wish. Earlier last year, at your ministry, we discussed the possibilities and the need to introduce new solutions aimed at ensuring greater security for potential victims, including the possibility of introducing a so-called pedophile registry into the Slovenian legal system. At that time, I even gave you the case of Great Britain; there is no doubt a good example of good practice in this area, especially in the interest of greater protection of children against sexual abuse. To this day I regret, Minister, I say, unfortunately for you in this area nothing has happened - with three calls I stress - absolutely nothing!Oh, my God! Your point of view at the beginning of last year was that the current changes in criminal law, including in relation to the level of penalties for crimes against sexual inviolability, were appropriate. That's what you said. In the case of a clear lack of transparency within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I should mention the second opinion of the Government, which was given on another occasion. The government notes that in Slovenia the penalties for violence, sexual violence, are too mild. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Minister, the fact remains, the proceedings before the courts are too long, especially when talking about cases of violence, sexual violence against children. Family law proceedings are also being brought before a court for several years, a concrete procedure for the award of a child. Prosecutors also point to the unacceptable situation in our system. We need specialized family courts, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If you say that you are not competent to regulate the judicial system - I specifically speak in connection with the implementation of family policy, that is your answer - I ask: Who within the government is responsible? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Sturm, to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. Let me first answer the question about the establishment of family courts. The Ministry of Justice shall, in particular, support the establishment and functioning of specialised family departments within the courts responsible for judging matters relating, inter alia, to domestic violence and other cases for which the family courts are responsible. However, family courts know large countries, which also have large courts. In Slovenia, the establishment of special family courts makes no sense, as this task is taken over by highly specialized departments within major district courts and is favoured by the Ministry of Justice. Of course, in smaller courts it is necessary to look for solutions that are also known elsewhere in European countries with a similar network of courts and the number of judges in these courts, namely, to deal with this case, in these cases one specialised judge himself. With regard to the questions you have set regarding the monitoring of perpetrators of crimes against children, I have repeatedly explained that it is possible to provide insights into the record of crimes committed at the Ministry of Justice, and these views are already being prepared with the envisaged amendment of the School Law, which will cover a very large percentage of all these potential perpetrators. We must not forget that among the 270 registered perpetrators in recent years, there has been quite a good part of this area and this will also be covered. There is also a new criminal code in preparation, which will also specifically address the crime of domestic violence, which is now not specifically dealt with, for so far it is only a chapter on crimes against public order and peace. The new Penal Code will bring and specifically address this specific crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Minister, for that part of your answer. However, I would like to hear certain things in detail, and allow me to try to get answers from you with questionable questions. You mentioned that changes are being made in the field of school legislation. I ask: How will judges cooperate with education and education bodies? You haven't mentioned anything many times, and I'll tell you the truth, I'm tired of these answers, you mentioned an existing criminal record. Now I don't know who you're deceiving: the whole Slovenian public or you want to deceive yourself. I hope you know how the existing criminal record works, that the perpetrators of crimes in this general criminal record are erased after a certain period of time, depending, of course, on the crime they have committed, and, of course, on the ratings they are subject to. In fact, they can only be in criminal records for a few months and work in education and education for a very short period of time. Minister, this is practice. On the other hand, Minister, I ask you: last week you announced a major overhaul of criminal records in the media. Is it possible to expect that when the area of criminal records is open, you will find hearings for a specific record or sex registry [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Offenders? [[...]] Many European countries know this special record - and let me remind you, the 1959 Council of Europe Convention also says that the country can also have more criminal records; that is, special criminal records. I have ordered an extensive research task in this area and will list: Croatia, Great Britain, Ireland, Finland, Denmark - only a few European countries, not to mention the United States of America, Canada, Australia. All these countries [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] they have special records. [[...]] Slovenia is defending it. I don't understand why. Please also answer: What will be your role in the preparation of the so-called family code, the law on the prevention of domestic violence? And last but not least, what's she like? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Minister, please, for an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you, too, for this additional question, which allows me to explain even more precisely the situation we are talking about. Of course, the family code is not within the competence of the Ministry of Justice. The experts from the Ministry of Justice are involved in drafting legislation in this area, which is part of the Department of Labour and Family. So this, as it is said, is not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. The special record you are talking about against the perpetrators of these crimes is automatically already in existence in the existing criminal record, because all of these crimes are committed against a specific article of the criminal code. And those acts that bind to a certain article of the Penal Code actually mean the record that you want that is. It's only within the broader criminal record. This data can be compiled and this computerized view is not a problem. It is said that there is no need for special records in this respect, as data are available and available now. And, of course, it's not true that they disappear after a few months. That's not true. Data are so long in criminal records that they can confidently prevent high-speed employment in schools or educational institutions. And on the question of what the judges will do in this case. The proposal for a new law, which is not being prepared again by the Ministry of Justice, but by the Ministry of Education, provides that judges shall inform each court of law of the school where such a person is employed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Well, this time, Minister, I'm disappointed in you. I must say that I did not expect a different response from you, so allow me, my fellow Members of the Parliament and my colleague, to take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, your answers, Minister, usually go in the direction or quoting of existing laws, our warnings are deliberately ignored, or the transfer of responsibility to other institutions or other ministries. I have only heard on several occasions from the President of the Government or the entire government at the beginning of the mandate that the Government is working transparently in all areas to ensure that ministries are working together. Last but not least, Minister, I told you in the beginning that this is about sexual or child abuse, one of the most rejected crimes in our country or society in general. And these questions or procedures should be dealt with by the Government, which has enforcement power, with full responsibility, and this is cooperation. You know, if the family code they're preparing at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is also about the role of the courts, then it's your duty, Minister, to know and to participate in the drafting of this law. To know what the responsibility of judges will be in such important matters! Last but not least, Minister, you have argued here today, and next time, I will prove to you that you are deceiving or not knowing the area. However, it would be better to remain silent, because existing criminal records actually allow a person who has been convicted of any crime and is entered in a criminal record to in fact be removed from this record after one month. And that even cops don't have access to these general criminal records. Minister, you don't want to take any responsibility! I have listed some European countries that have joined this project, here I have a purely fresh research task that I have ordered. But you don't have any specific answers to the Minister, and I'll tell you, I'll tell you, in two years, since I first came to you with this idea or a request to please help - you haven't prepared any concrete analyses. Sad, but true, Minister. That is also why, my fellow Members and colleagues, I would ask that when we decide on a broader debate tomorrow, I will say that the answer of the Minister, who is, is misleading and which contains, in particular, a large part of the delegation of responsibility to others to support my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, allow me to lead the meeting. If you wish to ask the question of a Member, you know that this is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, apply in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, please don't disturb the session. We continue with the list of applicants. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, distinguished Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk! The first half of the year has expired since Slovenia took over the euro. This period is long enough to be observed for the first impact analysis. The acquisition of a common European currency has significantly reduced inflation and interest rates in Slovenia, which has had a positive impact on the business sector and the appreciation of the public debt and increased access to credit. The introduction of the euro removes fluctuations in the foreign exchange rate between the euro Member States and the associated risks and costs. In addition, various transaction costs related to currency exchange or the management of different currencies are also eliminated. In 2006, the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia successfully implemented a tax reform that brought a gradual reduction of tax burdens on companies, notably by phasing out taxes on paid salaries, reduced rates of profit tax from 25% to 23% in 2007, gradually up to 20% in 2010, and the introduction of incentives for research and development and additional regional facilitations. The tax reform carried out reduced the tax burden on both citizens and the economy. The share of tax revenue in total government revenue will decrease by 1.7% of gross domestic product in 2007, and by a further 0.5% of gross domestic product in 2008. Gross domestic product increased by 7.2% in the first quarter of 2007. Economic growth is both even higher at the beginning of this year and in 2006 mainly due to the resurgence of goods and services from abroad, export growth was 13.6% and the continuation of high growth in gross investment in fixed assets. Dear Mr. Secretary! How do you comment on the high growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter, according to the first three months, also according to the latest figures of the Statistical Office, that the economic climate indicator in April 2007 again reached the highest value? Do you think it is just current and accidental economic overheating or natural economic growth? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I ask Dr. Andre Bajuk's Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your question. The fact is, the Prime Minister of the Government has already largely answered a similar question at this meeting. I would just like to add or maybe point out that this is actually some kind of economic growth that Slovenia did not know at this level. Once we had a slightly higher economic growth in a quarter of our time, and that was at the time related to the fact that VAT was being introduced, and we all knew that it was just a one-day trait, that it was only then because domestic demand had strongly raised overall economic growth. I think that it is most important as far as this data is concerned, although this is the first assessment made by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, as regards economic growth in 2007, as well as final for 2006, we will only be available there in mid-September. However, it is important that economic growth in Slovenia is actually increasing, not diminishing, that there are no signs that we have already reached some level so that we cannot expect even better results than before. And the other thing that's very important is that it's on a healthy basis. Here, however, it is very important that we always have before us that the main source of this is external demand, including the possibility that the Slovenian economy could respond to this increased external demand - and in fact also increases and obtains larger orders from month to month - and that investments in fixed assets have increased significantly. True, they have also increased in construction, but this is far from the only thing. For the first time in many years, I do not even remember that something like this ever happened, the processing industry has also achieved a strong increase in investment in some specific period. However, as a person can appreciate, these are the assessments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Czech Republic, the opposition must be critical and the government must sing to itself. I think it is also important that we assess this in the context of what the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia offers us every month, and this is an index on the climate in the economy. The economic climate has never been as high and as good as it is now. This index is prepared by the Statistical Office every month, as I said, on the basis of a uniform methodology that is the same for all Member States of the European Union. In the past, between 1990 and 2000, this index has always been negative. That is to say, when entrepreneurs themselves looked to their own future, they had no reason for any greater optimism. After 2000, this improved slightly, but only since 2005 does it actually increase from month to month. Why? Because finally, if I take over the euro, what it means for entrepreneurship is that it eliminated the big strangers. Finally, the biggest problem that any entrepreneur faces is whether or not he has risks. The fact is that we are living in a completely different environment today, where all these things are predictable and the rules of the game are known and it is well known that even a government, one such or another, cannot change these rules of the game. And that's the best source for all of this. It is also true that in our environment, this is said in the European Union and, above all, in the euro area, there are currently good times. However, good times predominate for all countries, but they cannot all show the economic growth that is now real Slovenia. On the other hand, I'd like to add two more things. The first is that this economic growth is happening in some environment, at some point when our exports are really total, almost 70% of everything that Slovenia actually creates that we are not dependent on a small number of large companies for this export. The so-called large companies in Slovenia export only one quarter of everything, the next quarter are medium-sized enterprises, and the third quarter are small businesses. And what is one feature that no European country can show today? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, the whole quarter of Slovenian exports are micro-enterprises. [[...]] This is said to be the case when the country withdraws from the economy, when public spending actually decreases as a share of GDP, it also creates a larger, broader space for private initiative and this is the basis for our optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you, too. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. [[She's not here.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u110	I sure am.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u111	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u113	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u114	Mr. Secretary of Justice. I don't know how this works, but very many of the draft laws prepared by your ministry have been brought before the public, but especially in the profession, serious criticisms and warnings that these are serious and dangerous intentions of interfering with the independent judiciary and the judiciary - especially these two recently - and of trying to strengthen the power of the executive branch in the face of the judiciary. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, what assessments and sub-bases are based on these marriage plans of yours, which have recently been a major source of excitement for the professional public? With regard to the proposed amendments to the Law on Lawyery, I saw two different statements in our electronic media on the same day. In one case you argued that such behaviour was directed by the European Court of Justice, but you did not tell which European Court specifically and how it ordered you to do so. On the second statement on the same day, you argued that this is what the European Commission is asking of you. Which decisions, which courts, or: Which directives are you referring to? Thanks for the answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you for the question, Madam Member. In particular, we are directed by certain amendments to the Law on Lawyering to the Ombudsman's report and by the relevant report of your National Assembly, which pointed out that disciplinary procedures are poorly regulated in the current legislation. In the current legislation, disciplinary procedures are so regulated that they are not determined, of course, led by lawyers themselves, who also play the role of those who sue within disciplinary procedures, but are not determined how long it takes, is not determined when it must be completed. This arrangement has raised a number of concerns, which, as it is said, has already been pointed out by the Ombudsman and which have also been included in the reports of the National Assembly. This is an area that will certainly need to be modified slightly, taking into account all those elements of autonomy that the legal profession has as such. The material you were talking about, they weren't even part of the drafts, they weren't in the government procedure yet, so they've been changed in the meantime, and I can't say that it's some kind of definitive material. Similarly, when you mentioned legislation on courts. The judiciary legislation will never affect the independence and independence of judges, nor will it ever affect that judges are those who decide independently on the content of their judgments, nor will it have to allow control; as it has always known it: how they are charged, for example, with judicial fees or how they are respected, the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you, too. Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler will raise a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, now you've given a third reason why you're going to change the Law on Lawyers. Now, please refer also to the Ombudsman's report and to the relevant reports of the National Assembly. I am very pleased that at least you, as Minister of Justice, are so sensitive to the Ombudsman's reports, for example, in other ministers, it is not always as obvious. However, I note that the Ministry of Justice, under your Ministry of Justice, is using a very interesting tactic of animation of the profession and the professional public by preparing such legal drafts, which are even contrary to the Constitution or at least excessively strengthen the powers of the Ministry and the Minister of Justice in relation to an independent judiciary or a lawyer as an independent and independent service. We have recently received such a case with the Law proposing Judges of International Courts. At that time, you explained that you had drafted the law so that it could now be examined and taken into account by the profession, as if it were not a normal legislative procedure when the relevant Ministry had to draw up such a proposal for a law that the Government would send as appropriate to the legislature and would also stand behind it. And you're also saying that it's just some drafts and you're essentially picking up the same tactics. Last year, the Ministry of Justice paid €151,000 to help prepare legal drafts and other projects at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and Maribor. It also costs a lot of money to draft laws, so experts working at the Ministry are also involved in government services, parliamentary services, and they are all paid from the taxpayer's money. Do you know, Mr. Minister, how much these last two drafts cost us, which, as far as I know, you've already changed? Perhaps your answer will also continue to please the Minister for Culture, who there is a very relaxed monitoring of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you, too, for this additional question. These two drafts cost no tax money because they were prepared by officials at the Ministry of Justice. I must apologize again to the honourable Members to call her back in reply. I used to look at myself when you were sitting across from me, but unfortunately changing these seats led to a really awkward situation for me, that I had to answer the lady without looking at her and calling her back. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u121	Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, there's no need for an apology, and I've already told you the last time that you look perfectly fine on this side, too. However, with the reply of the Minister of Justice, of course, I am not satisfied in the substantive sense. I drew attention to the inadmissibility of reckless and substantively inappropriate interference and to the amendment of legislation governing the situation and role of justice in our constitutional and legal system. I am closely monitoring legislative changes in this area, and I note that the proposed changes are moving towards strengthening the executive branch of the judiciary, reducing the level of independence and autonomy of judges and now also of lawyers, strengthening the powers of the Minister for Justice and consequently reducing the standards already reached for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, my fellow Members, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the National Assembly, this reply be discussed by the Minister. I am convinced that this is a very serious matter, that it is actually one branch of government that the Ministry of Justice is trying to violate in this way the status and position of the Ministry of Justice. I therefore hope that tomorrow you will also support me in this proposal to have a broader debate on the Minister's response in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you, too. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. And Dr. Slavko Gaber has the word. He's not here. The following question will be raised by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable Minister. In April 2002, archaeologist Dr. Anton Velušček from the SAZU Scientific Research Centre, Institute of Archaeology at the settlement of the Stara gmajna in Verd pri Vrhnika found a prehistoric wheel with an axis that was part of the cart and was preserved in the Baryan soil. Archaeologists and researchers estimate that the bicycle is 5,200 years old and is not to be found in the world today. After some research, a bicycle was found at the City Museum in Ljubljana, which is locally responsible for storing and preserving the find. At the time of the excavations and the find, we were able to read about this in the daily newspaper, some of the articles published, and then we forgot about this unique find. The found prehistoric wheel with its axis is valid because of its age or because of its age, it is not only a national heritage but a world heritage. While it is true that a similar finding can be found at any time in archaeological excavations, perhaps older ones, but it is in place to use this time for both research and promotion. In the wet soils of the Ljubljana Bar, without access to air, the bike has been preserved until today, thus witnessing to us the life of the prehistoric period. However, when it was removed from the barrier floor, it was in different situations that could lead to a fall. The greatest danger that a bicycle could fail is the drying up of wood and the possibility of being attacked by bacteria. So I ask you: How is the bicycle being fed today, and where? Have all the necessary research or research that modern knowledge and technology can do? Have any research been done abroad? Do we intend to present this unique find to the general public? I propose that this unique world find, the oldest prehistoric round and the related research, symposiums and debates be included in the period when we will be chairing the EU and when we will have a unique opportunity to present the heritage of our environment. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking. The bike was dedicated to a competent museum in permanent storage, the Ljubljana City Museum. This wooden wheel was taken over by the City Museum in 2003. This wheel is fed appropriately, so in wet condition, in the mud of Barian, just as it has been fed underground for the last thousand years. Regarding research, it must be said that international research has been carried out. This was done by the Vienna Institute. We have carried out these studies at the Faculty of Biotech, the Department of Forestry and the Institute of Archaeology of the Scientific and Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. So, research has been done in competent institutions, and research has led to proposals on how to feed this wooden wheel. However, it has not been established that this is the oldest wheel, a wooden wheel with an axle, in the world so far and that the author himself does not claim it anywhere, especially in his research. This finding was presented, of course not in the original, already in Brussels in May of May this year in Slovenia. The restoration of this finding is expected to be completed in Ljubljana next year. The car was also designed to be reconstructed. In 2008, however, the museum will prepare an exhibition presenting the results of scientific and museum research. In addition, it will be presented to the general public only at the Ljubljana Bar and in this regard also the replica or imitation of the car itself and the original; that is, this is a very old, thousands of years old bike.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The following raises the question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Boštjan Zagorac, to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. I believe that a bicycle is extremely important, especially in the development of this country and will affect the well-being of the people we live here. That is how I wholeheartedly support this symposium and the proposal of the ruling party to take place when we rule Europe. But, Mr Minister, his question could also start a different way. In a different sense: we have heard at least a few times today in the statements made by the ministers that make up this government to get the government out of the economy. Gudron caves, some of them probably don't even know what that means. These are caves where waste oils are obtained or disposed of from all over the country. There were quite a few in the country of Slovenia, some of which were disturbing the environment or the environment or more people in the country than bicycles. The state has decided to rehabilitate them, which we certainly welcome. But she didn't step out of the economy when it came to rehabilitation. Some of the influences of some people, according to some information, the minister is probably you, but to the President of the Government, who is no longer with us today, and the safe name or surname of the Collegiate means something, have influenced how some caves will be repaired. At least in the belief of the people who live near these caves. My question was very simple and very clear, I believe that you will easily answer it: How is the rehabilitation of the Gudron caves in the Republic of Slovenia taking place? Last but not least: How is it going or how it is developing for the country of Slovenia and for the people living there, the rehabilitation of the Goodron Cave in the Posnica? And if you allow me, I believe that you are not as sad as the Prime Minister of the Government, who either does not understand or refers to the previous Government, why is it guilty to ask you also: What impact can the establishment have on the environment or the black setting of some asphaltic base on the environment anywhere in Slovenia? Are the effects negative or positive? You have been the Minister of Environment and Space, and I believe that you will be able to answer this additional question, which I regret not to have asked you in writing, but I know that such potential as this Government has, you will be happy to answer an additional question as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much. About the bike first. The circle is a symbol of development, a symbol of life, and a multitude of congregations have it in their backs. Maybe one of the countries has it in their national coat of arms. So this is a very nice parable, and this question of the Member was a good question. With regard to your question related to the rehabilitation of the Gudron caves, I thank you for your concern. I also replied to you in writing twice last year on 17 January and 9 November, which is the very beginning of the rehabilitation of the Gudron caves. I wouldn't go to chronology, a formal basis. We know that we have a National Environmental Protection Programme and a specific operational programme for the management of waste oils. My predecessor has brought the story well to an international tender, but I have successfully concluded this story myself. I concluded that the international invitation to tender had been duly chosen by the operator of this rehabilitation. The recovery itself takes place in accordance with the agreed timetable. The bailout contract was signed by the contracting authority, Petrol, the Slovenian Energy Company and the co-financing company is the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Environment and Space. On the international invitation to tender Gorenje was selected as the contractor, Household appliances, d.d. In the contract itself, the contractor also undertook to start the recovery immediately and has a period of 24 months. The building permit was issued as a partial building permit. Maybe more information about the contract itself. It is difficult - since it was concluded two years ago, I have the privilege of speaking in the old Slovenian Tolars - 2 billion 268 million tolars, together with VAT. Petrol, however, provided a billion of 47 million tolars for the rehabilitation of the gudron landfill, while the difference to the total contractual value is provided by the Ministry of the Environment and the area under the budget lines in 2007 and 2008. The recovery is expected to be fully completed in 2008. Maybe it's information that's important. It took us quite a bit of energy to find all the agreements with the Benedictine Maribor preleta, because in order to implement the rehabilitation, building rights had to be acquired, and the contract also arranged this by paying compensation for the building right and also by increasing the emissions to the environment in the implementation of this rehabilitation itself. I would also like to inform you that we have recently signed an agreement in April, a letter of intent that the next step of our ministry, together with the Maribor City Municipality, is to go to the rehabilitation of the Gudron caves in Studenci and Bohovo. This is expected to start next year and the main part would start in 2009. So, as it turns out, recovery will be completed within the deadline. On your question of how the procedures, environmental protection and others are being implemented, for the installation of asphalt systems - are being carried out in accordance with the applicable procedure. The investor or the applicant must obtain all the necessary documents under the applicable procedures. We know what kind of problems one of the asphalt bases near St. Louis has caused us. It is known, however, that due to the high awareness of people, it is very difficult and long-lasting, especially for environmental reasons, and from noise to some other environmental impacts, to place asphalt bases in space, whether permanent or temporary. With as large a construction cycle as we now have, especially the road links, it is understandable that in Slovenia there must also be some such sites to produce quality asphalt mass for quality Slovenian motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Comrade Zagorac, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. This government invented a lot of things, but not bicycles. Believe me, no. It's been invented before. I'll start from your end to your beginning. Your ministry issued a negative decision on what you said at the end, but the base stands, so that the coordination in the government should continue - even though you gave something negative, this matter stands. If we go back to the Gudron caves, I'll say, you said, an international project. He was on an international project, I'll say, selected Petrol as the one to carry out the rehabilitation of the Gudron Cave. You will probably answer me easily, but this is just my curiosity: How was Petrol better than a Mariborian raw material that has the same, I will say, both infrastructure and people who can participate in the implementation of this project? Another thing that interests me: waste oils can also be a source of additional energy. And this matter, as far as I'm aware of it, you'll probably fix me or not, is going abroad right now. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] According to my information, Slovenia has a know-how on how to turn these waste oils into extra energy and make life in this country, I will say, cheaper if you want. [[...]] And another matter: Petrol was chosen only, as far as I know, after the second call, when the government had already replaced the leadership. And I wonder: Does this have any effect, I will be the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on who will be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] performer, who won't perform? [[...]] Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you. Minister, will you give an additional reply?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I would like to explain further, answer the additional questions of the Member. Petrol, a shareholder, has caused an excessive environmental burden. It's a misunderstanding. The contractor is Gorenje. He was selected on an international invitation to tender. In the context of the property transformation, Petrol d.d. in accordance with the law, authorise long-term reservations for the ecological rehabilitation of the Gudron caves. Petrol is therefore obliged to make these reservations specifically for the ecological rehabilitation of the Gudro caves. In the previous term, the government did the right thing to go into an international call for who will do this rehabilitation, and last but not least it is the first in Slovenia, relatively technologically complex, not all knowledge was at home, there is something domestic, there is something foreign. And on this international call in a relatively long procedure, the company I was talking about was chosen. So Petrol is not the contractor of this rescue, but he's the mercenary, and it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Procedurally, colleague Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thanks again for saying that. I think it would be humane and generally good if the National Assembly also discussed such things. There are not enough of us here to invite everyone, but even if you all support us, there is not enough of us to support my desire to discuss this. I agree, Petrol is committed to correcting all the damage caused by the use of its oils in the Gudron caves. But I would expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to tell me that there is not enough knowledge in Slovenia that would be good enough to transform all this waste energy into something else, which would cause people to live in some ways even cheaper. But you can't convince me of this, not me, and I don't believe anyone else, I'll say 89 Members in this house. I think it went as well as all government projects when we talk about them, I'm going to say a little bit about that, a little bit about that. And you haven't answered me yet, Minister, one specific question: Why hasn't Rawvin received this project, despite knowledge, despite a favourable price? According to my information, it was more favourable than Gorenje, could transform energy, people would live cheaper, North East Slovenia is neglected, and you put into implementation, as you said, Gorenje. Why? Why? If it's not some government "misculants," what kind of government plants. People in the municipality of Pesnica, where the first rehabilitation takes place, are concerned. These oils are pumped, put on trains and drive abroad. The foreign has successfully turned this energy into a cheaper life for its citizens. We could do this, but we don't! Why not? I think it's a mistake, a mistake that this government must be responsible for, and that ministry that approved such a stupid project -- forgive the expression. I would therefore ask for the benefit of the people living in this country to support the proposal to discuss whether this was a mistake of this government or whether it is right that someone else lives better and cheaper on the account of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. However, I would like to take the floor by inviting the Member of Parliament, Kristian Janc, to raise the question of the Member of the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns the implementation of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance for the application of family members, marriage partners to compulsory health insurance. The Health and Health Insurance Act was already in force in 1992 and its provisions apply until this Act is adopted. Mr Minister, in your letter to the Slovenian municipalities on 4 April this year, you have passed that it is retroactive to interpret Article 21, paragraph 15, of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Such an interpretation of this provision means that marriage partners, namely citizens of Slovenia with permanent residence in Slovenia, who are not insured under any other insurance basis in compulsory insurance, must be insured as citizens in the municipalities of permanent residence, not as family members of insured partners in employers. In doing so, there are major differences; both between the existing insurance partners who remain family members and the newly insured, who cannot be anymore, and the difference between the spouses who are Slovenian citizens and who have permanent residence in Slovenia and between the spouses of foreign citizens who have compulsory health insurance in Slovenia, namely, they are not Slovenian citizens. A very important difference is also in the rights of compulsory health insurance of family members, spouses and insured persons, insurance from as citizens in the municipalities. While one is entitled to a funeral and post-mortem allowance, others do not. Such an interpretation of the definition of municipalities means an enormous increase in the number of municipal budgets insured in the coming years, for which there are no funds available, creating differences between the population and the great inconvenience of those persons in regulating their insurance. Are we back there to commit certain obligations from one address to a local level without financial support, Minister? I don't think so. The question is, Mr Minister: Why did the Ministry decide to reinterpret Article 21, paragraph 15, of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which was in force, as I said in the introduction, for 15 years? Ter: Is it appropriate to initiate a procedure for a compulsory interpretation of the provisions of that Article? And I'm asking for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister of Health for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u140	Mr. President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Mr Member, for this matter. In fact, I have already answered it in part, I think that in May this year, when such a question was given by Mrs Zalokar Orazem, I will simply repeat some things here. This is a highly operational issue of the implementation of legal and sub-legislative provisions when reporting persons and determining the status of insured persons in compulsory health insurance in accordance with the applicable law. In accordance with the law, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is fully competent and solely competent as the institution and provider of compulsory health insurance in the country to deal with those professional and procedural issues. In the last three months, the Ministry of Health has repeatedly expressed its professional position on the warnings of certain municipalities as well as the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia on the implementation of the provisions of this Act by the institution. In the opinion of the Ministry of Health in this case, it is not a new interpretation of the law, the transfer of expenditure to municipalities or even the resolution of the financial situation of the institution, but only a consistent implementation of the legal provisions in cases where a person resident in a particular municipality has not obtained insurance status from other titles laid down in Article 15 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. When considering each application, the municipality must determine whether the person is a Slovenian national or has a registered permanent residence in the municipality and whether the person may have other incomes when applying Article 21, paragraph 15, of this Law, including in the opinion of the Ministry of Health. If the first two conditions are not met, the municipality is not liable to apply for insurance. However, verification of whether a person has other income must also be carried out by the municipality because, if a person has them, the municipality is not obliged in such a case to register a person for compulsory insurance but is the same. And if, in one of the clarifications of the municipalities of Slovenia, we have stated, inter alia, that provisions on the notification of family members should be used restrictively, as you state in your written part of the matter, it is only the correct application of the two general provisions of the Health and Health Insurance Act in Article 15. After this, persons in the compulsory health insurance system are primarily included as insurers and must also be paid a contribution. However, unless they fulfil any of the conditions for entry into insurance and insurance status, they will be insured as family members in accordance with the maximum principle of solidarity of compulsory health insurance. The principle of solidarity in compulsory health insurance has its basic rule, as well as its limits, and therefore cannot be freely chosen or incorporated into the compulsory health insurance system as an insurer or as a family member. Such understanding, as it sometimes tries to show, raises questions not only about the principles of solidarity of the system but also about its purpose in general. And all the debtors are, without exception, obliged in particular to fulfil their legal obligation, to apply for insurance and to pay regular contributions to their insurers, that is, to the municipalities. And any other interpretation of the application of these provisions would, of course, require the introduction of a procedure for mandatory interpretation of the provisions of the law, which is the responsibility of the National Assembly and not of the Ministry of Health; this is not the view of the Ministry of Health at the moment, nor is it necessary. A new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance has been prepared, which has been in coordination with the social partners for two years. According to the Institute, the number of persons reported by municipalities decreased by 6,000 in the first four months of this year, which is also, of course, somewhat contrary to the statement in the question concerning the increase in the number of these persons. The reasons for the increase are certainly in the trend of increasing employment, which has been present in recent months. In order to further address and clarify these issues, the meeting convened by the Ministry was held on 23 May 2007 with representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Institute, a proposed expert group which will be able to draw up appropriate positions on possible open procedural issues and also complement the provisions prepared in the amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, for which intersectoral coordination is concluded and will soon be under consideration by the Government. Therefore, all possibilities are that, in so far as there are any unclear issues within the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the institution, as well as the ministries, they still propose amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. My colleague Christian Janc will ask a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for this explanation. But, look, what you've been explaining - 15 years this law applies - that's one thing, I'm talking from a practice in life, from a congregation where what you're otherwise denying is happening. But in view of our environment, I believe that some other Slovenian - between 210 municipalities, the story is slightly different - and there will definitely be an overload to the local budget from the employers' budget. The fact is, I am also in favour of solidarity, absolutely must be, and the question must be on whose account. Or in the way of the employer, or in the budget of the localities of the community, that is the only question. And by doing so, I think, one part of the obligation of health insurance to the local community. And this is happening, maybe in one congregation more, in another less, depending on where they are. But I am also afraid of these rights, they will not be the same for the one and the other citizens of this congregation, or for those of our congregations. That's why your explanation didn't give me a satisfactory answer. I am afraid that these differences will arise, that new burdens will arise, that the rights of citizens will be unequal between each other, and we know what I am talking about. And yet we will be afraid that when we meet each other, we will find that we had the right congregations in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much, for that additional question. I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u145	Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you. I, it seems to me, nevertheless, have answered the question raised, especially in this last part, when I have suggested or said that it is in the process of one way or another an agreement with the community of municipalities and that if we find that your claims are realistic - in order to increase the burden of the municipalities - we can also bring about any change in the proposal itself. But in every way, I think that this is essentially going to be the case, in principle, for one conclusion that the law has to be interpreted as it is written. And if now 15 or how many years, this law has been applied in this way, and it has been used wrongly, I don't know why we would be using it wrong now. It is a thing that, it is said, the congregations have now benefited quite a bit in this time period, in these 15 years. And if they didn't respect the law as they should, it was just like it was. We are only trying to put this change into some real and legal framework. But with the new law, we will try to make things right so that, as far as possible, it will be for the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Moge will raise a question from the Parliament to the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u148	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleague and colleague, nice greeting! Both Dr. Zhagar and I come from places where you don't exactly drink honey and milk. However, Prime Minister Janša said that his government would work in such a way that Slovenia would not be like a doughnut that has marmalade only in the middle. As a result, in the initial steps of this government, I was extremely surprised to learn that the old law on demographic threats was replaced by the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development two years ago. Article 7 of this Act refers to cohesion regions because it has been a long time since we adopted this cohesion region to implement the EU cohesion policy and carry out other common tasks. The Cohesion regions are determined on a proposal from the Government, so it is the Government that has the task here. The decision-making body of the cohesion region is the Development Council of the cohesion region and it is also said who is all sitting in this development world. The development council of the cohesion region shall take decisions in the preparation and implementation of EU programmes at the level of the cohesion region. In implementing these programmes at the level of the cohesion region, it shall carry out the tasks of the single body responsible for the regional development of cohesion regions and so on. I was very disappointed, Mr Minister, when I asked you the oral question about this law last time and you said that this cohesion region was not working at all if I understood you at the time. And I have promised you that these cohesion regions will be the question that I will ask you every month until I have a clear answer. Of course, you are a technical type, you know the clear answers, so we can stop after your answer. We both know that on 1 February 2007 the EU adopted Commission Regulation No 105/2007, where it divided Slovenia into SKT-2 or NUS-2, as you wish, into two cohesion regions: the first is Eastern Slovenia, where there are Pomurska, Podravska, Koroška, Savinja, Savinska, Zasavska, Lower Posavska, South-Eastern Slovenia and interior-kraška, and the second, Western Slovenia, Central Slovenian, Goranska, Goriška and Coastal-Kraška regions. I ask you very simply: Tell me, Mr. Minister, when Slovenia 1.1.2008 will be divided into these two cohesion regions, when do you anticipate the establishment of both development cohesion councils and where will these cohesion councils be established? I thank you in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I think that even though I answered one part or almost fully answered the last time you addressed that question, perhaps not in one part. As regards the drawback of funds, in this financial perspective we are already entering, Slovenia has been treated as one cohesion region because the negotiations on the new financial perspective were concluded before we were able to implement the two cohesion regions. However, it is true that we have now been able to do so and that these two cohesion regions will start working from 1.1.2008. Well, and I must tell you that even in accordance with the normative part of the programme that we have, our service has the task of preparing sub-legislative acts that will be the basis for the establishment and functioning of all these bodies. These acts are already in the final phase, including inter-ministerial coordination, and will be put in place in time, so that when cohesion regions can function in the right sense of the word, all the foundations will also be prepared. Of course, at this point, until it is adopted, I find it difficult to prejudge certain decisions, because these things need to be coordinated more broadly. I would also like to point out that, as far as regional development is concerned, but I am sure that if we want to move forward, the establishment of the provinces is necessary. And we are now at this stage, when it is actually part of the legislation that covers this part of the establishment of the provinces, already in the National Assembly, so that consideration of this substantive legislation will also begin. Of course, the resulting adoption of the provinces constitutes an intervention in a number of laws that need to be amended or supplemented accordingly. In this respect, the intervention will also be a relatively new law on coherent regional development. In any case, I am sure that the function of development is taken over, in this true sense of the word, by the future landscape. And we can also see together that, despite the fact that we have this Law on coherent regional development, if we want to take the next really systemic step to roughly evenly distribute this developmental bargain available to Slovenia, the establishment of the provinces is inevitable and cannot be taken with all the measures that follow, including the Law on coherent regional development. But once again, when it comes to acts and things that need to be regulated in accordance with the adopted law: these things are in progress as regards the preparation of sub-laws and you can be sure that they will be adopted in a timely manner. True, I repeat that the adoption of provincial legislation will also have an impact on the situation in the field of the coherent regional development law and on certain institutions at NUTS1, NUTS, or those developing statistical regions that will be taken over in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. My colleague Mogo, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, thank you for this answer, but look, you cannot define this date, but you can set the highest limit. If I understand you, you will now accept the way in which the development council of the cohesion region operates with the relevant acts, and in your opinion this thing is already so far away that I can tell my constituents at home that they will start working in both cohesion regions. On the other hand, this is Sisyphus' work, the hardest thing that's left in the country -- the establishment of these landscapes, and I don't envy what you're doing here. But this is your life's work. But once again, when these landscapes are established, it is not necessary to create a cohesion region, because I know that at least some of the development regions are already very well involved, have plans and go ahead, and these are the indicators that you will later integrate into the provinces or the provinces will take over the tasks of these development regions. So if that is the answer, then I am satisfied with it, that is to say both cohesion regions will certainly be established by 1.1.2008, so that we can then go with them in, if you want, even in the so-called election year, when everyone shows what someone has done or what no one has done. However, I think that this is not only a political call, but that for the country the establishment of these cohesion regions also means a good step or a good move.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. In this complementary work, I would simply add that it has actually proved that the decision on the two cohesion regions was legal. However, it is, of course, serious that this decision will actually come about with the following financial perspective. At that time, these major developmental differences will show up, although it is necessary to say so, and I believe that we will also be able to reduce them at that time, but in the light of Slovenia's eligibility for these funds, this arrangement will come in the right sense of the word, as I have already mentioned, with the next financial perspective. It is true, however, that, in accordance with the law adopted and in accordance with the decisions taken at the level of the European Commission, all things will be properly prepared, so that this entry into the next period will also run as fast as possible. In particular, in order to accelerate and actually move forward, let us take a step forward with regard to these developmental imbalances between different regions in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will ask the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I ask you: Do you think about the resignation, given that you are encouraging and allowing an extraordinary situation in the field of film in Slovenia? In these rooms I have asked you not only orally but also in writing several times whether you will act as a representative of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia in blocking the work and regulating the film area in Slovenia. We're in the middle of a year, half a year, the Film Fund hasn't had a work programme, and I'm asking you: Would we allow anywhere, not just in public institutions, for the Director to come before the employees and to the minister without the programme without knowing what he would do by the end of the year? I think with your, in this sense, even the ignorant attitude towards the film, you're hurting the Slovenian film, and so I'm asking: Can you even fix it? And if you can't, will you leave the Ministry for that?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you very much. So the question of the Member was as follows: With what measures do you intend to remedy the current situation at the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia? My answer is: In view of the data we have at our disposal and in view of everything that is wrong, I do not think that the rehabilitation in the Film Fund is necessary and will not be necessary. Sanitation takes place, as you know, in the company when it becomes illiquid. The recovery takes the form of either compulsory settlement or bankruptcy, both on a proposal from the administration, and is taken over by the court. The other things, I think, are malicious instigation, and I'll probably answer them after you add any more questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Ambassador Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u160	I asked you, Mr. Secretary: Can you take action to remedy the unsustainable situation in the field of film that I think is actually taking Slovenian film to bankruptcy? If 1.7. The Republic of Slovenia does not know what will happen and where it will allocate almost a billion tolars. By the way, for a billion tolars in the field of granting subsidies to such and other media, you know, but not in the field of film. In short, if the 1.7th Slovenian film does not have a programme, if directors, players and the whole team do not know what they will do 2.7., then I think this is a very frightening and painful issue, especially given that you were also warned on my part more than half a year ago or for the first time in December in the context of questions sent and later in the context of written questions. In addition, we know that there are no calls, no directors, no programs, and that is why there is damage. You tried an intermediate program or the Film Fund with some semi-virtual program to promise all Slovenian directors that they would be filming in order to remain silent. But today they're out of movies. So my question is, how are you going to fix this, more than in place, and you should be very interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much. So I'm very interested in these questions. I've been very involved in this myself. I believe that the programme was presented in February, sent to the appropriate places and was rejected. But I hear that last week this same program was actually confirmed. Why did it take half a year to wait? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you, too. Procedurally, Ambassador Maja Shirtz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u164	Just because the minister finally asked, let me say, a rhetorical question, why it was necessary to wait, I think the city is that within Yes, Mr Minister, your body's speech is sometimes more eloquent than your speech coming from your mouth. [[...]] In line with Article 246, I would like the Minister to be given the floor to explain why the Ministry of Finance has rejected the programme. Probably because the program was bad and because it wasn't real, because he promised to do 18 feature films, and now he's supposed to be able to do a movie fund of up to three if not four. The situation is chaotic, worrying and must be reversed within a broader group, not just the three of them. In short, I suggest we discuss the Minister's response. Those words that were spoken were not sufficient, but they were not something else. For the Minister, you made a good promise when you were given a mandate that your priority was a real movie. And I'm saying today that you're really destroying it as a matter of priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u165	Ambassador Maja Shirca, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the context of the vote. Ambassador Lucky Friend will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished ministers, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Last time I didn't get a clear enough answer, why don't you let me ask the minister again, or I hope that he will answer more clearly today when there are some new facts: Why such a change in the tendering conditions for the sale of the share of the General Navigation? 29.5% of the country wants to sell by invitation, of course, to the best bidder, as you said last time, respected Mr Bajuk. And yet, when this has come forward and has been a domestic economic operator, the Government, as a majority representative of the company, via the Soda and Kato, has called for the addition of applications. When these are completed and again the best supplier is the Slovenian company requiring an additional guarantee for the total amount, i.e. for a further 25% share. To what our economic operators have successfully mated and the Government has decided, through the Soda and Kada for auction. For whom do we prepare such calls, but if we know that a gentleman who has come illegally to 20% of the stake through the company of the authorising officer and who is running this company today, in many countries, is criminally ill. I'm talking about Mr. Peter Doemley. Last time I asked you clearly whether Slovenia had any ties with this gentleman, whether you received any financial sum in the client and I would ask you to deny it, because after Portorož is sincerely said that this deal has already been paid and interesting, see also the Court and when they say that the matter is transparent. When companies with ownership demanded a review in the company, the SOD and the KAD replied, "We inform you that we cannot give you this." In the tendering conditions, they demanded: "The buyer declares that he is fully aware of the state of the assets and liabilities in the company's business." How for God's sake; see the signatories are the same if this has not been possible for the companies that own the property. I also ask you, Madam Minister, where this matter will go in such an untransparent, illegal and evident way for the benefit of Mr Peter Doehle, who is probably buying the property of the General Navigation, with the money of the General Navigation. I'm glad that I'm here in court and that we can meet and explain some of the facts that I hope will not surprise you. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] for you have been informed of these matters. [[...]] I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much. First of all, I would reply to the honourable Member that there is a lot to be said about bars across Slovenia, including the fact that my wife and I are supposed to buy some parcels in the Prulas and that we are building a parking lot. This, of course, is not true, nor is it true that what you have just said is spoken. Of course, I can't sue you for not saying you mean it, but it should be said that the party I chair should have financial connections. It has no financial connection with this gentleman, to this company, nor to any other company. You claim that the rules of the game have changed. The rules of the game have not changed in any way, this is done in accordance with the regulation and the invitation to tender. In the case of the sale of investments, both Kad as the Court of Justice must act lawfully and as a good economic operator in any case, since the aim of selling is to maximize the selling price and achieve the objectives set, which are reflected in the well-known additional formal conditions, either the ratings or guarantees and the content of the business plan for the next five years: the grant policy, the openness to co-operate with science and so on, on those conditions that potential tenderers must fulfil. You are well aware that an invitation to tender has been made. Three tenderers applied for the invitation to tender for the purchase of the general navigation business shares, and all three of them who submitted the complete tenders valid until 3.7. were invited to present the development programmes for the General Navigation of Portorož and were then invited to improve the price of the offer. The Kad and the Sales Court reviewed all the tenders received and, in the interest of transparency, the sale of price maximisation and equal treatment to all three bidders will continue the sales process at the auction to take place on 26.6. The exclusive price is now EUR 40 million, which has so far been, once again, the highest bid we have reached. Let me conclude by ensuring that you do not change the conditions for the company during the sales process, as only these are the same as in the public call published in the Slovenian media. However, it is correct for the administrations to choose such methods for the sale that enable companies to maximize the selling price, transparency and equality of treatment of all tenderers. The Court and Kad decide on the auction system in 2006 and 2007 whenever more than one buyer appears to purchase a share of strategic investment, for example, Merkur and Niko. In 2006 at least 20 investments were thus sold and the bank guarantee is a normal instrument to ensure the seriousness of the tender, which was also used in the event of Merkur’s auction. Let me add that, because of the various phenomena in the media space and other business irregularities in the past, and which have recently occurred in the general public, the Court and Kad will put forward, at the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, a proposal to carry out a specific audit, a specific audit of the last five years of the operation of the General Navigation, so that this will be clarified once and for all. These are too serious things to be just the subject of rumors, these things need to be handled wisely, and even if they no longer have a majority, if they are sold, I assure you that we will complete this audit. On the other hand, I assure you that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was that this is a strategic investment in which the state wants to keep 25% of the share plus one share, which will give us this blocking minority, so that certain things such as headquarters, such as response and support to school and other things that you know are very important for the development of this sector in our midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Complementary question, colleague Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Court and Kad made it possible for Mr Peter Doehle to have a majority in the decision-making process, 30.6. When they were in the new supervisory council, from 11 to 12, they appointed Mr Boris Goljevšček and decided that they would no longer have administrative rights. All are now favored by the Lord and come out of the same logs somewhere. However, the disturbances were removed. I'll take your word for it if this thing is really that clean, because in the world you consider yourself a credible person, and yet you've already broken your first promise. You said the best bidder would get a general voyage. This happened after the first call. Later you called, I speak through Soda and Kad, all to supplement the offer. This has also been done, the best of ours, by the Slovenian economy. No company will be preferred here or mentioned. What you called for is that companies also have to add security for, or quality bank guarantee for, the other 25%. Do you have any idea how much these companies had to lay down? 90 million. And to make things even more transparent, another 4 million for real, you put it in the offer. I ask you kindly, the Court and when you do not have to work transparently and legally, if you are violating clearly, your terms. I have previously read you one such provision when, for the first time, members who were not allowed to inspect the General Navigation in their ownership relationship, and for the second time when they requested that the applicant undertake to be aware of all business negative and positive matters. So, I ask you: Is this all prepared because you are aware that Mr. Doyle can buy this company on the first day of the auction? If so, then the Slovenian shipbuilding is over and you will be the undertaker of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, will you answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain to you, because my time has run out in the previous answer to the first question, that I cannot reveal business secrets here, and I guarantee you that what you think was the first one, and who was the second in these calls to be wrong. Thank you very much. However, I have no intention of having any preference on the part of the system which has been put in place. Once again, in no way does it hold that this is a special approach. Such an approach was applied by the Court and Kad in 2006 and 2005 in at least twenty different cases, since it is finally a matter of maximum prices and, of course, of all the additional objectives, legitimate objectives that the seller has to meet in order to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Ambassador Lucky Friend, you suggest procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is the biggest damage to social property in Primorska. This was written by him, not by me, but by Mr Kreacič, former director and, of course, this is the only company that was saved with taxpayers' money. In 1994, we passed a special law. We invested over $100 million in this company at the time, and Mr Doyle appeared as a savior in 1992 to discover that the company had collapsed in 1994. 1995 we're going to fix and look at the fraction, 1998 we're going to go down again. But with such an important contribution of knowledge and international knowledge by the shipbuilding industry, this is still trustworthy, the issue is open. And of course, trust was given against Mr Peter Doehle and in 2000 there are only three ships in general. And, Mr Minister, if you can declare that we have a partner who is credible, but is sued by other countries and is doing exactly the same thing, only by copying pasta contracts, also on our side and damaging small shareholders, under the counter to buy a company authorised to provide protection to workers and a trade unionist who becomes the director of the sale to this gentleman and today we have a paradox that Mr Peter Doehl is the representative of the workers, that is, the seafarers and usurpers all the management and, of course, brings all the profits to his private accounts, that the General Sailing today gets only one third of what it could achieve on the market with its ships. If this isn't damage, if this isn't bad behavior and irresponsible behavior of some general navigation guide, then I don't know what we're doing. It is only in the "banana republic" that we change the tendering conditions in a way that you do from hour to hour. And precisely because it is so much damage to social property, which is now state-owned, majority state-owned, tomorrow will be no more, we demand that an extensive debate be held in this Chamber before the bidding takes place. And I hope that common sense prevails. And one more thing, Mr Minister, is that what you asked Mr Drnovsk when you were still in the opposition. That's the same thing I'm asking you right now. Now you're pretending that suddenly everything's all right. I have your question. At tomorrow's press conference, I'm going to paint it and map it to all the press, so it'll be known. And another thing is, why weren't the mortgages registered for the ships even though the bank demanded it in 1991? [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Ships were transferred abroad and there was a once-raised loan, on the cargo of a free ship, not to mention. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u175	Mr Minister, you know you can't, but you can be in the general or widespread debate as to what will happen. This will be decided tomorrow in the context of the vote. The next word is "messenger magi." Borut Saiovic. The question will be raised by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Madam Minister and fellow ministers! I think we are witnessing an extraordinary dialogue and an extraordinary session when there are as many ministerial assembly as there are Members in the Chamber and there is no doubt that we will be able to find solutions in front of our eyes. Madam Minister, my question relates to, I will say in quotations, the affairs that are taking place in the disability organisations. Of course, I don't think it's your fault. However, when I read the reasons and the reasons why Mrs Elena Pečarič resigned as a member of this world and what her reasons and obvious reasons were, I doubtless thought that and simply, because there was no debate there, I felt obliged, not to attach one or the other to it, I also do not want to be a lawyer of opinion or other things, but I think that we are Members and you, as Minister, are no doubt called to devote a little more attention to this issue, so that we can explore the matter and say bob beans. Of course, as you probably read our question and the text discussed there on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, it is that these differences and different views have been taking a long time. And let's say that we see there the evidence such as that there are no established criteria and criteria for equal and effective evaluation of programmes carried out by disabled organisations, which would have a direct impact on the quality and efficiency of user services. It has also been noted that the FIHO meetings do not talk about strategies that would contribute to independent life and the empowerment of users, but only about the policy of the Lottery of Slovenia, ownership of this, gambling and, above all, that talk about non-transparent and non-economic activities about financing holiday homes, resorts, real estates, the salaries of leaders in disability organisations and the parallel earnings of certain so-called parallel structures, then without home this time of concern and concern. Today, they also gave me the social and ethical work of the Handicap Theory and Culture Society. Societies engaged in analytical methods that probably wouldn't be ashamed to be SOVA. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and, however, if it says there that individual activists of this society operate with a public terrorism vocabulary and do not stop at anything, because they cause unrest in all social and state institutions as well as in the field [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I ask you for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Commissioner, for the question. At the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we are aware of this problem, as we have also received a number of letters from individuals and disability organisations themselves on this issue. The letter was also addressed to us by Mrs. Pečarič herself and also by the Society for the Theory of Handicap and Culture, the Society of Distrophysion of Slovenia and the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. We believe that this situation does not in any way endanger the disabled or the disability protection system in Slovenia as a whole. The vast majority of people with disabilities, professions and departmental ministries estimate that disability protection in Slovenia is very well regulated. It is also worth stressing that the Ministry in its work consistently respects the principle of "Nothing on disabled persons without disabled persons". That is why we have also set up a Directorate for Persons with Disabilities in this mandate, because we are particularly aware of the disability problem. As an example, we can also mention the assessment of the Omanotere, Slovenian Foundation for Sustainable Development, in the 2006 Survey of the Government, when the Ministry of Action Procedures for 2007-2013 received the highest possible assessment. The policy of disability protection and measures or programmes adopted over the last two years is supported by the majority of disability organisations and even the largest disability organisations, such as the Union of Disabled Persons, which brings together almost 58 thousand members. In that case, the Ministry acted fully in accordance with its powers and powers laid down by the Law on Disability Organisations and Other Regulations. The second paragraph of Article 42 of the Constitution, which provides that disability organisations can also be merged into societies, and defines, under the Social Act, such societies as self-employed and non-profit associations, which establish a society and the founders combine for the pursuit of common interests. The companies themselves shall determine the purposes, objectives and activities and methods of operation and shall be directly accepted by the members of each company. Association to society is voluntary so that everyone can become a member under certain conditions laid down by the companies in the basic acts. In the field of disability protection, it is a long, decades-long tradition for disability organisations to be defined as companies acting in the public interest and in the public interest to carry out disability protection as well as specific social programmes, both for members and non-members. The subject matter of the relations between the disabled themselves is also governed by the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the disabled. The Council of the Government for Persons with Disabilities expects disability organisations to regulate their specific issues in mutual dialogue. With regard to the issue raised, it should also be pointed out that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in all documents respects the human rights of persons with disabilities and establishes rules and policies based on respect for the human rights and dignity of persons with disabilities and taking into account the principle of equal opportunities and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities. The general principles are also set out in the 2007-2013 Action Plan itself; the principles highlight respect for human rights and the dignity of persons with disabilities, equal opportunities, non-discrimination of persons with disabilities and the full and effective integration of persons with disabilities. The principles are also enshrined in the United Nations Convention, and the Republic of Slovenia has signed this declaration among the first, and the Ministry is also preparing a law on the equalization of the opportunities of persons with disabilities, where the law seeks to regulate the area of equal opportunities and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In particular, it wants to achieve a ban on the dissemination of messages and symbols calling for - discrimination against persons with disabilities and also prohibits discrimination between persons with disabilities themselves. In particular, I would stress that the Commission [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your answer. I hope Comrade Saiovice has heard you. But you have an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The secretary was fine, and it was nice to hear. I think that these answers have also gone in the right direction, but no doubt more than this dry paper and bureaucratically, but it may depend entirely on practical, simple, conversation and I am giving you the initiative and I suggest that you and Mr Pecaričeva can meet or meet politely once, because what is said in this report is that individual activists of this society operate with a public theory dictionary and do not stop at anything, it is simply not right. If you have seen an interview with Mrs Elena Krečarič, of course, such a person does not stop in front of a staircase, stop in front of every smallest slave, these are people who are unable to drive away even a fly and therefore worry. The conversation and the beautiful word probably reach their goal, but I certainly do not claim that the other side is not exactly in its thinking and that you may take half an hour of precious time, accept these people. The key decisions were taken, including the story on the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which unfortunately went its way. However, I think that there is much that can be done to ensure that the burning oil is no longer fueled and that we pay more attention in Slovenia to other important things. I am the mayor of the municipality where I would try to work in the field of public works, but I would like to hire more people with disabilities, because of the policy of the state and the lack of [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This was not possible. For the deaf and deaf, we have done some of our own resources, and we would like many things to do so, and I therefore urge you to take this matter for a good purpose. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I believe the Minister will take your initiative as well. Thank you very much. However, we continue with the questions of the Member States. Member Cyril Testen has the floor to ask the Minister without a ticket in charge of local self-government and regional policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to the ministers, Members of Parliament. The basic objectives set by us in establishing the landscapes have been the European comparable organisation of decentralisation and more coherent regional development. In the New Slovenia Group, we have already paid particular attention to the content and financing of the landscapes in amending the Constitution and in subsequent coordination. Decentralisation is understood as a transfer of powers from a higher to a lower level, so for us, any interference with municipal competences and competences of the current administrative units is a process that we do not support and we will oppose. To make it easier to understand my questions and concerns regarding the establishment of landscapes and related to the Supreme Court, I would like to present you with some information. Some residents of the Upper Soča have 70 kilometres to the headquarters of the Tolmin Administrative Unit and 110 kilometers to the anticipated headquarters of the Nova Gorica province. Taking into account that the average age of the population is high, that roads and other communications are poor, this is a huge cost for the citizens of Soča and also a high time burden. There are some similar cases in Slovenia. Let me also say that the Tolmin Administrative Unit is larger than some provinces, for example: Pomurje, Koroška, Zasavje, which in itself calls for a different status of the administrative unit. We do not want the story we experienced in transferring the headquarters of the tax administration to repeat itself. Even then, it was argued that services would not deteriorate for citizens, but they did. Finally, which is not the least important, the transfer of competence will also lose quality and important jobs for the Office. We fear that from the upper point of view, decentralisation will mean centralisation. In line with what I have said, I ask the following questions: [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] What will change for the inhabitants of Soča if the province of Nova Gorica is established? [[...]] Will the departments for agriculture, the economy, the general administration and the environment and the area that are now in the administrative unit be transferred to the province? What will it be like for about 15 workers working in these departments to transfer their jobs to work or to travel to Nova Gorica? In the area of the future, we have a network organisation of regional development agencies, whether by similar principle it is possible [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Members are no longer present. As regards the establishment of the provinces, of course, I think that they are quite uniform here, both professional and policy, that this step is necessary if we want to take the next step with regard to the decentralisation of Slovenia, which requires the acceleration of coherent regional development, polycentric development, as well as the acceleration of development in Slovenia, and I believe that this is what this National Assembly had in mind when it came to this consensus, which allows for the change of the Constitution and accelerated this process and led this process to this work, that we have already brought this substantive part of the law into discussion already in the State Assembly. From the point of view of jurisdiction or the basic purpose of the provinces, first of all, the relocation of tasks together with financial resources and together with working places from the state level to this second level of local self-government. So, transfer of the province's tasks to the original jurisdiction of the provinces. With regard to jurisdiction in the field of municipalities, I must say that we are not at this time prejudiced by the jurisdiction of the municipalities, but the municipalities may have the opportunity to transfer certain tasks in agreement to the provinces, because in some cases it would probably make sense, but this is an autonomous decision in a particular province of the first and second levels of local self-government. At this point in time, as I understand, you are concerned about the transfer of the tasks of administrative units to the provinces, as is the proposed solution to the legislation, as it has been transmitted to the national assembly procedure, we have foreseen that, due to the integrity of the tasks in the field of the environment and the area of agriculture and the economies of this task in terms of implementation, they are transferred to the provinces, but of course in terms of implementation. As far as the implementation of these tasks is concerned, they remain where they are now, i.e. in some network organisation and, last but not least, this guarantee is covered by Article 14, which specifically speaks of the need for accessibility and quality of services at the same level or better level, and I personally believe that the landscapes will also be able to make use of it and will be able to increase accessibility from this title. It is also clear from this title that the abolition of such jobs is not the case, but that future provinces will also take over all public officials and, again, I repeat, those tasks or services that individual citizens currently have in administrative units will also be in the future in administrative units. Personally, I think, and this also applies to the area of the Court, that future provinces mean that accessibility to certain other services related to the downward transfer of tasks, i.e. from the state level to the provincial level, will be further improved. In terms of the organisation itself within the province, I also personally support solutions that would mean that individual provincial institutions are evenly distributed within individual provinces, and also in this sense allow for an end to the fear of this internal disharmony. Part of the responsibility will be imposed on future provinces, but I am sure that within the individual provinces of the province or the provincial authorities will listen more. With regard to this provincial centralism, which is a real danger, I can agree with that, I must say that we have given special attention to this in the drafting of the legislation itself. I would point to two more elements, the first from the point of view of the authorities. As an organ, we have foreseen the council of municipalities, which has this corrective function in relation to the province and the municipality, the first and second levels of local self-government. Especially in those cases where the provinces would try to influence this in this sense. As in the second part, I would like to point out in this respect that equal representation is ensured in the provincial councils, but this will be an extremely important preparation of the Electoral Units Act for, say, the first provincial elections, because, through a well-balanced electoral unit, it allows for equal representation in the provincial councils. And in this sense, I believe that future policy or future landscape management will also be [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , on these questions. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Comrade Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Well, I think you've confirmed to me that those 15 people are going to work in Nova Gorica at best. So, 15 people with high education, which is important to us, and this is kind of a loss, so this is problematic for us. But I would like to know if you can answer this last question: Is there a network organization possible? I speak mainly in this sense, and we, as well as your view of this, appear in Slovenia - not only in us, probably in other areas - the desire that some institutions of the province be not only in the provincial centre, but also in other major areas. I'd like to know your position on this. In a similar way, we have organised these development agencies, and I think that this could possibly be done in a similar way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thanks for the extra question. I would say, on the contrary, these 15 people will by no means go to Nova Gorica, but they will stay where they are now, but they will do their work within the provincial administrations, essentially in network organisation. Of course, this part by transferring tasks down, i.e. by transferring and establishing provincial institutions in specific areas, can only be strengthened. In this respect, too, it seems extremely important that the administrative tasks currently carried out in administrative units are carried out later, of course, under uniform regulation, clearly within the provincial administrations. And in this sense, these are the starting blocks, just what you were talking about, that is, this network organization. As for me personally, I am absolutely in favour of these things, because we have also tried to focus on these problems of internal disagreements, including through the system of drafting legislation, special attention. In this respect, too, future provinces are a development opportunity. Finally, we are also talking about the transfer, as you have already mentioned, of quality jobs, but not at the expense of administrative units, but at the expense of the transfer of tasks from the state level down, i.e. the tasks being carried out at this time on behalf of the provinces or provincial tasks at individual ministries and other institutions. In this respect, in terms of quality jobs, this environment will only be strengthened, and this is also, in my view, a very large contribution to more coherent regional development, as far as the provinces are concerned. As far as these fears are concerned - the solutions currently being put in place are in law, they go in this direction to avoid these fears or to avoid this problem being taken into account in the present case. Once again, I repeat that this is largely dependent on future landscapes as well, but I see no problems here, because if things are done evenly and we try to introduce them, they can also, through this ensured uniform segment and the elimination of internal imbalances, which are now very pronounced, and we are also aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you very much. And the last among the MPs to be reported is Dr. Paule Gantar, who will raise the question of the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, a respected colleague, a respected hall, if I don't already know who I'm supposed to say hello to in here. Recently, Mr Minister, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has found that your settlement with the PUH, which covers three different settlement operations, of which, of course, it is the largest, including the most popular, settlement for works carried out by the Puh at the rehabilitation of the beach after 1 January 2000, corresponds to the opinion that the conduct of the officials of the Ministry who, with a private person, conclude a judicial settlement in respect of claims for which the legal basis does not exist, is consistent with the definition of corruption set out in the third indent of Article 2 of the Anti-Corruption Act. You have also publicly confronted the chairman of this commission, you have tried to uphold this definition. I did not refer to any of these, at least not to me, new and well-known facts, but I called on the audit to respond to everything. As you know, we have taken note of the fact that you will conduct an internal audit. We have also come to the conclusion that you are obliged to carry out an external audit. According to the information I have, this external audit has not even begun. So I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, to let us know, me and everyone else: firstly, what is the internal audit, and secondly, why is it complicated to find an external audit house? Do you have the will at all to do this search seriously, because such audit houses that are looking for decent work in the country are large, competition is great and I do not believe, I do not imagine that we could not get such an audit house on a regular invitation to tender, with a public contract or whatever. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you so much for asking. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question to the honourable Member, Dr. Paulet Gantar. First, I'd like to answer your first part of the question. When the Commission's principled opinion on preventing corruption was made public, I faced the President of this Commission on the following day at one of the shows. My principle opinion was that the Commission did not give a completely new convincing argument which could be found in this procedure by the Government's proposal to settle in the settlement with the PUK for the works actually carried out and for both other cases. So, I replied to this meeting that I am assessing that this is a principled opinion of the Commission not, it does not have enough basics, but in our ministry, because it is not even known exactly what the formal procedure is, we have prepared our findings and opinions, which we have extensively elaborated, professionally additionally justified and made them publicly available on our website. I think it's one normal way of communicating. In this general position, we have reiterated our belief that, in our view, neither the Ministry nor its officials have left the duty to act, since before the decision is taken to propose a settlement to the Government, persons have carried out numerous checks, both the content and scope of the works, and have found the right legal basis on which the settlement is to be based and on which it would also be legal. This also applies to both other matters on which an opinion has been given in this Commission’s principled opinion. However, I would also like to answer your specific question specifically. The extraordinary revision of the rehabilitation of the beach of Stože, from 2000 to today, was introduced on the basis of a decision of the Minister on 1 March 2007, the area of internal audit covers the project of rehabilitation of the beach of Stože from 2000 to 1 March 2007. The basic objective of the audit is to determine the correctness and prudence of the management and management of the beach rehabilitation project of the Concentrations in Logo under Mangart for this period. It is clear from the subject matter itself and from the period of this revision that this is an extensive work and has therefore been divided into two parts. The first part covers the period of intervention from the leaching itself on 15 and 17 November 2000 until the issue of the local permit in December 2003. The audit report for this first part will be prepared by the end of June. The second part, however, covers the period of recovery from 2004 to 2007. It is in the process of verifying documentation and collecting evidence and the report will be issued by the end of July 2007. We will report on the audit findings following the issuance of the reports for the first and second parts of the audit, and also after the joint report expected in September 2007. And now for your second question. Why is it complicated to look for an external audit house to conduct an independent audit of the procedures? Here I would like to tell you that there was a public order for independent business audit services in the rehabilitation of Log beach under Mangart. That was the board's decision. In your question, you're talking about Pooh's payment. This was the proposal of the Committee on Environment and Space for the rehabilitation of Log beach under Mangart from November 2000 to the end of 2003. This contract was published in the Official Journal on 6 April this year. In view of the estimated value of the contract, a procedure has been chosen to collect tenders after the previous publication. No tenders were received in spite of the invitation to tender issued and the tender documentation published on the internet. It's just I agree with you, I'm surprised at the fact that we have a large number of professionally qualified audit houses on the market, but, unfortunately, no one has applied. [[...]] Therefore, we decided to proceed with the public broadcast process. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We continue the procurement process, which is currently under way and is expected to be completed in the first half of July 2007. [[..]] In view of the frameworks and timetable for the delivery of the independent external audit service, we anticipate that the results of the external audit will be known in the autumn of 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u194	We have some additional questions, especially on what the Minister has said. Firstly, I know that you have been defending yourself or justifying the impregnableness or confusion of the Commission's assessment of preventing corruption by not giving any new argument to the Commission. But that's exactly what I'm worried about. The old arguments seem to be enough for such an assessment by the Commission. Another matter, if we are going to the internal audit, then I must tell you, Mr Minister, that with such, I would say, by saying the task to the auditors, of course, you have not done a good job. Simply, you extend the period of intervention after 1.1.2000. According to the law, the intervention was completed, intervention under the authority of the Ministry of Defence, and ended at the end of 1999 and 2000, the story of 2000 and then the story of rehabilitation and conflict with the PPH began. If you have extended the rehabilitation until 2002, even until 2003, until the adoption of the site plan, of course, this is completely wrong and at least I will not buy it and I will not doubt that anyone else will be in the National Assembly. Secondly, of course, it is clear, in my opinion, that if the price of the contract was, whatever it was, low, no one applied. And we're going to check and judge this price or maybe you're not blocking this external audit. To be honest, the internal audit, as you put it, I don't give much, and I don't really care much, but I care a lot about the outside. As this must take into account the legal conditions and legal principles and auditing methodology. So let's wait until autumn and see what happens, but the problem, of course, remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u196	A brief answer to the second part of Mr Ganttar's question. I don't think you're right to continue publicly discrediting the results of internal audit. And you're wrong to say you don't put a lot on internal audit. You will see, it will be done professionally, within the limits of the competences it has, so it is also run by a highly qualified person. I absolutely disagree with you with the interpretation of when the intervention works go into remedial. That was one of the interpretations, but I don't think you're right. The most correct interpretation is that remedial works begin when a location permit is accepted. And it's the right thing to do as a minister, and I think I did the right thing, but of course I consulted that the first part is, this is the period of intervention. And the intervention, I've determined exactly when the first part is. You will see how properly extensive and professional the internal audit has also been set up. Please, and I suggest you don't interfere with it in advance, I think that's the right thing to do. As for the external audit issue, however, my sincere wish was - as minister - to have this procedure run. We've done everything. The procedure was conducted transparently. We have an overview of what we're supposed to include. I think that the invitation to tender has been very properly set up and I hope that we will now be in the process of negotiations that are under way, I think that they will come to an agreement in the short term and that this external independent audit, despite the fact that parliamentary holidays will be carried out and that we will get the results early in the autumn, and we will also get to know you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavel Gantar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, if I am not mistaken, I would like the National Assembly to hold a debate on the answer to the question raised by the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Janez Podobnik. I am, of course, fortifying this by the fact that there are serious substantive differences in views that need to be clarified. Mr. Minister, it is simply not possible for you to set a limit to where the intervention ends and where the rehabilitation begins. These matters are legally clear and justified in the division of labour between government departments. By moving the matter from the Ministry of Defence, Protection and Rescue, which has the tasks of intervention, the matter has come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is responsible for the recovery of the consequences of natural disasters and so on. And that's perfectly clear. This was the case with earthquakes, as it was with other matters. And there's no way that this line can be moved by any means, so that we can resolve the arrangement with the POW. But this is a substantive debate, and I hope that the two Members of Parliament will support the initiative and the Vice-President tomorrow, I have no doubt, support the proposal to discuss the Minister's response to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you, too. Comrade Pavel Gantar, we will also vote on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Both ministers and the entire ministerial team, I thank you for the answers given in the course of item 1 of the agenda. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the 29th session of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 9:00. Have a nice day or evening.
