ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following Members are unable to attend today: colleague Josip Bajc, colleague Roberto Battelli, colleague Mitja Ljubeljšek from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day - another defense proposal for a law on trespasses. I inform you that four hours and 25 minutes are foreseen for this debate. Before I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the procedural proposal will be submitted by my colleague Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Not only from day to day, it is more clear from hour to hour that we do not have all those data on the table and all those rules that would allow us to make quality decisions about the package of provincial legislation. In our group, as well as other colleagues in Parliament, we have repeatedly tried to achieve that the Government would not only put the National Assembly online, but in the decision-making procedure put all those rules around the image of the regionalisation of Slovenia. That didn't happen. This is not what we have today when we are actually in one of the key stages of decision-making. The government is forcing us to adopt three laws without knowing exactly how big the regions will be, without all the powers they will have. I therefore take advantage of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure and suggest that we postpone the debate and the decision to one of the following meetings in accordance with the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. What this next meeting will be, as far as we are concerned, depends on this full framework of rules for regional legislation. If that is not the case, I do not see how we will implement legislation that opposes a good part of the opposition parties that opposes a good part of Parliament. And it is very difficult for me to imagine that it will also be possible to provide the necessary two-thirds majority for the law that will put an end to this legislation. It is in the coalition's hands to try to find an agreement with everyone who is interested in this legislation, but not to force it into reception as a roller without all things being known. Please let us vote on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. My colleague, if I understand you correctly, you refer to 65. - to which Rule of the Rules of Procedure? Colleague Školč, this means that the National Assembly, your proposal or your vote on your procedural proposal under Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means, yes, I have just been warned and I take back my previous word that you are proposing that the item be moved to one of the following meetings. [[...]] This means that we have a vote with a simple majority. We're voting. There are 38 Members and Members present, which means that we have not yet concluded or voted enough Members at this time, so we will move on to a second decision on the same proposal for a decision. We're voting. This time, too, it did not put enough pressure on Members and Members to vote. According to our established practice, I give 15 minutes of breaks, which means that we will continue the meeting at 9.25 a.m. until then, and I interrupt this point and the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u4	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly and the adjournment of the agenda. As you know, we have tried twice to determine the conclusion of the vote on the procedural proposal offered by colleague Školč. We are moving on to the third decision on the same proposal. We're voting. There were 54 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour, 28 against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted, which means that we continue with the agenda. If this goes well, Comrade Terchoon, for the same procedural proposal, I will take your word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the same procedural proposal you've already told me can't be. We note that the ruling coalition has no hearing about what we have already said and insisted on adopting provincial legislation. We have always argued and advocated that provincial legislation should be adopted in a package and together. Now, however, steps are being taken to give the public the impression that we are just before the adoption of provincial legislation, but in fact we do not have the most important things on the table. And what do we have on the table? On the table we have a law on the provinces, on the elections to the provinces and on the financing of the provinces. We do not have the two most important laws, a technical law that violates the powers that define the jurisdiction of the provinces, and we do not have a law that has led to the adoption of provincial legislation all these years - on the division of Slovenia into the provinces. In doing so, I would like to point out that we believe that the division into the provinces is also the content of the provinces. The provinces must be functionally operational, they must also be based on historical facts and must be territorially rounded. We don't have that on the table right now. We have the Land Financing Act, which basically says nothing, except that even municipalities will be mostly or fully financed by the State, which means that it is not a real decentralisation, and we have no content and no division, which is the content, as I said. The Minister has also said in his presentation of the laws that our amendments, which we have drafted and tabled, therefore, the Zares Group, will not be accepted. I have also heard from the partner opposition party that they demand a joint hearing, that they demand a behaviour on financing, content and division into the provinces. If they're going to cooperate, let them take it from themselves, but I don't think that's intentional. We will not participate in such work because we believe that this provincial legislation is incomplete and that it is a shame for Slovenia to accept it in such a way and to such an extent that it is only partial and does not tell us what the provinces we will have. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I declare that the Zares Group will not participate in today's work in all three laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you very much. My friend Barovic, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you, colleagues and colleagues, presidents. When implementing regional laws, the Slovenian national party proposed that the number of provinces should become a constitutional category. Simply because we started our own Slovenia with 54 congregations, we have 213 today. With each change of power, the number of landscapes will adapt to the way artists draw. It was not accepted. Secondly, in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that as long as the Government among itself, the Government among itself - I stress, ministers will not have an agreement and an agreement between themselves to argue with the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Respect, to whom I recognize that he has worked a great deal on these laws, and they are incoherent - a single or two-tier system. You know, in the Slovenian National Party we will not bear the burdens that you do not know how to solve between you, on your shoulders and we will not be responsible for what you do not know how to deal with. Thirdly, in the Slovenian National Party we know that at the competent Ministry you received the positions of municipalities, very precise views. The municipalities agree, disagree with the landscape that, that, that, that, that and that. Regardless of the views that were clear, in 14 days you changed the image of the landscapes to desire, which is the essence of the political appetites of this government, individuals, I can tell you in particular who are at home in Lithuania, who are at home in Zagorje, because they think it would be better and better not otherwise. Where are the demographic, geographical and other substantive areas that link the landscapes? The provinces, colleagues and colleagues should pool and pursue common interests. What we have in front of us is separate. Kamnik and Zasavje - please! I respect my colleagues and I love Gorenjska, but it doesn't work together, it's like we do a sandwich - two candy and a salami in between, well. I mean, well, someone's drawing it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Just think about it. [[...]] Last but not least, colleagues and colleagues, if regionalisation will follow this principle that we now have, be aware of something: we no longer need a government, we no longer need a government! All jurisdiction passes to regions, the government is no longer needed, and no one knows what will happen to hospitals, what will happen to health care, what will happen to transport. We're shutting it down from Dars, DDC, ministries, we're shutting it down! Well, damn it, but let me read it a little bit, please! The Slovenian national party will not be called in this so-called, excuse the expression, despite respect for the part invested, the cow trade, participate until once the order is made and once we are reconciled [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal is also on the part of colleague Petka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the LDS MPs, I would like mainly to attach to the coalition Members that we have committed ourselves to trying to adopt provincial legislation in this mandate. However, the aim was to adopt good provincial legislation, and this good pension legislation is not before us today, which is why this commitment to the LDS is no longer there. In LDS, we have always advocated a simultaneous discussion of all laws affecting the province, we have been holding this line since the first day of the debate, and we do not call it today. The coalition or its government has had enough time to submit all the missing legislation to the procedure, not to inform us about it online. We all note that the so-called technical law and the law establishing the provinces, they are both in bandages, they are both not put into the procedure, they have a fatal impact on the situation of future organisation. When we read this online version of the law on the transfer of competence, we find that there are many anomalies and inconsistencies in the area of culture, water regulation and other environmental tasks, in the tasks and form of promoting the economy and the enterprise initiative. And we have a feeling that some ministers, because of the dictatorship of the Prime Minister, had to come up with a proposal on what to transfer from the ministries to the provincial legislation. The provincial legislation is so fateful that it must not cause any confusion as we have been given to those who participated in the establishment of the municipalities in 1995 and must not be as fatal as the irregular legislation in the field of denationalisation, which still leaves consequences in the life of the Slovenians; not just those who were beneficiaries. More and more in the Liberal Democracy, we find that we actually need a kind of white book on the transfer of powers from the State to the provincial level and a review of the possible tasks that we are transferring from the municipalities. We note that, in fact, neither ministers nor mayors know what awaits them when they have to adapt to regional organisation. So, a lot of open questions, dilemmas, reasons for us to insist again on what we have proposed at the LDS House, so in moving this treatment, because the ruling coalition has not listened to it, we predict that in the three laws that are on the agenda today, we will not cooperate and obstruct them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much for the complete procedural proposal, as opposed to some, I think my colleague Barovic will correct himself. Here you go. Comrade Bones, I'll give it to you right away, just to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u11	I apologize because it is probably not clear on the basis of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure - what I said that the Slovenian National Party will not participate in this, means that we will not cooperate with all these laws on the basis of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure and we will obstruct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The supplement was just what they had warned me before. Mr. Kokalj, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u13	Mr President, I must protest. If your fellow Member has forgotten something procedurally, you cannot give him your word before me. I would just like to express my surprise that a whole bunch of Members who are now leaving have supported constitutional changes regarding the establishment of the provinces. I didn't say your MPs, but they did. I don't understand whether they knew what they were backing up at the time or not. I personally did not support these changes, and I think that constitutional changes should be the crown of this process, and I think that this is a total mess, so I call on these groups that are leaving to reconsider what they did then. If they have initiated the procedure, they should now participate constructively in this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you so much for your note. I believe that in the first part, colleague Barovic heard and will not be so forgetful the second time. In the second part, your position was expressed and you made little use of the procedural proposal. As it is said, three parliamentary groups have announced obstruction for three points. As a rule, if this were to happen in the second context, I would also convene a working council. But given that none of the parliamentary groups wanted to do so, I will not do so, so we will continue in the expected scenario and agenda. As stated before the termination, the draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. With us today, Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a license, is responsible for local self-government and regional policy. I'm asking you to step forward for the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a second consideration of the constitutional package of three provincial laws. I hope and believe that we will also do this together, or that you will do it, because it is extremely important for further work in the adoption or establishment of landscapes in terms of decentralisation of the country, the acceleration of development, the acceleration of coherent regional development. However, first of all, given the indications given at the outset, I would point out that the whole package is and all the questions are at the table of legislation at the moment. However, it is true that it is not possible to decide all laws at the same time, because it is only the adoption of legislation that requires the order of adoption and, therefore, I personally regret that they do not participate in this work, because I believe that their work can also improve this legislation. So, you're looking at a second reading of the basic package of laws. The so-called technical law, which cannot be adopted before the basic substantive land law is adopted, is in fact prepared, but the adoption of this law is also entirely dependent on all the powers transferred down and contained in this basic package. At the same time, it was also carried out as part of the 2009 budget projection of the financing of the provinces for 2009 and the transfer of personnel to the provinces for 2009. This material was also provided to the National Assembly, so these questions are also on the table. As regards the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, it has also been submitted to all parliamentary groups in several variants. We want to harmonise and upgrade this legislation as much as we have tried and coordinated legislation all the time at this stage, because there is probably more room for manoeuvre at this stage of coordination than there is a need for this final work in the National Assembly. And once again, I stress that we have been open to all coordination all the time, we are still open and we have also visited practically, even at their request, all the parliamentary groups that wanted us to be accepted for all the explanations. And of course, there is no way that they would basically deny me that the amendments would not be accepted. Finally, the Committee's own debate has shown that a number of amendments have been adopted by various parliamentary groups or have been substantively summarised in some amendments, of course in possible frameworks for the adoption of these amendments. And I believe that it will be possible to further improve legislative proposals with individual amendments in terms of quality, because I believe that we are absolutely open to this part all the time, because we want the provinces to have the best possible marriage journey when they start to work. As regards the Law on Provinces, this is a fundamental law in the area of provincial law which defines the province as the city level of local self-government between the State and the municipalities and as a territorial political and administrative community with the position of a legal person, with its original powers, with its own property and its own resources of funding and directly elected representative bodies and its own administration. This proposal has also been refined in several areas in the treatment of the home labour body and has been adopted by the Committee by a number of amendments. Some of the amendments adopted are nomotechnic in nature and others also accurately define the content of individual articles. In particular, I would like to draw attention to those amendments that have also been substantively supplemented by the law. The contents of the law will also be a procedure in accordance with the amendment to Article 1 of the Act to determine changes to the areas, names and seats of the province. In this part too, the law is supplemented. Particular attention has been paid to the article relating to both national communities by adopting an amendment to Article 11, which provides that the province in which the indigenous community lives shall adopt programmes and measures and shall ensure that the special rights of both communities are exercised. The amendments adopted are related to the content of the amendment to Article 19 which obliges the provincial council to carry out these tasks. The amendments adopted to Articles 22 and 23 are also important as they strengthen the situation of both national communities and the Roma communities. A Council for the Exercise of the Rights of National Communities shall be set up to exercise the rights of national communities. In the provinces where the Roma community lives, however, a Roma Affairs Commission is established. Some other articles with adopted amendments have been complemented accordingly, so that in this case I also appeal to the National Assembly to carry out work in second reading, to successfully upgrade legislation through this work, and to enable the process of establishing the province, which is necessary for the further development of Slovenia, to continue. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Comrade Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! I think that this way of addressing material as important as provincial legislation, in the absence of a large part of the opposition, is not a good solution. And I call on understanding all those who can still contribute to the fact that we will see the landscape legislation as it is appropriate for this legislation. See, the adoption of provincial legislation in this way, as is the case today, could be compared to a marathon in a way that dictates that those who dictate the pace dictate such a pace that the contestants fall away after each other, and ultimately those who create the pace do not reach the goal. And that can happen with provincial legislation. However, it would not be good for the decentralisation of Slovenia, for the application of the principle of subsidiarity and anything else that the provinces could bring. The Minister speaks of the fact that all laws cannot be adopted at the same time. That's clear to everyone. It is clear to us in Parliament and we do not need to explain this anymore. These laws cannot be adopted at the same time, but can be dealt with at the same time. Not literally, but we can have a package of laws before us and talk about legislation by facing different laws and views and thus getting quality legislation. This is the sense of the requirement to deal with the laws in the package. The fact that you're open, I already believe that you're open to discussions, because we've talked a lot, we've talked a lot, we've talked a lot, but the result is this: we're all talking, we're all making comments, we're all talking, and the matter goes on almost as it was proposed. This is a practice in this National Assembly and there is no exception here as well. The fate of the amendments, what it would be like today, what it would be like to meet the mother's working body. For today, we do not know that we know about the mother's working body that you have not adopted those essential amendments that would have more profoundly interfered with the legislation. You have accepted some editorial amendments, and you have accepted some adjustments regarding the decommissioned resources in financing the provinces or in the distribution or collection of excise duties, that is to say, prior to balancing. I believe that the way and the path we choose today for such important laws as provincial laws is not good, it is not right, it is worth one thorough consideration and I am making a procedural proposal that Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly and call for a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, in which you are trying to agree on how to proceed with the work, with the aim of considering provincial legislation in this Assembly in a way that we will achieve a good result, a good common result. So that the one who dictates the pace will eventually come through the finish line. [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I agree with his full content. It is really important that we address this type of material in the broadest possible range within the framework of the National Assembly. That is why I am adjourning the meeting and referring to a working meeting, to which I also invite the Minister and, please, in 5 minutes, the leaders or deputies of the parliamentary groups and ministers, if we meet in room 217. Please, allow me! Thank you. So in room 217, there'll be a meeting at 9.55. Until then, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in pursuit of the objective of having as many of us as possible present in the consideration of this matter. We'll continue after college, I think, at 10:15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u19	Members and Members, I inform you that today's session will continue at 10:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u20	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We continue with the adjourned session and the adjournment of the draft law on the provinces. I am informing you that the position and situation did not get closer within the framework of the working council, unfortunately, remains the same as before the working council. So, we're in second reading of the draft law on landscapes. The representative of the government, Minister, has already presented his position or report. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Franz Jazbec, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At its 14th regular meeting on 10.10.2007, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law on the provinces submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of the Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia services for local self-government and regional policy as law-makers, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly sent a proposal for a law on 30.5.2007, the first to be examined, in the opinion of the municipalities and set the time limit for sending opinions to the National Assembly on 29 June 2007. The National Assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 30th regular meeting on 13.7.2007. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia on local self-government and regional development, the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the opinions of the State Council, the opinion of the Pomeranian Hungarian Self-Governmental Community, the reports of the Commission on the Nationalities of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the municipalities of Krško, Mokronog, Trebelno, the municipalities of Ljubljana, the municipalities of Hrastnik, the municipalities of Hraste, the municipalities of Celje, the municipalities of Renče-Vogresko, the municipalities of Lithuania, Prebold and Gornji Petrovci, the opinion of the Communities of Slovenia, the proposals to supplement the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia to the proposed law and the comments of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the amendments of the members of the Coalition and the amendments of the Related Members, the Committee. In its opening remarks, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service noted that the proposed amendment of the coalition had been supplemented by a proposal for a law in parts for which the Legislative and Legal Service had assessed in its opinion that they were subordinated, in particular in the work relating to the procedure for determining the area of the provinces. It also took account of the majority of the comments to each article and maintained the reference to the Law on Local Self-Government in individual places so that the Legislative and Legal Service continues to draw attention to these provisions, in particular the provisions of Article 23, which remains in the Law on Local Self-Government and relates to the provinces. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee went on to discuss the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following qualified candidates have submitted to the draft law at second reading at the home working body: the Coalition's parliamentary groups at 1, 3, 4, 6, 14, 16, 22, 23, 25, 31, 39, 41., 43., 46., 48., 49., 51., 58.59. and 61. [[..]] However, the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall act on Articles 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 25, 29, 33 and 36. The Italian Hungarian Nationality Group shall, by 3rd and for the new 11th Articles, on 13, 16, 19 and on new 21st Articles, and on 22, 23, 30, 46 and 58th Articles. Ambassador Bojan Kontič to the 25th, 28th and 29th Articles, and Ambassador Zalokar Orazam to the 13th Article. The amendments were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups at Articles 1, 14, 25, 51 and 56 and the Italian and Hungarian Nationalities Group at Article 13. Amendments [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] have withdrawn the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 43 and the Committee has adopted the following amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups by Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 14, 16, 22, 23, 25, 31, 39, 41, 46, 48, 49, 58, 59 and 61. [[...]] To Chapter 9 and 64, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Articles 65 and 66. [[...]] The Committee did not adopt the following amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Articles 1, 12, 13, 14, 19 and 43, of the Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities [[...]] [[Warning of the Chairman.]] for the new 11a Articles and for the 13th, 16th and new 21st Articles - Mr President, I would suggest that I only go to the end with this, because there were so many amendments and so many that in five minutes this report is literally impossible to present.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u22	If I let you do this, I will be able to allow everyone else, given that we have not allowed it so far, I will not allow it until now. However, I believe that this is in writing, and I also believe that the Members and Members present have read it. So thank you. However, we continue on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted and the rules of the games in force in this house. So we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 23.10. this year. I am thus putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. In connection with this amendment and the article, who wants to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I shall then conclude the debate on this Article. However, I am putting to the debate article 11 and the amendment of the Zares Group of Ambassadors and the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate envisaged. And we move on to Article 12 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Anybody want a word here? Not at all. We are moving on to Article 14 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Desire for a debate? Yeah. Comrade Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Here is the eternal dilemma about the role of landscapes and the role of administrative units or administrative divisions. We have advocated a solution in the Social Democrats' Group since the beginning of this legislation, where there would be a conflict between government and local government on the landscape level. So we advocate a solution that would lead to the landscape being a amphibian and that we would have a single administrative system. This means, of course, that certain tasks and powers currently performed by administrative units on behalf of the State would take over the province. This also means, of course, that we would not have, at the provincial level of the provincial administration and at the same time, the administrative boundaries, because this is a reflection of the system and the additional costs they would introduce into this system. At the same time, this must mean that users of administrative services will not feel the transfer of powers from administrative units to the provinces. Thus, services must be provided for users where they are managed today, or this network needs to be extended and users' access to administrative services can also be made available where necessary. So, at the same time, it is a matter of maintaining contact with residents and residents in areas where administrative units are operating, functioning today, and at the same time a single administration system that will mean that we will not have a separate government at the provincial level from local self-government. The main thing is, as I have already said, that we do not increase costs in this way and that people in the provinces recognize not only the costs involved in administrative tasks, but that this remains to the extent envisaged now. We are confident that this amendment must be supported. To support, in fact, by taking steps to achieve far-reaching integration at the provincial level, but by now in the province's legislation, to write that this is meant as a single system, that the province is meant as a amphibian and that these tasks, which can be carried forward, are immediately. It is now envisaged in the law that we transfer those tasks of development and some of the administrative units immediately, and we will consider the others later on whether this is appropriate or not. This, however, can mean that this consideration later, once the provinces are established, can lead to parallel administrative boundaries. With that, of course, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also regret that colleagues from the Zares Group and others who have announced obstruction are not here today because I do not think that this law is one of those who should be obstructed. I think it would be right for us to argue today that we are laying them down and that we are ultimately deciding on what we are going to discuss in connection with this. I estimate that the fundamental political will that gave the green light to all other processes took place last June, when we reached, as it is called, such a high degree of political confidence that we changed the Constitution and made this second level of regionalisation possible. All that is happening now, I do not think it is good to prevent the realization of what has been planned, and I hope that colleagues on listening devices will listen to us and that they will change their decision. So this article is certainly one of those who has different opinions, both in politics and in the profession. I think that the path set out in the bill leads us to the same goal in any case. What my colleague said before me is that it will be possible to arbitrarily assess whether tasks that will not be adopted from 1.1.2009, unless this amendment is adopted, will be transferred to the provinces, the law does not say that. The law in Article 66, paragraph 3, makes it very clear that everything else is to be transferred no later than 31.12.2011. And it is only about whether the assessment - and the evaluation of the profession, as I understand it, is that we are not able to achieve everything from 1.1.2009, but that the possibility of a transitional period should be maintained if this transitional period is necessary. It can be evaluated or evaluated in such a way that everything can be done sooner. This law does not prevent this. The current proposed law does not prevent this, as it only sets a deadline and all other deadlines are open within this deadline of 31.12.2011. Thus, in theory, this transfer can also be carried out on the basis of an existing Article from 1.1.2009. However, the question of this article and this amendment is also important because, through this consideration of provincial legislation, according to my assessment, through a debate on some increased so-called bureaucracy, represented by the provinces, we are moving away from what has led us to change the Constitution and allow this stage of regionalisation to take place, which, in my opinion, is necessary, and which will help us to develop Slovenia more rapidly in the future. Why? Because it's an imaginary question. I think that these fears are not justified; they are similar to the fears we have witnessed in the past when it was said that the new municipal administrations will only be additional bureaucracy and will not bring anything new into this place. If we are honest and take a good look at the data, we can see that in all cases new congregations have been developing in those areas faster than in the past. And that it will also happen at an appropriate pace in the future. The same applies in this area. If things get closer to people, they're under more control, they're under more pressure from the public. And those who are mayors, you know that there are a lot of people who turn to mayors; it is very difficult for them to contact the minister or his officials by the ministries in Ljubljana at all. While the mayor is on the street every day and he's available, he's gripping, he's seen, he's pulled by the sleeve. There's something similar about the landscape level. Issues that will take place at the provincial level will be closer to people, easier to achieve and easier to achieve. I don't think any other officials are going to do the work they're doing right now, and I don't think anyone believes it, and it's saying it in vain. It is quite clear that the same references will be made, the same persons who are now performing these administrative tasks, which are under the responsibility of the administrative units, to do so now, and that, irrespective of how this law is defined, all these people will continue to do this work. In short, the availability of services will not be any worse, it will be better, but it is true that some of the officials who now provide these services in the centre of Ljubljana will be a little closer, a little closer to the people. So that I see no fear here, the only serious question that I am personally asked is whether this leap can actually be fully realized by 1 January 2009 or not. And I, when weighing whether or not to support the amendment of the Zares Group, decide on the basis of what the current regime allows, and the current regime allows us to still do so. We can still do as long as the circumstances allow this part to be endured. By assessing that, from the point of view of the whole law, this is not such an important issue that we would either be in a dilemma or support this law or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you very much. However, Member Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of this legislation in my second reading today is, in my opinion, one of the most important works that this National Assembly is politically carrying out in this mandate. This is as important for the development, more coherent development of our country as it is, to be very honest and honest, even more important for the underdeveloped part and for the periphery than for the compressed urban settlements. I am therefore truly sorry that not all parliamentary groups are participating in this consideration today. I am particularly sorry, however, that the Zares Group, which has drafted several amendments and this amendment to article 14, which we are now talking about, which, however, sets out a concept, the substantive concept of the law in that direction that has been debated in one way or another between the parliamentary groups and also at the presentation in the first reading. As my predecessor, my fellow Member, has already said, this is not an article that could not be debated or that is not what would cause the legislation to fall and why these laws would not be adopted. I would also like to hear the arguments on their part today, and at the press conference yesterday, my colleague Jazebec and I mentioned that we are open to dialogue and discussion in the Group of Members and, of course, to the support of some amendments. Of course, I would like to hear from the opposition whether this is what makes it conditional on the adoption of this legislation. This may be the only substantive argument. The reasons and arguments cited today, which have also been mentioned in the work of the working body, are, of course, no reasons or arguments. This is simply a political decision, which, of course, is really bad or the worst possible solution they have chosen for the development of this country. That is why I am really sorry that I do not hear from them today what it means to continue adopting legislation. All that you need to have the whole package and so on, you know, we do, it is, it's on the government's website and so on. In short, this is not a question; the question is whether the coalition is willing to accept some amendments by the opposition, but, of course, whether it is that the opposition also says that this is what it is then involved in adopting regional legislation. Since, as stated in this Article 14, this Article 14 is also bound by Article 66 of the same Act, in relation to the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 66, which states that these tasks performed by administrative units are transferred to the province. This, of course, means a period of duality, but after three years, of course, this duality is over and we come to the desired goal of unity or, of course, we are prepared to do this unity now and immediately. Personally, I have no doubts that it is not possible to transfer all tasks performed by administrative units directly and immediately to provincial legislation. And if this were to convince the opposition to participate in the further adoption of this provincial legislation, it would be acceptable for me to support this amendment. That's what we were talking about, as I mentioned at the press conference yesterday. Of course, we know that the essence of all of this and the decision to support the law establishing the provinces is that 2/3 of the majority that needs to be done. Colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that we are to put some more effort into this, so to us who are here in the hall, and also to those who have foretold obstruction; for God's sake, let them come and tell us what they really want. Because if we don't, we can or will be citizens and citizens can really understand this as a simple political speculation that there will be no such legislation. And then, given our willingness to do real work on this, of course, political responsibility, then definitely remains with the political parties, who will reject this legislation and give citizens and citizens no opportunity for better development. This has also been shown since the establishment of municipalities, since independence and I say, here is now after 12 years, since we adopted local legislation, the second most important step for this country, for better, faster development and, consequently, also a rise in prosperity, a rise in wages, etc. In short, there is a chain of development that is so important that I would not have dared to reject it because of one or two articles. We were aware of the importance of this in the coalition, so we also left paragraphs 14, 19 and 25 open on the parent's working body, of course when we reach those two, we will speak there, which is also a pure political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much. But thank you very much for showing how the Rules of Procedure are used and the situation created. Let me remind you of this place, in connection with article 14, we have two amendments and not one, as you say. And secondly, I would like to point out that I will not allow any further speaker to have such a grave breach of the Rules of Procedure as did my colleague Puksic. From now on, we will talk exclusively about the content of an individual amendment. Please, if the speaker tells us which part of the article through the amendment is speaking, and I would like to ask at all, given that the representatives of those opposition parties who have announced the obstruction have also said why they have committed obstruction - because of the lack of communication and because they cannot in any way enforce that you are missing it from further discussions. We continue with the list of applicants. Before that, my colleague Jerovšek, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u29	Mr President, I am very surprised by your reaction to the perfectly correct debate of Comrade Puksic. I am even more surprised that you have made it possible for those who have left us in the course of their performances to show the full range of rejection and an anarchic approach that does not belong to this procedure at all and the adoption of this legislation. Now, in my grave way, you have refused. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u30	Comrade Jerovšek, your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u31	So I ask you to withdraw your observations at the expense of our colleague Pukšič. If that's how you run things, then we won't go constructively forward. I think that this debate on the provinces is so important that even in the framework of the amendments it is necessary to touch on the issues a little bit more and I just can't imagine the narrowness you've been trying to show here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u32	Comrade Jerovšek, you too have violated the rules of procedure. Once again, I warn all Members who will apply for the word that they will only be able to speak about the amendment and nothing else. This is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, which you have accepted, and these rules of the game have been adopted by you. The next one has the word, Comrade Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. These two amendments relate to the uniformity or duplicity of the administration. So if I'm going to allow myself to have a comparison so that you won't warn me whether I'm still in this context of the debate set out in Article or the amendments. But now we have a unitary administration, so now that we don't have provinces, that's a fact. Now we also want to make the provinces and have a single administration. You know, it's a management conflict. This is a fundamental conflict of governance and it is not possible, it is not compatible, and there will be serious problems sooner or later. This, of course, raises a number of questions with changes in this and then also makes sense whether the change in the Constitution was a fundamental error. Yes, it was a fundamental mistake. This is now evident in all these dilemmas, questions, problems that are opening up. That's it. Constitutional changes were a fundamental mistake, so we now have problems. Double or uniformity, this is a key issue of costs. And what do we want with these changes on the agenda today? What do we want to do with this administration, with this state of Slovenia, with two million inhabitants and 20,000 square miles? To make it cheaper for the administration to become easier to manage, to make access to services more suitable for citizens in order to make it less administrative. Are we responding by this law to these challenges, to these desires, to these goals, to these expectations of citizens? That's all I'm asking you. That's what we have to ask ourselves. Are all these laws, these five and other further amendments, 45 or 50, to be followed by legislative changes, or do they lead to this? This was not explained by the citizens. On several occasions, I had the opportunity, a cheap opportunity to explain what unity and duality meant and the introduction of landscapes. There is no added value, so many administrative and political cities are created by this, because the two-tier administration will be sooner or later, my dears, because they cannot be two independent entities and have the same administration. It's a management conflict. Problems will be settled at the provincial level, what at the municipal level, what at the state level and what at European level. These are amendments, where the inspectors are, where the agencies are - of course, because the concept is unclear, then there are countless questions and desires about where they would be. You can imagine a citizen, I don't know, I'll say Upper Kungota, let it be from the Church, what will be done at the municipal level, what will be at the provincial level, what will be at the national level, maybe we'll get some more European level so that something can be regulated directly. To be in the European Court of Justice. Is that going to be a simplification? No! No! This does not lead to simplification, this leads to the complexity of governance, the inaccessibility of citizens, and this is why this legislation is not appropriate. It's complicated by the consistency of the legislation. It is precisely because of this distribution and distribution that there will be difficulties in complying with the legislation. Municipal, provincial and national. Yes, of course! And even if there's one and the same management, if there's a single management, which is incompatible with my notions. And last but not least, the saturation with the elections. Every year, when we have elections, there are fewer participants in the elections, and there will certainly be fewer. We will have 14 new communities in which citizens will vote, all the electoral work, then these heads will either be presidents or whatever they are, then there will be ministerial administrations, administrative officials who will run a single or two-tier administration, agencies and so on. And they're gonna have to go home somewhere. As long as it's not made at home, they're gonna have a hard time doing something. We know how these things work out. As long as they don't have tables and phones and internet and cell phones, it won't work, I'll tell you no. Even if it is not professional, so professional, if it is not carried out, then it will be professionally carried out, sooner or later, each one will settle his own species. These are the things you're gonna have to pay for. We need to ask ourselves about the effectiveness of all these controls and all that. Will anything be more interesting or pleasant for the public? A problem may arise with the jurisdiction of the congregations, the downsizing of the congregation is definitely a reduction in the role of the State. This follows directly from these amendments. That's what I pointed out in the beginning. If constitutional changes were not made to these institutions, to this double or single issue, there would be no issue of double-tier management. There would be no need for special elections, special offices, and so on, not to mention. And so, in fact, we could have more of these landscapes, without any additional costs. If citizens were also to drink pure wine on costs and who would cover it and explain to them clearly that this is a matter for taxpayers, then there is certainly no enthusiasm for the provinces. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is 20,000 square kilometres and has 2 million inhabitants. On the basis of the baselines, 14 or 15 landscapes are expected to be possible, which is of course difficult to reach. You imagine this country in the EU and its power in the perspective. Its power to exercise common interests in the EU with such division. I do not support such changes. Unity or duplicity is not a question. Sooner or later, things will show that duality is the only thing that can be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u34	Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Dear President! I hope I won't go too far in this context when you've just given a bit of a rough indication of what we can and shouldn't do in this National Assembly. But I will try to follow your instructions. I am sorry, too, that I deeply regret that such important legislation as provincial legislation does not sit in this House anymore, especially those who have supported today's debate with constitutional changes. It wouldn't have been otherwise. This is what we decided together in this National Assembly, and now we are where we are. I regret even more the fact that the Group of Members, which has an amendment to Article 14, when we consider uniformity, is twofold where we know where the complications are and where compromises are being sought. I believe that, even with their role, their additional arguments may even compromise this Article 14 on this amendment. Without their content, participation in this debate is difficult to find what is also acceptable to them. Such discussions are difficult for me to imagine as a Member who has actively supported the province's story in Slovenia for at least ten years, which is urgently needed. Finally, honourable Members, your mission is also to monitor what Slovenian municipalities are doing, Slovenian Municipal Councils and they have given 90% support to provincial legislation. Here is your mission to support this. However, I agree that we are here looking for compromises, how and in what way it can. So it's not a matter of provincial law. I believe that constitutional changes and almost 9% of the support of municipalities in Slovenia is yes. But how to optimize this as much as possible has actually been the debate today. And also Article 14 is one of those important ones that speaks of unity immediately or later. It's a matter of compromise. One option is right away, the other option is sequential. We are or have been in these many coordinations that have been, believe me, so never before about any law in the National Assembly in this mandate. And it was true that, because it was such an important fundamental issue, it was one in my opinion that the most substantive package of laws would in some way give us what we, after all, have supported constitutional changes in this National Assembly. Now, in fact, we are doing what seems to be very regrettable that this mission by some Members at this time is quite simple and they refuse to cooperate because they are not all [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u36	My colleague Christian Janc, I gave earlier warning that I would only allow discussion in connection with the article, as we are told by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u37	It is therefore difficult to discuss the 14th Article in the non-presence group, which is written that the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u38	We are not discussing the parliamentary group, we are discussing the amendment. Please, if you and all the other future speakers are aware of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u39	Yes, all right, Madam President. I believe that you will have the same relationship with all the Members of the National Assembly, not just some of whom you have such, but some of them can speak when they want what they want and insult whom they want. That's when we should have taken their word. If you don't let me say a word forward, then I'm having a hard time discussing what my problem is, and I actually hope and believe that my opposition colleagues are listening to it. Let them return to the National Assembly, as soon as possible, withdraw their decision to continue the debate and to seek the optimal solution of this amendment and others for the benefit of what I think Slovenia is on the right track to obtain such pension legislation, a province that will also like those Members who are currently sitting outside the parliamentary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Allow me again. True, the debate on the provinces, the whole three laws provided for in the six laws, were long in the National Assembly. But the work of the Members who announced the obstruction today did not allow constructive cooperation, which means they could not exercise their views. Today we have tried more than kindly to find a compromise that all Members are present at the hearing. We had three votes. I have called for a working meeting, ladies and gentlemen, but this consensus has not been found, so please stick to the topic of today's debate. These are the amendments. Not to discuss the Group of Members, indeed, not to discuss all other groups of Members who have announced obstruction, which is their right. They said the reason, but the content is still in the National Assembly today and here, these are the amendments. Member Mikolitch has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. With these two amendments to Article 14, it is right to ask ourselves what else can be done in terms of rationality with regard to the possible occurrence of unnecessary bureaucracy. I also consider, as some have said before me, that these two amendments are not decisive or will not have a decisive impact on whether or not the law is good or not good. I do not like the fact that somehow the Minister, the Minister of Local Self-Government and the Minister of Public Administration have found a common language in this area and is, in fact, now in one transitional period so-called, I say, a half-tier system. However, I would like to say that it is essential that that part of the tasks of the administrative units is the real economy, the environment and others, where it is to be rationalised, is being transferred here to the provinces and from the point of view of the personnel, I am also sure that there will be a lot of action here. However, I would be very opposed to the fact that, as far as services are concerned, either citizens, nationals or country women, the locals would be made worse by the introduction of the provinces. This, in fact, in this transitional reflection, somehow ensures that these administrative tasks will also be carried out from the point of view of the locations where they are being carried out today. In the New Slovenia Group, we have always advocated in all debates presentations and coordinations our position that we should not deteriorate by introducing landscape accessibility to services that citizens and citizens urgently need. And I do not think that these two amendments are essential to the now major speech on the single and double-tier system, because I also expect that if we are to adopt legislation on the provinces, this area will be transferred to the provinces as soon as possible. In this transitional period, however, there is only this difference for this area, as it should have been when it will be transferred to the provinces, who will be the head of this workforce, which is now and is supposed to be in administrative units during the transitional period.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that this amendment has been written in the same way that it should be written and proposed by the article by the law-makers themselves. The fact is that you can now tell me that I am not doing the right thing, but it is necessary to know that this article is strongly linked to the transitional and final provisions of the coming law and that this is one of the arguments why it would be good for us to wait for this law. The fact is that only the competences of construction and road inspection to the provincial authorities are stupid. The fact is that all inspections carried out in the province should already be carried out in an organisational manner so as to allow for the coordination of inspection bodies. Just as inspections now work, total chaos and evidence of this country's incompetence to organise control over everyday life, work, hospitality, wherever it is, in working relationships. What happens to us in Slovenia, when one inspector and another do not know how to deal and go together to review a particular area, is a matter that indicates the inability of the organisation of administrative work. Here, I think that this amendment allows for complete inspection within the province, I am talking about the second amendment to Article 14, so that it can be coordinated, for example, for a supervised entity to be able to go to the field of construction, environmental, health, labour, tax inspection and so on, although the tax inspection cannot, of course, be in this context, because it is actually a centralised state authority, but will be able to agree with one single inspection body on the coordinated control of individual entities that are not necessarily violators. However, when it comes to the examination, it is good that this examination is carried out in a similar way as preventive checks are carried out. For the entire subject to be examined from foot to head and to determine whether there is anything that should be corrected in handling, whether everything is really "cockn-pok" okay. The fact is that today it is seen, for example, in police surveillance, which is also constantly being hit by public opinion that police officers themselves are sometimes unable to do things that could be done together with other supervisory authorities. Never can one supervisory authority correct any errors that it may not detect in its review, but because it is not competent for those other things, it simply cannot do so. Secondly, what I would say is that the proposal that in the first paragraph of the amendment is more broadly covered by the transfer of powers from the state level to the provincial level, which is said to be State powers to the provincial level, is better because, in my view, it will then be possible in the so-called technical law to cover indeed all those powers that must be transferred from the state level to implementation, to implementation at the provincial level, so that this province can work in favour and in particular in the interest of the inhabitants of the province, not because it will deplete the state apparatus and that part of the costs of the exercise of State powers can go to a lower level, and perhaps because of this, the state budget will be a little thinner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you, too. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. In her first performance, I did not define myself until the second amendment, but colleague Pecan said the basic meaning of this amendment. It is important that we have some joint inspection services so that they can be coordinated. Too often today, we are witnessing events that would be closely linked to inspection services. And those who want to act face too many obstacles. When they're looking for a certain inspector, he goes to another inspector when they find him, he sends him to the third, that one to the fourth. The users of these inspection services simply lose power and no solution. As for the first part, it is called the first amendment, but the conclusion is that now the existing article of the law, namely 14, speaks of having a single system. However, it is important that we provide for 31 December 2011 in the transitional provisions. So it is time to think about the rest of the tasks that we would not have carried out at this time in the implementation of the provinces. I would also like to hear the Minister's position here and the final result of the coordination between Minister Virant and him on the single system. That'd be good to hear. And, of course, it is also desirable to hear the attitude of the Government or the Minister to the second amendment, which actually contributes to replacing the text currently written, "the tasks of inspection in the field of roads which the law governing public roads gives to them, in addition to this article, to introduce other inspection services, as set out in the amendment. Today is a problem, and many of you have pointed out that some Members are not cooperating. He is probably also the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who is a member of one of the opposition groups that are obstructing but still holds a meeting of the National Assembly. I don't deny that it will not be misunderstood. But it has been mentioned too often today that the Members, who supported the change of constitution, are now committed to accepting whatever you offer us. Let this be my second comparison today, if we then somehow accepted the provincial engagement by amending the constitutional articles, that of course means that we have agreed that we will take the next step in due course. This will probably not happen because one of the partners, and this is a coalition, is in a hurry because the goal is only to marry, just the province, the goal of making the event, not then the duration of the act itself. The problems are because you do not listen, and even by the President this has been explained several times today - you do not listen to the opposition's arguments and are not really prepared to cooperate as we do in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Number One, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would ask the President that he is as benevolent to me as he was to the last two debaters, who also spoke about other matters and not only strictly about the amendment in the debate. This transfer of administrative functions, the story of this transfer, has been going on since 1994, when the local self-governance municipalities were established, the part of the municipal municipalities, which also contained this administrative work, wanted to be regulated in an administrative manner. Both projects were, of course, divorced in such a way that the municipalities were more or less defined in the National Assembly and the introduction of administrative circuits was not possible. And we are just about to introduce this project of introducing landscapes, as we now call them, into action. And it is this transfer of administrative or administrative parts of the country at regional, provincial or peripheral level, as you wish, that has always been at the heart of the problem and also of very different interests. Thus, the project failed in 1994 in this respect. Similar attempts were made later to reduce the number of administrative units to a reasonable number. As early as 2003, even during Drnovskov's government as in 1994, these attempts were carried out and then not realized. The amendment, which in fact wants all administrative tasks to be transferred to the provincial level at the time of the introduction of the provinces, is, of course, welcome in my opinion, in my firm opinion, which in fact makes the current bill possible. If you have a government next year, you can do it right away. However, I am almost certain that in the event that it would be stipulated that this would be transferred immediately, without a transitional period, that we would certainly have amendments here in the opposite sense of the current order, not just amendments, but also trade unions' signatures, that this is unacceptable. Surely we would have more here than just one simple amendment, which is in terms of the end of the downsizing of the state administration. We would get rid of all the chiefs, these, I don't know, 56, 58 administrative units, which are very disproportionate to each other and would be much more proportionate in the organisation of the provinces, given the current differences, the large differences between administrative units, the size and number of employees and the number of services they provide. As such, as well as this decision on the transitional period, the number of landscapes is a political reality that has been highly coordinated and discussed not only among the parliamentary groups, even before the constitution has changed, but also in the field. There were a lot of conversations and coordination in the field. He was a minister, not just him, in the field, and he talked to people a lot. I think this is one of the political and administrative realities. In fact, it is also about people and without the possibility of a weighted transfer, and also a time-consuming transfer, it is not meaningful to force this thing, as it is said at home. However, the matter is somewhat inconsistent in terms of, yes, with only the legislation let us wait and think a little longer, but let us transfer the powers and tasks of the administrative units to the provinces immediately. There's no consistency in thinking. I think that the current law is a coordinated political reality and that development itself will show that there will be a lot more to be done, including what has already been mentioned, why not move all that is now at the regional level and is a matter of state administration, which concerns either physical or legal entities in the municipalities, I am not talking about all agencies now and so on, why not then move on to the level of the administrations of the provinces, territorially simplifying, in fact everything that does not need to be transferred, certain things will just be geographically framed, because the country has many different divisions to the provinces. The administrative units themselves will now be able, in the same form with a certain transitional period, to move into the province's framework also under the leadership of the President and the Director of the province. In my view, the big gap in these transfers, and it is interesting that there are no amendments in this sense, is that, in particular, in economic terms, it would be economically meaningful to discuss the organisation of economic public services at the regional level. This is what future operators and legislators are waiting for. I do not see in this amendment any new acquisition, some new content that would be more meaningful to discuss. The current text of the law also makes it possible, as has already been explained very well by counterpart Cernač. I will not support this amendment in view of the thinking I have given and the thinking of some other colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Colleague Breda Pecan, is it really necessary procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u49	Really. Mr Vice-President, I would ask that if Mr Štebet were to be warned that he did not adhere to the article and amendments we discussed for seven and a half minutes, what he was saying, he spoke for at least five minutes about the amendment to Article 66 and not to Article 14 of this Act. Let him look at what is said in Article 66 and what is said in the amendment to Article 66, and he will understand why this procedural proposal. And secondly, I was talking about the link between articles 66 and 14, and also about the link between this amendment and the law that brings the transferred powers. So I think it's necessary to be fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u50	Seems everyone in this room feels that I'm unfair to him. I understood the debate of Comrade Štebet in conjunction with Article 14. But only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! With regard to Article 14, which deals with delegated tasks, and amendments in this regard, my view is that with the new provinces they will acquire only new centres of these new 14 provinces, and all the remaining areas will, in my view, go back or draw a shorter end. It thus seems that this project is supported only in these 14 centres. What about ten other centers? I mean more than 40 former municipal centers or then municipal municipalities that we had before the reform of local self-government in 1994. Centres or former municipalities such as Idrija, Tolmin, Ajdovščina, Sežana, Piran, Izola, Illyrian Bistrica, Škofja Loka, Radovljica, Jesenice and Tržič will revert if I list only those centers from Primorska and Gorenjska. Since 1990, all of these 40 and more centres, centres and municipal municipalities have lost all kinds of jurisdiction and financial resources and human resources. For example, tax administrations have gone, geodetic administrations, defence exhibitions, inspection services have gone through, administrative units have now been reorganised, and a number of activities have been transferred to administrative districts or these new provinces. What, for example, with social work centres, the competent ministry already wanted to reform the matter a year ago, and employment institutions and so on. We are also concerned about what happens to health care, what happens to secondary education, and the love culture. And when we got into the hands of the draft technical law, we even found that the Ministry of Economy had been given the task of transferring the problem of closing Slovenian mines to the provinces. That is why in today's debate - unfortunately there are not three opposition parliamentary groups - I miss your colleagues, Mr Minister, from the Government, because these are laws that are practically touching all the departments. And I don't know why only you would be carrying the burden of this project. I think even the President of the Government should be sitting here among us. After all, you are pushing too much with this change of legislation. I don't know why this stubbornness has to be adopted by the end of this year. I think it has been a great success that we have changed the Constitution in this mandate and that we have even allowed the adoption or establishment of the provinces. We could change and adopt this legislation completely peacefully by the end of this term, say good-bye to this mandate, and in 2010 they would have written in these laws to enforce this new province and there would probably be no rush and the hall would probably be more full than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Zhagar to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Perhaps I would first touch on this implementation at the end, why it seems reasonable to adopt legislation in this mandate. As I fear that if we do not adopt legislation in this mandate, then the story of more than 10 years of talking about the provinces will be repeated, but we still do not have them, and the next 10 or 15 years will pass, and there will be no landscapes. I also believe that, in a way, when the constitution was changing, which in fact allows all these procedures, the commitment of the whole policy in Slovenia was adopted, which also, together with the expert, notes that further development of Slovenia requires the provinces, has just gone in this direction to get these old ones out of this mandate. It is necessary for the procedures themselves to adopt legislation after this current dynamic and will be adopted safely by the end of this year, and probably also in the following year. However, we are not proposing any accelerated procedures anywhere, because we really want legislation to be as ready as possible and in this sense we have also done and we intend to carry out a number of coordinations in the future. In connection with what Mr Bevk also said, even in connection with Article 14, the fact that they happened at that time is that we do not have a province, so to speak, a silent transfer of individual institutions to the centres. I am convinced that by adopting this legislation, by establishing the landscapes and also as we have defined in the laws, it will be significantly more difficult to transfer silently in the part that remains to do, or I am even convinced that, given that this part of the developmental political responsibility in a particular environment is also taking place through this kind of reverse transfer. Finally, because of the special emphasis and guarantee in the law, this has been particularly added with the amendment, that the quality of the service and the gradual nature of this service must be preserved and that is probably the meaning of this legislation. This is where I look in a positive direction. I am also sure, also from the experience I have gained in working in the field of local self-government, that through these mechanisms, which the legislation allows or introduces, these things can be significantly easier to accept in this way. It is true, however, that in this sense part of the responsibility will certainly be transferred to the provinces also in terms of political responsibility. And I believe that then, too, the current leadership will think carefully before they quietly transfer some of the institutions. Once again, we guarantee in the law that the quality of services and access to services will be maintained, especially since this is often misinterpreted in the public, people will still go to those locations that they went to today with the e-government, and with all the other acquisitions of modern society, I think it will be possible to do so even more quickly. As far as unity and duality are concerned. These are standard questions to be asked. I think the law is very clear in this part. The law provided for a single system. It is true, however, that gradual acceptance is envisaged because of the scope of this work and, of course, the single system also makes sense in view of the number of landscapes and also in the sense that, through this, the administration does not increase, I repeat, it does not increase. Nor is there an increase in the volume of finance, so there is no additional burden. We'll probably touch that in the next marriage. But the operation is financially neutral, as we have also demonstrated through the decision taken by the Government regarding the 2009 projections of the provincial budgets and the transfer of personnel to the provinces. And I am sure, but this is, of course, again dependent on the efficiency of each administration, that even a positive movement can be made here by optimizing the administration, by rational management and also by seeking rational solutions with the same quality of legislation in this administrative area, because in this part of course there is still a supervisory function and the adoption of legislation under the jurisdiction of the State, it is possible to make any savings here. This is not least shown by the municipalities, which are also through operation, which are generally becoming more and more effective, but, of course, there are also differences between them, and some are even more effective from this work. And here you can also look for savings or through this part to look for developmental possibilities. But development is the essence of landscapes, and we need to be aware of that. And when we talk about why the landscapes, because this has already been exposed, it is necessary to say that by introducing the landscapes we bring people's decision-making closer, through which it will certainly be more effective, it also means normal decentralisation, including financial and other, more coherent regional development, the acceleration of this work. And if we present this plastically to concrete projects now, I am sure that if we already had a province today, somewhere in 10 years, but if we took Koroška for example, that the third development axis project would have been substantially longer to come than it could have been at this point where things are moving, but today probably at least one part of the third development axis could have been driven, because the province would have been the one that had this part of the responsibility and could, of course, be through the priority given to this project, but things would have been faster this. And this applies to a number of other projects that go beyond the municipal framework, which are currently managed by the state, of course in cooperation with the local environment, but are significantly more alienated in this respect. Through this aspect and even through the democratisation of society alone and everything else, of course, the introduction of landscapes is urgent and, of course, many issues are covered in the law. As regards administrative units, even with regard to the Government, there are normally different opinions in the Government on individual issues, professional discussions are certainly taking place, but the law in this part is clear. The stage of transfer is foreseen, the deadline is foreseen as part of the transmission stage, and in the long run this means a single system that can be implemented more quickly, but it will also show time and it is also reasonable that legislation should be adopted in the next year in terms of operational preparation for the provinces, a different story than when we adopted the municipalities. While the congregations were instituting, the elections had already been held and there was no law on the financing of the congregations. But we want this to be a one-year period where things can be operationally concrete next year, not easy, but also concretely operationally prepared. As far as the second amendment is concerned. The law provides for the transfer of other functions of the state administration to the provinces. And I think and I can also agree that it makes sense, but here, too, we have a two-phase procedure, which makes sense to think about rounding, making sense of rounding, for example, in further inspection procedures. It is true, however, that, at this point in time, as regards administrative units and inspection services, we have proposed, in laws, the transfer of that part of those contents, which relate to the development tasks that the provinces are supposed to assume primarily. I agree, however, that it is also worth further thinking about in this part. However, the question is whether the scope of this operation makes sense to do so immediately, and the decision at government level was about the gradualness of this transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much. And I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I hope that I will only try to make comments on Article 14, the amendment. In particular, I would say that Article 14, which is proposed for delegated national tasks, is sufficiently well regulated by the transfer of tasks and, I will also say, introduces this so-called unity and preserves what we particularly wish in our party that all functions remain so close or where they are today, of course under a different jurisdiction, under the jurisdiction of the province. And actually, I don't think it's quite appropriate that we actually change this article substantially. In the second amendment, which speaks of the transfer of inspection from State jurisdiction to the jurisdiction of the province, I would say in particular this, I may be wrong, but I still remember the times when in the old municipal system virtually all inspections within the old municipalities were there by 1991, and I must say that the argument of the transfer of inspections to the country was that, if I am not mistaken, there was an argument of an inspection with a local environment and local impact on inspection services. I think that if we want to be a relatively serious country, we need to have this hierarchy, who is responsible or who is in charge. I think that, in fact, the requirement that all inspection services be transferred to a regional level is still a little excessive. I'll go against these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the two amendments to Article 14? Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I must also say that I am aware of the political context of the parties that have proposed or have proposed these two amendments and then are not taking part in the debate. It is an attempt, but the whole opposition is doing the same, and I must say that I am aware that they want to make a funeral service for the provinces here in Parliament. That's possible, too. Just be honest, be honest, some make proposals, some amendments they don't want to defend. They want to make the system as complex as possible, and they want the legislation to be actually unconstitutional, so that immediately they have the opportunity to attack. I am also aware that these are very serious issues that should be defended or discussed by the entire Parliament. At this stage, obstruction is simply incomprehensible. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, I interrupted you because I will abide by the principle that I told you at the beginning of the session. Anyone else in connection with article 14, first or second amendment to article 14? Article 14(4) Comrade Pukšič, calm down, please. Article 14(4) [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Comrade Pukšič, calm down, please. [[...]] You'll be here on Friday. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] You'll be talking to me on Friday. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u59	Procedurally. In view of this, Mr Vice-President, that your Group of Members is obstructing this meeting, I think it is questionable whether you can hold a meeting of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u60	I'm in charge of the session, and I'm gonna run it for another 10 minutes, and I'm gonna get a replacement later. Can we move on to Article 16? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u61	I raised my hand earlier, and you probably didn't notice me. I don't know, it's your decision, but I don't think it's been said by any of your colleagues or colleagues that it would be impossible to hold this debate. I also think that my colleague, Pecanov, was unnecessarily upset. She also talked about things that went a little beyond that context. It's just that it's a matter of real life and it's very difficult to fit into a particular, I'd say, paragraph-by-paragraph phraseology that's written here, and it's normal for us to go a little bit wider. This article, in order not to be mistaken, the amendment to Article 14 is linked, and this is also based on the review of the amendments to Article 66, since the third paragraph of Article 66 speaks of this transitional period, which means that these two articles are related, and I do not think that there is any dispute as far as these matters are concerned. In this debate, on the one hand, it was said that constitutional changes were a fundamental mistake, i.e. these constitutional changes that allow this debate today, on the other hand, we have heard some words about the province's conspiracy to constitutional change. These are things that I have to say are very incomprehensible, especially because they come from the mouth of a colleague who proposed at the beginning of our mandate the SA-U.S. Province Act. Or I misunderstood that statement; if I misunderstood it, I apologize in advance. But I do not think there was any conspiracy to accept constitutional changes with the consent of all those who sat in this Chamber when we accepted them, except for the Slovenian National Party's Group and colleague Koklja. We voted in favour of the amendments to Article 143 of the Constitution, which allows for this debate that we are talking about today. And in this connection, I would say, if we're talking about a mistake, probably from this perspective, it was a mistake in 1994, when a decision was made on 58 administrative units. But from that perspective, probably not from then on, because other solutions could not be drawn in those circumstances. If those who had a responsibility to manage the country at the time wanted to ensure that this system worked further. And the provinces are the constitutional category, the people of God, were and are now. It is only that this change that we have adopted - I hope that we have taken it seriously last year, not as a joke, because constitutional changes, I suppose, are being adopted with some purpose, that then, on the basis of what has been adopted by a large majority, it is said, almost consensually, that I have said, then they are also brought to life or enforced. And for this reason, I say once again that I accept the views and arguments of the applicants of the two amendments to Article 14 and that I am also trying to understand them. However, I believe that this is not an important basis on which to decide whether this project is suitable for further consideration or not. In the current text, we are following the same thing as the amendment. Only that we keep this door to decide on the volume of transmission and on time dynamics open to such an extent that we can do it in a coordinated and appropriate manner. That's the only difference. The difference between this amendment and the text is only in whether to do so with 1.1.2009 or to leave room for manoeuvre here and to settle the matter in this transitional period, which must be concluded by law by 31.12.2011. And I don't think it's a big difference, so I don't think it depends on how or how these changes are going to happen in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Comrade Blackie, help me. Did you mention Comrade Kontic in your debate? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Kontic, then he can't give you the replica. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Look, we've only got three MPs. Everyone's gonna get their turn. First of all, he has the word of Ambassador Pečanov, behind her is colleague Pukšič and the end of you, colleague Kontić.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u63	I will support this amendment, which speaks of the fact that, as in the Local Self-Government Act, Roma in the municipalities where they live have the right of their representative in the municipal council to have the same status as the provinces. It is said that two or maybe three provinces in Slovenia would also have a representative of the Roma community at the provincial council. And I think that this is the right, correct and also comparable to the arrangement for the Italian and Hungarian national communities to be a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you very much. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I understand, however, that the debate on these amendments, at least with some colleagues, is truly good and substantive. It is true, however, that this area is so wide that two sentences simply cannot be said and the regional policy frameworks of this regional legislation are wider, even in the area of the land law, where we are talking about content. And this is significantly broader and more than those who have said with two sentences that they are not for the development of the country, that they are not for the development of the landscapes and that they simply do not trust people, citizens and citizens and they have left this hall. But those who remain here remain nervous and this is not particularly good to lead this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u66	I hope you've eased your conscience. My colleague Kontic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to replicate, but well, I was not named, but I was listed as the author or the first to be signed under the proposal for the establishment of the Savinijsko-Šala Region. Mr Pukšič, we are not nervous at all, but we are in a bad mood because of the work you are doing in the National Assembly and dissatisfied, but this has nothing to do with nervousness. You can really replicate that. We could probably find another term, but I'm not gonna use it. As far as mistakes in adopting constitutional changes are concerned, I have not talked about mistakes, I have supported changes to the Constitution from the outset, and I am firmly convinced now that they have to be accepted or amended by three articles. This was discussed by your coalition Member, from your species or from New Slovenia. That's probably what this meant. But as for the conspiracy, I didn't talk about the conspiracy, and you didn't hear, you didn't listen, or maybe it's the first right, you didn't hear. I was talking about a provincial engagement, but it could end in a piano, just like it's about now. So not about the conspiracy, but about the engagement, but this political landscape conspiracy can turn into a conspiracy. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u68	A colleague of Puksic signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Kontič, who appointed me in his debate when I spoke about nervousness, of course I didn't mean you or your parliamentary group, but those nervous people who left the meeting with two sentences, while some stayed as figures here. So you didn't understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Report, Mr. Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's going to be a little easier now that there's been a change in the leadership of the National Assembly. It is certainly worth discussing around Article 14 and this amendment. Unfortunately, it's not possible if there's been an obstruction and if there are no colleagues when both amendments were tabled in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u72	Mr. Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u73	We're talking about Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u74	Mr. Friday, please come in.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I think that all Members have also received a letter from the Ptuj Mayor, Mr Chelan, who has asked us to adopt provincial legislation in this House. I think he's exactly the kind of LDS that obstructs today's meeting of the National Assembly. In Slovenia we have three important milestones. The first is the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the second is the accession to the European Union and NATO, and the third is the division of Slovenia into the provinces, according to my assessment. Against independence, some have voted against, even against, joining NATO and the European Union, and we must expect some against Slovenia's membership in the provinces. Most Slovenes, as well as most municipal councils, want Slovenia divided into 14 provinces, as demonstrated by public debates. And obviously here we want more in the countryside than in urban centres or in Ljubljana itself. People want decentralisation, but decentralisation means more equitable development. However, experience in Europe has shown that regionalisation leads to development and I hope that we will also be able to bring this matter under the roof in this National Assembly. As it is said, article 14 and the amendment could be much talked about, grinded and finished, unfortunately, colleagues are not here. Otherwise, I cannot support him in such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Excuse me. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the Zares Group. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Let me run the session. Check-in, please. Mr Kristian Janc has the first word to discuss the amendment of Article 19 of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice welcome to all present in this debate, according to my opinion, is very important, unfortunately very insignificant after the composition of the National Assembly. Unfortunately. However, we are in Article 19, and we can say more about a sentence than was said earlier in the previous Vice-President of the National Assembly. Surely here are the dilemmas, the dilemmas were always among Members, among mayors, municipal councils, in what way is the most fair, objectively elect the provincial chief: indirectly or directly. And here, this amendment certainly shows the path of the parliamentary group that obstructs today's meeting of the National Assembly to think differently. Of course, to be elected mayor directly or president of the country, these are two elections that give special weight to the candidate who is elected in such or other ways. Perhaps even such thinking, which was among many also in the coalition, that if the mayor was elected directly, perhaps the provincial chief and the president of the state that some hierarchy is here. Some logic is, certainly, and also to some such amendment that is proposed, believe me, it has not grown completely in one circle, a narrow environment, but this thinking is quite broad. I have also discussed this a lot with local communities, mayors, such and different LDS and other political options. And the letter we've received now also indicates what a dissimilarity there is inside one of the same parties. Some who represent many mayors in this region support this story, support 90% of this provincial legislation. Those who somehow have a mission chosen in these places from this same option today obstruct this meeting of the National Assembly. Strange world! It's the wrong world. Or by the second year when the national elections will be held, they will come to them again to ask: How are you doing, what are you doing, or will you support me? This is a problem for some who lose contact with the local community, contact with voters, contact with that part of the people they put in this National Assembly. That's hard to understand, I can't understand, I'm sorry. I'm just among the electorates every day, and I'm monitoring these contacts. After all, I see how they feel about my work, about the work of the coalition, about the work of this legislation as important as that of the province. And this is how we deal with it, as if it's none of our business, "I don't care, because we've been talking about it for ten years, and it's not going to be any of that" and so on. In short, I cannot understand these decisions and such thoughts. However, Article 19 speaks of this amendment's desire for direct elections. Really, there are two variants, variant A, variant B, there is no third. And this is where the policy will end up, more of which support such or other principles. I'm closer to what people say directly, directly. That's it, that's the mayor's story, right there. If you get a mandate, you have some power. However, it is likely that the arguments against this are different, decisions that perhaps even of the loved ones in the world can choose their own representative to lead. But it is also true that they can replace it, as it is called, so it can be written off. What's better, what's worse, is judgment. And last but not least about this amendment, we must be united here too. Unfortunately, we will find it difficult to unify ourselves if even the proposer of this amendment is not in the House of the National Assembly. Then how do we unify ourselves? And when we want to find compromises when we want to find ways to do this, of course we can't, because some people just don't give us these options and they don't want to. But there have been so many, I repeat, so many debates that we have had at various levels, at local, regional, in the National Assembly, in the parliamentary groups, where we seek and want to, but I think there is so much effort, not because it comes from the types of SLS that the team with Minister Žagar has made for this legislation, for this field of coordination, no one has done this in three years. But at the end of the day, you're joking so much that you're just obstructing, and I don't care, I don't care, I'm going to have a nice cup of coffee, but hello! This seems insulting to me to such an important area, to the great support of the Slovenians to this provincial legislation. If 90% of Slovenian municipalities support this legislation, this is where Members go with such an unsettling attitude towards this legislation, however they vote. However, it is right to cooperate and seek amendments, compromises they do not like, and we know that a whole bunch of amendments have also been adopted in coordination on the labour force. And all those who weren't, maybe today we'll be coordinated here. Thank you for the effort that has been made between the parliamentary groups before. The day was a good proposal by the President of the National Assembly, and you did not accept it if you did, and that is not good. So, to insist that this matter will not go through because it is proposed by this coalition, this ministry, I do not know that this is not good in Slovenia, without any arguments. That is what I think, especially those who have unfortunately lost contact with the base, say to the elector that where they were elected to this National Assembly, no matter what option they come from. And that hurts me, and that worries me, and if this is how the story goes forward, then this legislation, though we can accept it in this first package with majority support, but that's not it. This legislation is so important that it should have the majority support of the National Assembly, as it was when adopting a constitutional amendment. Unfortunately, at this time, so many things have changed to this day, I don't know why. Is anyone afraid of landscapes, who is afraid of development, who is afraid of the way for Slovenia to be even more successful than in this area? But without this story, certain parts of Slovenia will certainly not get in touch with what they want. And the size of the landscapes, the number of landscapes, the people who live, doesn't depend on success. We have a number of municipalities that are small, but they are extremely successful, they have a good mayor, they have good leadership, they don't have good municipal councils, they don't do politics like we do. But here in the National Assembly, it's very important that this, not someone suggests something, it's important who proposes something. But this is the wrong world, and in this case we could get a little bit of unity, ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking about the future of Slovenia, and if we follow all other legislations, European stories, even in the province, let's say once on this car: this is not yet valid, this is not yet valid, we change this, let's fix it, let's go with the story forward. This is what I would like as a mayor and a Member of Parliament, because for ten years I have been fully in favour of this happening once. And I believed that with constitutional changes, that this would happen, that the will was in this House, in this mandate that this could happen, but obviously today, some Members, some who have already advocated that this is not the case yesterday. I'm sorry, but I'm still an optimist because the hope of the last one is dying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Hope is the last to die, but sometimes it dies, unfortunately. Along with the project, you can. I do not understand these discussions in the direction: the amendment is good, the amendment is worth discussing, because those who propose the amendment are not in the Chamber, we will not support the amendment. It doesn't make sense here. If the matter is a good one, if the solution is a good one, we will support it, whether or not the proposers of this amendment are here. You support the government's decision many times, but it's not here. But good, it's more like a call. This article is very important. Very important. It's a direct election of the president of the province. With this article we in fact condition our support for this law, the law on the provinces. We therefore condition the adoption of the amendment to Article 19, where we delete the jurisdiction of the provincial council to elect the president of the province, and in this regard I also believe that Article 25, which gives the possibility of a direct election, is an option. It is true and I agree with those who also raise concerns about this solution. If we compare this at the local level with the current regulation, when we love such a legislative body, of course it is not entirely comparable to the municipal council with the National Assembly, as well as the mayor with the administration is not comparable with the government and with the ministers, but it is some kind of painting, but not literally, we elect the municipal council in direct elections and we elect the mayor in direct elections. Here some then warn that there can be a conflict between the mayor who is directly elected and the world. But these two are forced to cooperate, they need to find a common language, and they need to find cooperation if they want to successfully run the local community. That is why I think that this solution to the direct elections is certainly better. And when we talk about the direct elections of the president of the province, let me stress that this is still important at a time when the provinces will be in the process of setting up, when the provinces will be in our Slovenian space, and when the provinces will meet with birth spasms and it will be very important what role will be played by the so-called executive branch at the provincial level and not only legislative in the role of the provincial world. In this situation, we need the president of the province, who will have a certain authority, who will also have the opportunity to then acquire funds for this province, to put this province, as I said, into a space, to negotiate with those with whom it will have to negotiate, but not to deal again every day, every month with a coalition that will be formed within the provincial council, and to continue to check whether he still has the support of the saints who gave him the vote to become the president of the province, or whether he will actually have to say goodbye to that position. In fact, the President will deal more with himself, with the provincial council, than is the task of the president of the province. We believe that it is important now to elect the president of the province in direct elections. And as I said in the introduction, this decision is very important and will have a profound impact on our relationship with the law on the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I think it makes sense to discuss both articles together, both on the 19th and the 25th, because not only is it a warning that the amendment to Article 25 is irrelevant if the amendment is not adopted by the 19th, but mainly because it is a very important change that brings a completely different, not only insight, but also the actual functioning of the administration, the leadership of the province, led by a directly elected president, who not only has a moral higher authority, but is, in fact, a person who performs his function somehow in terms of comparing presidents at the state level, in terms of the presidential system, such as France, Russia, the United States of America and so on, of course at a much lower level. It is important to know that much in a large number of European countries or in part, depending on how federal states are within a federal country, within an individual country is organised or in whole or even at the basic referendums in each province, often the presidents of the provinces are also loved directly. Specifically, in our immediate neighbourhood, a referendum some three, four years ago decided that Furlania-Julian landscape would have a directly-loved president. And he's got it. And it is certainly useful to compare this with our system for the Slovenian National Community on the other side of the border. Since he was elected President, who took a firm stand on the side of the Slovenian National Community, he also drew representatives of the left who helped to protect the rights of the minority to the Land Council. I do not mean to say that this would now be widespread in Slovenia, but surely a person with such authority is better at leading the country. At the same time, due to the possible unequal composition of the province's world, it must show exceptional political, diplomatic maturity, tolerance, the ability to negotiate, which [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A person who is elected directly will not have to enforce them indirectly, but will always be struck or will not or will not achieve the objective of coherent leadership of the province. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of applications for Article 19, amendment. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am really surprised by the adverbs who somehow conditioned if this amendment is accepted, whether you vote in favour of this law or not. I think it would be good to look at or know what is said in Article 26, which defines the powers of the president of the province. I wouldn't just say he has very great powers, but he has great responsibilities. And I think that at least in the first term, if the provinces are established, what the Government is proposing is very important, it is said that the indirect elections are not direct. See what it says: it proposes a budget, it adopts a final account, and we leave a final account, it proposes the budget and other important acts that will need to be adopted in the first term. I don't know if something like this is going to happen, because it's not a good preview of the first term when the municipal council is headed by the President of the Council, it's not a comparison, you're going to say, "Yes, but now I'm speaking the opposite," because I know that fellow Pecan is already saying that. But, look, that's when the conflict started. Why was there a conflict? Because I'd say one organ, the mayor was on one shore, the president of the world on the other. But at least here I think that, in the first term, when it is also necessary to launch these provinces in all respects, in particular from a developmental point of view, to carry out certain projects and if there is no consensus on one hand between the President of the provincial administration and the provincial council, then it may be possible that certain roadblocks will be set, certain roadblocks on the performance of the tasks. This is certainly not what we want, and I would like to point out once again that it is very important for me to have the law or that this article is as it is written. But it is not said that after the first elections in four years we will not do so or change it. Once again, I say this amendment, and at the same time I think it concerns Article 25, I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. But I would ask Members if they would calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Well, there must be arguments for and against one or the other solution: whether to elect the president of the province directly or indirectly. Now, some of this has already been said by the predecessor, I think the essence of deciding which solution is more appropriate is deciding on the basis of jurisdiction. And the law states that the president of the province is the executive body of the provincial council, representing the provincial council, leading and citing its meetings. It is said to be the executive body of the provincial council. We, if we pull some kind of parallel, I think it's harder to draw it with the congregations, much easier with the government and the National Assembly. We appoint a government in this National Assembly, we have another case of the State Council, the President of the State Council being named by himself. That's what I think that key is. But there is another moment in the provinces, I think, also very important. It will be very difficult in the provinces of direct elections for the head of the province to include someone from a smaller environment, very difficult. If I caricature, say, the Coastal Region - very difficult in the current relation of someone from Izola, I can't tell how capable they are, or if I don't speak to someone from Illyrian Bistrica. Koper will play a dominant role in the case of direct elections and the question may be that this is good, but it can be bad. However, I believe that the essential answer to this question is competence. And just as it is now written in the law, I think a few more arguments are in favour of what is now written in the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič, please. Excuse me, Mr. Branko Marinic, you have the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In addressing this amendment, which you are proposing under Article 19, my opinion is entirely autonomous. Either way, either a coalition or within a parliamentary group, or if we are looking at the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or of the competent ministry, let me express total autonomy in deciding on such important legislation as provincial legislation. I come from places where Slovenia has forgotten at the decision centre. Today many households, over 200 of them in the Haloz area, are waiting for drinking water from public water. Individual connectors, which must be provided by themselves, also exceed six net salaries per individual. And if you propose to amend or delete the first indent of Article 19, I am in favour of reaching a consensus that we are really serious about adopting this legislation. Also below, when you propose some changes, I am, too, just to achieve decentralisation, which is the basis and condition for faster development. So, if I simplify: do we delete the first indent and the president of the province we love in direct elections, we will simply elect him in direct elections, because this is our domain, this is a matter of politicians that we decide on, this is not a matter of coalition, this is not a matter of opposition, but it is the opinion of all Members that they decide for themselves. And I said that I am immediately ready to support this, including this amendment to support it, and let's move on with the provincial legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Well, look, it's worth the effort, it's worth talking about, and more importantly, it's worth listening to each other. I was pleased to hear from my fellow Member, Kontić, who did not understand me once before, and his announcement of support for Article 19 which, as a result, also of the 25th article tabled by the Zares Group, means the continuation of the adoption of this legislation and the establishment of the province, because a two-thirds majority is needed. I am convinced that it is already a real time after 12 years of local self-government, that we will get provincial legislation and possible significantly faster and better provincial development than it has been so far, which has been driven from the centre. The arguments, i.e. those who say that we will win another election with this, are not true because the elections to the province's world are simultaneously, including the election of the president of the province. Whether it is easier or harder to work if you are directly or indirectly elected, if you have a coalition behind you, or if you do not have one, depends on the case. In any case, those who are directly elected will have to talk to the provincial council, have consensus and simply have to talk. This is what I started with today: he will have to sit down and know how to listen. And that is not always bad if we ever do something that is different for ourselves, and we do it because we listened to others. Sometimes this leads to better results, perhaps not at the time, but on the longer term it often turns out to be good. I am also prepared to support these two amendments, and I look forward to furthering the consideration of the other three laws and to making this story not for us, Members of Parliament and Members, but for citizens and citizens, so that we will still cross those thresholds that my colleague Marinic spoke about, that in the 21st century people will also have drinking water. And responsibility in the provinces will be significantly greater and significantly easier to carry out certain projects than now by the centre and by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening a new application. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I must say that I will not support the amendment to Article 19 of the Lands Act proposed by my colleagues from the Zares Group. I want to pull some parallels. A victorious party or a victorious coalition in the state-run elections sets up a government. It is normal for a coalition, a ruling coalition and a government to work hand in hand. Parliamentary coalition is the legislative branch of the government, the executive branch of the government. When we move to the province, the president of the province is actually defined as the executive body of the provincial council or the executive authority. And if there is no hand-to-hand action between the provincial council and between the President, then this will not be a developmental landscape, and that is what I want most. As the first priority in the decentralisation of Slovenia or the establishment of the provinces, I place the development component of the provinces. Let us look through Slovenia, find some examples of municipalities where the municipal councils simply do not recognize the mayors that they have been properly elected and are thus bred. Today I will not talk about the names of these congregations, perhaps at any of the following meetings. And such a congregation, of course, stands still and there is no development. It's a guess to the mayor. Any proposal made by the mayor to the municipal council, the municipal council a priori demolishes without arguments, but on the basis of power. And here, I am also afraid, it may or may not occur, in some elections, that he will be elected, let's say that the president of the province would be elected directly, that the elected president would be a respected or respected citizen or a citizen of that province, an eminent person, if you want, but the provincial council would not support him for political affiliation or for any other reason. Such a province has no chance of being a developmental province. And that's what I'm worried about. However, if the provincial council is within itself, i.e. the same among itself, elect the first one, who has the same voting right and so forth, namely the President of the Regional Council, there is only one significantly greater likelihood that this legislative branch of the provincial authority and the executive branch of power will operate and function hand in hand, that is to say, developmental and successful. These are my arguments that will not support the amendment to Article 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I have very little time, so very quickly. Firstly, I am not quite sure that Mr Pukšič understood me very well. Secondly, all those of you who listed the arguments for the indirect elections thank you. These are the arguments. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] For direct elections, everything you've listed. But I don't agree that some of you have calculated who can be elected, who doesn't, and not the fact that we could have a good president, but we sacrifice him so that there won't be a conflict between the provincial council. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much again. The amendment to Article 19, which relates to Article 25, and these thoughts followed in the National Assembly. I was clear enough in the debate in my opinion and said that there are dilemmas, opinions not only among Members, even among the mayors, between Slovenian municipalities and so on, how and what is better. I am a proponent of what I have tried, so being directly elected is certainly more, something applies in space. And the mayor, who has been elected in this way, certainly has his weight, his trust. And when it's installed, only the electorate can drop it, no provincial or municipal council. So, this is certainly an advantage that I myself support mainly because, if the mayor is so elected, then it is also right that he is the head of the province, to the president of the country. Then that's how this story of direct election ends. And I think that the same weight as the mayor and the provincial council is, in the same way, the responsibility for the development of both municipalities and future provinces is certainly a fundamental reason for success. As far as the inside is concerned. The search for a coalition. Every good mayor, always with good projects gets support in the municipal world. But if he does his job headlong and makes mistakes with that view, he does not receive support from the place or coalition or from the congregational saints. It's the same story that I think is passed on to the landscape world. The President of the Council, who will be elected directly, will have his own members of the world there from different parties, from different backgrounds, and if, of course, he poses what is good for the province from one congregation to another, he will certainly receive support. This is how normal municipal councils work, and so, I think a normal provincial future world can work. And that would certainly be the right choice, and especially because I know that opinions are shared, this support and this amendment can be a positive step towards moving - what I have said several times today: we are looking for compromises and consensus on common good. It is not a province for coalition, it is not a province for opposition, it is for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's my principle, it's always been, and it always will be, and I'm sure it will be. Perhaps the only fear is that in certain provinces, perhaps smaller congregations that make up more congregations in the province, and probably those potential candidates from small congregations are more difficult to get into the story of the future president of the province. But this is another story that is again a matter of individual judgment, perhaps easier through indirect elections to the province's world. But it also does not match those expectations that if you are directly elected, certainly more valid, it is sweeter, it has more power in all decisions. But any coalition is predestined to non-results, depending on who runs this country's world. Last but not least, as is the case with the National Assembly, the one who will lead the provincial council will be responsible for all the congregations in this province and will have to breathe well with all the congregations if it is to be successful and if it is ever to repeat this mandate in direct elections. That's a fact. And the results at the end count. They count whether you've done something like a landscape boss or not. If you're not - say goodbye to the next term, just like in the mayor's story. That's exactly the same thing. So my tendency, here I have no problem with this, and I support this amendment on the 19, the 25th, and if it helps us get through these procedural complications forward, I will be the first to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Here you go, please. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. You know, it bothers me that some, now I don't know what the reasons or the arguments are, you're hiding that it's going to be in the future or if there's a landscape, there's going to be no politics in between. You know, if that's what you're thinking, then it would be best if there weren't. Then it would be best to remain 14 regions of development and the same system of management or management of these regions, to share funds that are now somehow being shared, and to carry out other tasks as far as possible. I did this a year ago, and I think a year ago, when we even started explaining about the provinces, he mentioned this between the lines. You know, some of you are doing fine here now, and we'll say yes, because there will be no political decision. There will be some important political decisions. And the fact that someone now declares that all these arguments that some of us have cited speak precisely for the purpose of direct elections for the President of the provinces, and indeed, I must say, I do not understand. I think that a better comparison than my colleague Horvat mentioned earlier could not be said. But that's politics. That's why we have a coalition and opposition in this National Assembly. And we will probably have a coalition and opposition as well as a government in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you. I note that there are no more candidates for debate, so I am concluding the debate on Article 19. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. We can continue because I can see that there are no debaters. I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the Zares Group. A lot has been said about this article, along with 19. I'm guessing there's no debaters. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. There are no debaters. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 66 and the amendment of the Zares Group. No one is applying to the debate, so I am concluding the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.35. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill of love in the suburbs. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Regional Elections Act is the second fundamental law in the area of provincial law, which allows for elections to be made to the authorities of the province, that is to say the provincial council. The law regulates electoral law, electoral system, electoral bodies, general, early and alternate elections, candidateing, voting and electoral outcomes, and the protection of electoral law. The transitional and final provisions specifically regulate the first elections to the provincial council. At the time of the consideration of the draft law in the home labour body, the amendments were also supported, whose content improves the solutions of the proposed law and, above all, the electoral rights of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. In fact, the right to vote and to be loved is vested in all members of both national communities who are registered in a special electoral directory. And in the second part, in particular with regard to the composition of the electoral committees, the Constitutional Court's decision was taken to ensure that the members of the electoral committees cannot be persons who are in a relative or similar relationship with candidates. The draft law in Article 31 thus provides that the proposer must inform the members of the electoral committee no later than 5 days after the publication of the list of candidates of the competent electoral commission whether the appointed member of the electoral committee is a spouse or a child or one of the parents of any of the candidates on the list. These are the most important additions or improvements to this law, so I also propose to the esteemed assembly to adopt this legislation at second reading, and also to allow the adoption of the provincial legislation and the final objective of establishing the provinces to continue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I ask the President, Mr. Franz Jazbec, to give a message to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 14th regular session, on 10.10.2007, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law on elections in the provinces submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. Meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of the Government as law-makers, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Union of the municipalities of Slovenia and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly sent a proposal for a law on 30.5.2007, the first hearing, in the opinion of the municipalities and fixed the time limit for sending opinions to the National Assembly on 29 June 2007. At its 30th regular meeting on 13.7.2007, the National Assembly held a general debate on the draft law. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia on local self-government and regional development, the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Pomurje Hungarian Nationality Community, the reports of the Commission on Nationalities of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the municipalities of Krk, Mokronog, Trebelno, Municipality of Ljubljana, the municipalities of Hrastnik, Starša, Municipality of Celje, the municipalities of Renče-Vogrisko, the municipalities of Lithuania, Prebold and Gornji Petrovci, the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the proposals to complement the association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the proposed laws on amendments of the members of the Coalition on amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian Nationality of Hungary. At its opening meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the coalition parliamentary groups had taken into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law in the amendments. In doing so, he drew particular attention to the still insufficiently clear solutions proposed in relation to Articles 27 and 31 of the draft law. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee went on to discuss the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled at the second reading of the draft proposal by qualified candidates: the Coalition's Group of Members of Parliament, the Group of Members of Parliament and the Hungarian Nationalities. The amendments have withdrawn the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 85. However, the Committee adopted the following amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 5, 7, 18, 35, 39, 78, 79, 81, 83, 86 and 87. The Committee did not adopt the following amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 6, to Chapter 2 - electoral systems and to the second chapter to the title of Sub-Chapter 3 - electoral unit and to the second chapter and to the new Chapter 3 - the election of the President of the province. The Committee also did not adopt the amendments of Articles 6, 17, 27, 31, 46 and 63 of the Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities. With the adoption or non-admission of amendments, the following amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members have become irrelevant to 7, 16, 17, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 33, 35, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 51, including 63, 64, 65, 66, 68, 69 and 71 to 81, and 84 and 85, respectively. The Committee adopted the following amendments to Articles 6, 11 and 31, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and adopted them together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 23.10.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. We will support the amendment in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. At the same time, I would say that if this amendment had not been tabled by the Really Group of Members, we were aware of this, we would have tabled it. This is because this law, as well as the law on the provinces, completely abandons the idea or not the idea, but the constitutional category of the Roma ethnic community and again ignores the possibility that Roma in the provinces where they live would have the opportunity to have a representative in the provincial council of their own representative. We therefore believe that it is right that both Article 6 and Article 7 lays down the condition that they are also loved and have a passive and active electoral right, including Roma. At the same time, I would like to point out that there may be a conflict between the Law on the Elections of the Provinces and the Law on the Provinces, if there is a possibility that members of the coalition parties will also have to come into direct elections of the President of the Province, if the amendment is adopted by the 19th and 25th articles of the Law on the Provinces, the Law on the Elections of the Provinces will also have to be aligned with those amendments. And I would like to give a third warning about this law. It is that the Law on the Elections of the Provinces has not been incorporated or has not been incorporated into it by the proposer of two decisions of the Constitutional Court, namely one decision relating to the composition of the election committees and the election committees to be appointed or appointed in the context of the elections in the provinces. Secondly, he did not determine how to vote by post, which would exclude any possibility of misapplication, in relation to the correct recording of votes coming to the electoral commission, to the electoral commission by post. We now have the opportunity to see this in relation to the election of the President of the State, and I think that what we are now receiving from the territory, from abroad, reinforces the fact that the Electoral Law in the provinces in this area is certainly incomplete and that it is necessary - given that the second reading in the framework of the working body has allowed only 6th and 7th articles to be amended, to which, of course, such provisions cannot be introduced, it has now come to the point that this law is, only in other readings, in fact, unconstitutional. For this reason, it will probably be necessary if the Government and the Coalition do not decide to amend this law immediately thereafter, to initiate an assessment of the constitutionality of this law and the validity of this law will come much later, as if the Government and the Coalition had decided to amend or amend this law as well as the Lands Act in a way that would actually be harmonised throughout the National Assembly. We therefore call, in addition to adopting the two amendments to Article 6 and Article 7 of the amendment to the Parliamentary Group, today's meeting, to give serious thought to their internal circles, in order to take action and, following the adoption of these three laws, also to initiate a new procedure for the immediate correction of all three laws, so that they are also in line with the Law establishing the original competences of the provinces and establishing powers to be transferred to the provincial level from the country level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I personally do not see the slightest need to support this amendment in any way, because it is again trying to put the Roma community in a privileged position here. Indeed, in many areas, the Roma community already has a virtually two-fold electoral right when we look at elections in the municipal world, first they have the right to vote for all candidates who are, and then, in particular, elect representatives from the Roma population themselves. This is discriminatory for the rest of the population in Slovenia. But to go in the same way now in the elections in the provinces, this is a great deal of something, I can say, also cynicism, to try again to favour the Roma, who actually have all their rights in other legislation equally respected. I agree that the national community, both Hungarian and Italian, is specifically saved here, but this is already in the original text, and this is a minority that already has a special status after the constitution, and it is right that this is also the case. However, there is no need or discriminating to give some privileges here only to the Romani community. Last but not least, it can be a big difference between the provinces, we know that one can have very large Roma populations, the other has fewer and some don't even have one. Thus, the very way would be extremely demanding for some fairness in the very setting of these rules. Neither 6th nor 7th Amendments will I under any circumstances support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u106	Mr. Pojbich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u107	Mr. Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, this amendment to Article 6 of the Proposal for a Law on Elections to the Provinces of the Applicant, we will not really support this amendment because the proposed law does not regulate the electoral rights of the Roma communities. The reason or basis for such a solution is the fact that the province does not exercise the specific rights of the Roma community, which are regulated and derived from the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia. Nevertheless, it forms a provincial council in which the Roma community, a special working body, resides in individual municipalities. And also, Mr Vice President, I think there is something else that I must stress in particular. It seems extremely important to me to say that the parliamentary groups that are obstructing the treatment of this legislation today clearly show how much they care about our citizens and citizens. In the last 10 years, by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially the already degraded area from which I come alone, this is the Municipality of Šentilj, Pesnica, Kungata, if we look at Prekmurje, Koroško, there is a clear signal that the decentralisation of the country is necessary, which would result in more coherent regional development, which is essential for reducing the differences between regions, and instead we have been obstructed. Where is the responsibility, the morality of absent Members and Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u108	Mr Pojbich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u109	Where is their sense of social welfare? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u110	You've moved away a few times. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u111	And a little man? [[...]] Where are they? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u112	Excuse me! Mr. Pojbich!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u113	So many words of demagology and deception? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u114	Mr Pojbich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u115	Mr Vice-President, we will not support these two amendments in the parliamentary group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u116	Well, that's what I wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u117	However, we will support the proposal for a law in the proposed content. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u119	I wonder if my predecessor had the authority to speak like that. But I would say that in Article 65 of the Constitution we specifically state, the State of Slovenia, citizens and citizens, that Roma have special rights. And when it comes to minorities, I stress, minorities, whether it is national, sex, age or any other minority, it is the rights of these minorities or the possibilities of these minorities to exercise their rights in society, including in Slovenian society, that are determined and regulated in such a way as to discriminate positively. If some in the National Assembly have not heard of the concept of positive discrimination, then go and read some literature about it and you will understand what this means. The Italian, Hungarian minority, and thus a specific minority, called the Roma ethnic community, are not a national minority, but an ethnic community, because it has different characteristics than the Italians and Hungarians in Slovenia. They have the right to positive discrimination and this positive discrimination can only be carried out on the basis of legal provisions. One type of positive discrimination is also the special electoral right enjoyed by Hungarians, who are held by Italians and held by Roma in municipalities. Since the fact that Roma are limited to just a few future provinces to a smaller number, far from fourteen, is more of a matter for about three provinces, it is only conditional that in these provinces we allow the Roma to have a saint in the provincial council of their own. And having a double election right is nothing special. This is happening from state to municipal level with representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, so I do not understand why it would not be the same with Roma at the provincial and municipal level. In the National Assembly, it would probably be very difficult for us to adopt the Law on Elections in the National Assembly because of the well-known intolerance of a large part of Members and Members so that we could also have a representative of the Roma community in Slovenia. It does not seem to me that something would be wrong if even in the National Assembly we had a double electoral right, with the second election right of the Roma, to have an elected representative of the Roma. Unfortunately, however, it is not expected that in the early 21st century we could come to this in Slovenia. Maybe we'll come in the first half of the 21st, maybe even in the first quarter of the 21st century. However, I think it would be terrible if Members and Members of the National Assembly finally came to the conclusion that, at least at the level of the municipality and the province, we would grant Roma the right to represent ourselves. In this way, we will hear their voice when necessary, perhaps every time we are in the provincial world and in the municipal world of the provinces or congregations where the Roma are still living, we will be able to hear what all the Roma really need to integrate into this society and to preserve their characteristics while at the same time engaging in the normal everyday life of this society. Therefore, I believe that opposition to such an amendment only points to the level of tolerance in this National Assembly, because I believe that in this country we do not have such a low level of tolerance to minorities, but that in this case the National Assembly does not reflect the whole of society in Slovenia, because society in Slovenia is much more tolerant than many Members in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Drofenik, please. Excuse me, did you have a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I would say at the outset that I do not support this amendment for simple reasons, because I believe that there is nothing problematic in Article 6 as far as constitutionality is concerned and as far as the rights of Italian and Hungarian nationalities are concerned. Of course, ethnic communities such as Roma are not included here, and this amendment is trying to introduce this. I would say that I would not fully agree and compare the ethnic community with the minority communities, if I said so, Italian and Hungarian, that is the first. Secondly, I would say that we also have the protection of Roma communities and rights at the local level and in those local communities where these communities live, they also have the right to participate in municipal councils. Of course, we all know that tolerance is sometimes also a sensitive subject and sometimes, by exaggeration, positive discrimination can also trigger certain negative things in the rest of society. Far from being a society as a whole, however, it can go against certain ethnic groups or against it, but exaggeration with certain matters can also trigger such matters. I do not believe that this amendment to Article 6 is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you again very much for your word. I am surprised that the expression of the national minority is mixed here and that the other minorities, ethnic or religious, or whatever they call it. If each minority wanted to ensure such positive discrimination to allow electoral rights, then it would also be for some citizens from other republics of the former Yugoslavia to be an Orthodox community, to be a Muslim community, to be from Croatia, to be anyone else, not least of the same-sex community. This means that all these communities should also have a special electoral right here. I think this is again a injustice to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that minorities must be given positive discrimination, but double voting rights certainly cannot be positive discrimination. As we know, we have adopted the Law on the Roma Community, where we have cited a number of positive discriminations or solutions that will enable them to develop in their cultural and linguistic fields. But there's no need to interfere with double voting rights. Why do I think that way, or I'm sure? Each Roma community or other community can be organised in a manner prescribed by law, so that they have their representatives on lists or in any other way. And they can also perform equally equally in the race for the cities of saints or other organs. An example from practice. In the New Town where I come from, we have two Roma saints. The first Romani saint was elected in the manner prescribed by law, by special elections, where a Romani saint was elected, while the other Romani saint was elected on another list, in direct elections, in a manner like everyone else. This means that if a desire is of interest, without any problems or reservations, anyone who wishes to participate here can be properly organised and performed equally. There is no need for such discrimination, especially to our other citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I wasn't going to talk about this subject, but because you talk so much about this equality or justice and injustice and positive discrimination, I would still remind you of two things. Each Member shall also be elected after two rounds of voting, one in the party, the other in the elections. Let's put this aside. There's something else I'd like to point out. Your vote against the other citizens of Slovenia is worth 1,500 votes. As a Member, you can replace 5,000 signatures with three signatures, which citizens must collect to run for office. But that's how we decided in law. And I apply 1,500 citizens of this country. My signature is valid for their 1,500 signatures. And I'm not going to go into a discussion and a philosophy about it. But I'd like to draw attention to something else. If the problem is in Slovenia, and the obvious problems are, there is a need to solve them in a positive direction, for the benefit of both the Roma community and all of us, then we as possible legislators in this case, if this contributes to some positive solutions, so that we also decide to sit as a saint of the Roma community in the provincial world. And I'm not going to talk about the constitution, and I'm not going to talk about the proportions between the different minorities, the nationalities, the ethical and so on. But if we see that it is a problem and if it helps to solve this problem, then we now have the opportunity to do so through another niche. In my opinion, one councilman of the Roma community, who will sit in one of the provinces' worlds, cannot do any harm, and he can do much to do so. That's my view of this problem, and I didn't want to hear from it. Once again, I would point to this injustice or to the fairness that I am valid for 1,500 signatures of other citizens. But in the past, it was the decision of those who wrote the Law on Elections in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Zares Group. I find that there are no debaters, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.35. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on the financing of landscaping. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Dr. Jagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! You are moving on to the consideration of the last law in this package, although I still believe that all the matter of future landscapes, which is currently under discussion, is, of course, at a different stage as regards the adoption of the law, because otherwise it is not possible. And I think today's debate has already led to this. As regards the proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces, it provides the provinces with adequate resources which are proportionate to the tasks to be delegated to them. Finally, this was confirmed by the Government by a decision in connection with the adoption of the 2009 budget, where a projection of the financing of future provinces, as well as the transfer of personnel, was also adopted. The law is prepared in accordance with the principles of financial and fiscal decentralisation. This means that when we are talking about a financial neutral operation, when no new taxes are introduced, new taxes are being introduced, the provinces are financing the tasks under their jurisdiction with the share of the duties that so far belonged to the state budget, and in the future they will belong to the budgets of the provinces. This should also be borne in mind when considering the amendment. The law also contains solutions that constitute the basic principle of decentralisation, including fiscal decentralisation, namely an appropriate distribution of income, taxes and other duties by province in such a way as to enable the provinces to carry out their tasks and that they may also have sufficient resources for the so-called development and investment tasks. This law has also been properly upgraded in a number of coordination at different levels, including in the parliamentary groups, and I personally assess that in terms of improvement. Finally, the law was also perfected by the adoption of some amendments, or by the summary of amendments in some of the solutions of opposition candidates, including those who are unfortunately not here today. I think it would be useful to take part in further discussions, so I regret their absence. In particular, I would like to draw attention to those amendments that have actually been substantively supplemented by the law or the most. An amendment to Article 3 has been adopted, which provides that, if, in agreement with the municipality, we transfer individual tasks to the province, the municipality must also provide the province with the appropriate means to carry out these tasks. When we carry things up, of course, in agreement, the municipality must also carry up the appropriate proportion of financial resources. The amendment to Article 4 provides that the revenue referred to in this Article shall be indicated to the provinces on a weekly basis. This is extremely important for ensuring the financial liquidity of the provinces. Article 5 increases the proportion of decommissioned income to the provinces, namely excise duties. excise duties on alcohol and alcohol products increase from 20% to 90% and excise duties on tobacco products from 5% to 10%. However, it is also important that excise duties are divided according to the number of inhabitants of the province, given that, while the collection of these excise duties and other tax sources is extremely concentrated in individual environments. And when we look for these solutions, we cannot accept solutions as a percentage of the decommissioning of individual tax resources that might actually make it impossible for some regions to operate, which is contrary to what we want to achieve with the provinces, so to accelerate the development of especially those areas with the greatest development problems. Article 6 also provides that the sources of financing for the landscapes are also revenue from water refunds, payments for services of the provincial public services, share of concession fees and reimbursements for the use of public roads. The formula has also been changed, including on the basis of this transfer of competences in accordance with the decision adopted, a solution has been made to introduce the length of the provincial roads into the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption and a new Article 16a has also been added, which specifically provides for the financing of programmes and measures and activities for the preservation of the specific rights of national communities. Finally, Article 28 sets averages for years [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 2008 and 2009. [[...]] This is similar to the previous two laws. In this case, I also propose that the esteemed assembly approve the solutions adopted in the second reading, thereby allowing for the further implementation of the project on the establishment of the provinces necessary for the consistent development of Slovenia for the decentralisation of Slovenia, not least [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We'll find out at all levels. [[...]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I ask the President, Mr Jazbec, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 14th regular meeting on 10.10.2007, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and reception. Meetings of the committee were attended by the invited representatives of the Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, as a bill-maker, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly sent a proposal for a law on 30.5.2007 - the first reading, in the opinion of the municipalities and set the deadline for sending opinions to the National Assembly on 29 June 2007. The National Assembly held a general debate on the bill at its 30th regular session on 13.7.2007. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Committee of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the opinion of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the municipalities of Krško, Mokronog, Trebelno, the municipalities of Ljubljana, the municipalities of Hrastnik, the municipalities of Starša, the municipalities of Celje, the municipalities of Renče-Vogrsko, the municipalities of Lithuania, Prebold and Gornji Petrovci, the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the coalition and the amendments of the MPs and the amendments of Ambassador Bojan Kontic. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, at her meeting in the introduction, noted that the drafter had prepared amendments for individual solutions to comply with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and had pointed to individual, yet not sufficiently clear, solutions in the draft law, which had been specifically highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion on the draft law. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee went on to discuss the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In accordance with Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following qualified proposers have tabled the second reading of the draft law in the home working body: Members' groups of the coalition to Articles 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 12, 14 and 28 and amendments to Articles 4, 5, 14 and 28, Members' Group of Non-Aligned Members to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 14, 15 and 22; Member Bojan Kontic to Articles 4, 5, 6, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20 and 21. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and to the unaffiliated Group of Members to Articles 3 and 5 and to Members Bojan Kontič to Articles 6, 9 and 18. The Committee did not adopt the following amendments: Members' groups of unaffiliated Members to Articles 4, 6, 7, 14, 15 and 22 and Members of Parliament to Articles 4, 5, 12, 14, 15, 20 and 21. The Committee adopted the following amendments by 15 and the new amendment for the new Article 16a. The Committee continued its consideration of the articles to which no amendments had been tabled. There was no discussion on these articles at the meeting. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee set out the text of the amended draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 23.10.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Zares Group. There are no debaters. Excuse me. Article 4, Mr. Mikolitch. Would you like to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u131	I'm sorry, paragraph 5. Is Article 4 amended?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u132	Mr Mikolič, I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Would you like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I understand that no one wants to discuss this subject. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. No one's checking in. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u133	I'm sorry for actually being Article 3 before. [[...]] I must say that the proposed Article 5 is now a reflection of the current situation in Slovenia as regards the development or underdevelopment of certain areas or regions. And from this very point of view, the Government has also proposed this proposal to take account of 20% of income from income. Look, the amendment's proposer proposes an increase from 20% to 30% in order to mean some greater autonomy, so-called financial autonomy of the provinces. We see or think that only one province has no financial settlement. In view of this, at least I believe that, as long as the provinces have, they are still within the scope of financial compensation, no increased euro represents greater autonomy in terms of stimulation, so that this own resource will be as high as possible, which means that when you exceed so-called own resources, you do not need financial compensation anymore. And in this respect, or else I don't know if the mathematical calculations have been made, I'm now wondering what that means if someone is already exceeding their own resources over the financial settlement. This would probably go beyond those areas or those of the most developed regions, which is just an additional stimulus for these or not only stimulation, but more financial resources, while the rest of the provinces would remain on the same footing. This means that we do not follow the basic purpose of introducing the landscapes in order to eliminate these major development differences, so I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u134	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. I would still try to explain the consequences of this amendment. We also have prepared financial calculations here in terms of simulation, and you can get them here or split them up. With regard to the practical impact of this amendment, the situation is, in view of the fact that more provinces would become financially neutral in this sense, although we are talking about, of course, a slightly different funding system than the municipalities. We ensure that the tasks are carried out here, there is sufficient room for manoeuvre within the performance of the tasks, even for one part of the development tasks in the majority or in all the provinces, as the analyses have shown. We have also forwarded all these analyses to all the parliamentary groups. The share of the corporate income tax has been waived as a key development source. This is the development-investment part, the 25% with the limits, which are, of course, also necessary, and this also follows from the financial analyses that have been made and added here. I mean, even if we raise from 20% to 30% of the income due to income concentration in central Slovenia, and this is a problem in terms of the preparation of this law providing financial resources, because there are similar problems on other possible tax sources, the situation does not change. Only central Slovenia remains on so-called self-financing, which means that it significantly exceeds the level of appropriate spending. The problem that we have with this is then immediately related to the so-called financial neutrality of the operation as a whole, the transfer of tasks along with financial resources and human resources structures downwards, because, of course, it would mean that if we wanted to level these matters out, I regret that the representatives of the proposer are not present, and then, of course, those environments, which are why we are setting up the landscapes, especially those with the biggest development problems, need the strongest financial impulse, would be further affected by this because they should lower the average in order to compensate for the financial neutrality gap in this segment. Therefore, this proposal is unlikely to be acceptable in this respect. And I would appeal here and specifically point out that, at the moment we enter the landscape project, we have a situation at the level of tax resources, just like in Slovenia, the concentration of financial resources, of course in two places or two provinces, and that it is essential at this first stage, if we really want to accelerate the development momentum, to make financial decentralisation in terms of the reallocation of financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I think it's urgent to say a few sentences in general before I go to the amendment itself. See, today there has been a considerable debate at the outset of procedural complications, as some urgent amendments in the second reading were not adopted at the home labour body and, of course, that the opposition has not received adequate calculations under individual laws, so that it can be defined more reliably to the present three laws. However, if we look at the amendment to Article 5 and then the amendment to Article 6, Article 14, or Article 15, the rule applies to all. All amendments somehow interfere with the financing structure of the provinces and are, despite being opposition, without all calculations, what this means for the state budget, what this means for the provincial budgets and what it means for the country in general. What do I mean by that? What I'm trying to say is that the amendments are made without comparative calculations and that they're made to think that they're populist and that they're only invested in measuring the power of who they're going to be. I think that the adoption of the amendment to Article 5 is virtually unacceptable, as it should change the percentage from 20 to 30, but at least a grave calculation under such an amendment should be prepared. I won't support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Chairman. At first glance, this amendment might even appeal to someone. But it's not like that. I have little knowledge of community funding, as was the case in the past. Income raise from 30% to 35%. Who got it? Those who got too much by then. Those who were poor were even poorer. And this amendment shows a picture, what this landscape package does not follow - more consistent regional development of Slovenia, decentralisation of finance as well. And last but not least with this amendment, if we supported it, we'd get richer and poorer. This is a typical example of what we once had in Slovenian municipalities. Thank God, we now have a different model, which is fairer, more adjusted to all the provinces, if you like, to all Slovene municipalities. As well as small congregations in those areas that have little income struggles, where people earn 400, 500 euros just to pay, there, of course, is very little income for that congregation. Where wages are substantially higher than or higher than the Slovenian average, they bring significantly more. And we are all citizens of this same republic. And all congregations want to make as much money as possible and do as much as possible, these are normal congregations, and they are in the majority, for sure. With this amendment, we would certainly have broken the system. Finally, the simulations we have also show what this amendment of the parliamentary group is bringing to the one who has too much today, even more money. Unfortunately, this is not where this provincial legislation goes, realizing that the Law on the Financing of Landscapes is extremely important, and that we have all talked about it together, recalculated what it means for the future. The model prepared by the Government, however, I think it is somehow balancing these finances by future provinces in Slovenia, regardless of whether the income in some province is extremely high and so on. This is an important balanced moment, the model of which is transferred from the Law on Community Financing to the provinces. This would ruin the story back in the old days when the rich were richer and the poorer were even poorer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I myself will not support this proposal for the same reasons as have already been mentioned here in the previous debate. It is true, however, that it is symptomatic that in the Group of Social Democrats, it is a matter of making the rich even richer. And here you can see that they work solely in the interest of a few rich congregations. That's why I would somehow translate this amendment into Yankov's amendment. And why am I calling Yank's amendment? Because I was stressed yesterday when he mentioned in the pre-election propaganda that Lois Peterle was part of that coalition that hurt Ljubljana. And, of course, at this point, it must be said that Loize Peterle gave Ljubljana the most when he founded the country and became the capital. And from the capital, Ljubljana has the most, and such populist propaganda, which is reflected in this amendment, is also unjustifiable and unacceptable. Come on, be more transparent, say you are many times [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] development, but you're doing a completely different job. [[...]] Completely different, there is nothing social about a party called social, nothing social. They'd take everything from the poor, from those who don't know what kind of income and pass it on to the rich to be richer. And because of this, of course, I cannot agree with such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much. You've turned a few turns away from the set goal, which is an amendment. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u143	I would, of course, oppose those colleagues and colleagues who oppose the amendment, who do not want to do anything else but solve the major problems that were first created by amending the law or the new law on the financing of municipalities, and who will be created by the law on the financing of the provinces if we establish disabled provinces by law, as is the case now. We are here proposing to increase the share of income for the provinces in order to test the will of the coalition at all, whether the coalition is willing to provide the provinces with the resources they need to carry out their tasks, and that this should depend on the economic development of the provinces, not on the once-in-a-lifetime will of this or any political coalition. Of course, those who accompany us in the media today have an understanding, a problem with understanding problems. So allow me, President, two numbers. That's what the minister was talking about. In a way, the government says that with a law that has not yet been passed and called a law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the provinces, some say it is a technical law, but it is the most substantive law we have ever passed on to the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of regional legislation for about a billion euro tasks. However, the resources you provide, including this income source, are about 500 million euros if my calculations are correct. What kind of provinces are we establishing? We are establishing a province that will have 500 million resources that depend on the provinces, not on the good will of ministers or, if you wish, an annual law on the implementation of the budget that will determine the so-called transfer [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the provinces. [[...]] These are the handicaps for us. You're saying that with the amendment in some way, someone said it was Yank's amendment. This is how I somehow understood that we support what is happening in Ljubljana. That's right. The situation in Ljubljana is critical because the country has taken real resources by law on the financing of the municipalities of Ljubljana. But I must tell you that this situation is not only in Ljubljana, gentlemen. This situation is with hundreds of Slovene municipalities. Look at the numbers, look at the numbers in the budgets we accept. If 50%, 49.8% of the income was allocated to municipalities in 2007, only 42% were allocated to budgets in 2008 and 2009. Here, Members and Members of Parliament, you tell me a picture of the incomes of the provinces. Do you know how this problem is solved? By having one Minister of Finance working with Minister Žagar and writing a sub-legislative act requiring the tax administration to schedule income, VAT and so on, after so-called cost cities Interspara, Mercator, E`Leclerca, etc. And then you'll get completely different numbers. Each slightly more serious company knows exactly how much VAT it collected to the place of sale. And don't tell me you can't get VAT data, for all kinds of VAT on the point of origin of consumption and for VAT on sale from where the sale really was. No one will tell me that Interspar in Velenje is unable to submit and that Interspar does not have data for actual use in Velenje. Currently, all of Interspar's consumption across Slovenia is reflected in Interspar Ljubljana. But, gentlemen, this is not a matter of law. This is a problem for the executive to write a sub-legislative act and to write a few additional accounts on the Public Revenue Authority, which is calculated. That's how all countries do it. And you take the data as a base and then you work a system where 13 out of 14 provinces, if we have 14 dependent on the country. That's the wrong logic, and it's a crippled landscape! That's why our amendment is an amendment that tests the will of the coalition. Not only does it give a billion EUR 300 million to the provinces, but it also provides real resources. We are therefore taking part in this debate to show the Slovenian public what Minister Žagar has done. Minister Zhagar is doomed to failure, not because of Minister Zhagar, but because Minister Bajuk refuses to participate. And if anyone thinks that by adopting this legislation we can get good provinces, he is wrong. We'll get the provinces that have assignments, but they don't have resources. Above all, these resources are not at all dependent on economic development in the provinces, but, in the domestic sense, on what is called the seat of a legal person. Imagine that Mercury after the new settlement seat, and formally it will be, in Ljubljana. Merfin d.o.o. is, if I am not mistaken, located in Ljubljana, but Mercury is in Naklem. This substantially changes the relationship between the income tax and the VAT of Mercury in Gorenjska and Ljubljana. And so, of course, what the Ministry has presented today, and the numbers you're dialing here, you can throw that in the basket. However, it is necessary to get more detailed numbers, sometimes we had 60 municipalities and today we can have 210 or 500 units where VAT is charged. Why do you have VAT as a billing system, if not precisely because of that? And this amendment would reduce landscape disability. We must be in a situation where most of the provinces will be self-financing from 14 provinces. But you do this by distributing resources, not through the law, as it was done here, but by identifying where the resources were actually created, where economic activity is. Not that we will be in a situation, Mr Janc, when your congregation, Sevnica, no matter what happens to you in the economy, gets as much money as Jagar says. That's the situation today. [[The ad in the hall.]] Calm down! Buddy Puksich, calm down. Calm down because there's no reason. This is the reason why we have made 210 congregations of 195 or 200 municipalities dependent on the state. Here you went to the funding system of municipalities, which gives the possibility of executive power to influence the development of municipalities. And don't tell me it's a normal system. This is a system that essentially, in saying, "encourages" negative selection or increases fragmentation. And now we will have 14 provinces, 13 of which will be financed by the transfer of the Minister of Finance, please! Where's the charter on local self-government? Therefore, today's debate on this amendment needs to be seen as our contribution to reducing the disability of the provinces. And obviously, we need to get a few things straight first. I hope I've made myself clear to you and to the viewers and viewers, those who listen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Jazbec, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. As early as the morning of procedural complications, the biggest talk was about three laws that were not under discussion today. Well, something similar happened with the previous debater who discussed everything else, but at least with the amendment, which we read from the position, which is that he raises a percentage from 20 to 30 without adequate calculations. Since the summer months, we have heard comments about how the Government has failed to make calculations on this comment, but in every way possible, and in every way possible, the proposals made by the opposition. The opposition itself is making the amendments without calculations, on the finger over the finger, without any calculations and without what it means for the state budget, what it means for the country and what it means for all 14 provinces. That is exactly what, Mr Squeakl, as you mentioned, such a percentage of the increase in income will have a very positive impact on some of the provinces. What about the others? For others, it's probably not in a positive direction. Accusations and all kinds in this direction are inappropriate, and thus the proposed or tabled amendment without comparison is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u147	See, Mr Jazbec, you are the Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which has addressed the budgetary memorandum with all the documents. If you look at the figure, the revenue for 2009 is earmarked for the entire Slovenian public finances two billion 322 million 878 thousand and 10% is exactly 232 million. And 10% or 232 million will significantly reduce landscape disability as we now have. I hope that the numbers are clear to you and to the Members, we do not need to explain these numbers in explanation. If that's what you want to understand. But if, of course, the problem is that it is good that 13 out of 14 provinces are dependent on the state, and then the name of your committee needs to be changed, this is not the "Local Self-Government and Regional Development Committee", this is the "Local Non-Governmental and State-led Regional Development Committee"
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like a word now?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. I've explained this before and I'll try to explain it one more time. I am afraid that this kind of amendment could lead to this story, given, of course, the financial neutrality to which we have all been committed, so that indeed those provinces or those environments that already have the biggest development problems, which is why we are even establishing the provinces, will become additionally disabled. If you look at the comparisons that are also made by a 10% raise in income, we don't do anything about it. The remaining 13 provinces remain on the same funding system, the only central Slovenia - because this is where the most income is collected, because the most developed environment is here and, of course, the same is true for municipalities. By the way, as far as the municipalities are concerned, I absolutely cannot agree with this. The solutions went to a comparable system of financing all local environments in Slovenia, and we are probably basically committed to this. If an individual mayor is committed to providing a comparable standard across all schools, kindergartens in his municipality, then, of course, my country is committed to ensuring a comparable system of financing for all municipalities in Slovenia, such as kindergartens, schools or in all other areas. And even when we talk about the provinces, if, of course, we increase this percentage, then on the one hand, we are threatening financial neutrality, because in central Slovenia we are only still exceeding significantly more than the calculations show, this own self-financing and the other provinces are still on the so-called balance. Therefore, I am sure that these figures say that we urgently need and cannot fix the landscapes, so it is necessary to carry out decentralisation, to accelerate development, to also transfer financial resources, to gather in all environments and then to think about different funding systems in the coming stages. I am sure that in the National Assembly you probably do not want to lead to such solutions as will further impact one Koroška and one Prekmurje through the adopted provincial legislation and the Financing Act. And to this we followed in all of these solutions, which are also shown in these diagrams and figures as soon as we, of course, presented these things to you in case 14 of the provinces. We've given you these four suggestions, this is model 14, version three.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ambassadors and MPs, Mr. Minister with the team. This amendment to Article 5 to replace in the first indent of Article 5 of Article 20 by 30% is 20% of the income from income paid by the debtors with permanent residence in the province, and was said to be 10% of the EUR 238 million. We're talking about 14 provinces. We're not talking about two million people. Of these EUR 238 million, the main thing would remain in the richest province, which is the one that also has the capital. This would be exactly the same discriminatory, unfair, unfair and scandalous as the adoption in 1998 of the amendment of the Law on Community Financing, as it changed 30% from income to 35% as its own source of municipalities. And the richest congregations have become even richer. This would have happened exactly what the Minister said that some of the provinces would have completely withdrawn from this principle of financing and the principle of the law on financing in full. Since we have certain incomes or revenues from taxes and other duties in paragraph 3, now, with a raise and also other amendments, we would follow only to enrich the richest regions. Colleagues and colleagues! I am in favour of raising the income from 20 to 30 or 40, but when we have roughly equal development in this country, evenly developed country, so that every day there will not be a vehicle I don't know, 200, 500 cars from Prekmur, from Lendava and Styria to Ljubljana to work, when flows will also run in the opposite direction, from Ljubljana to Styria to work, when we will wear and dress all the children of this country roughly the same. Mr. Squeakle, you already have a fur coat and you want a fur hat. That's your way of thinking. In Lendava, in the Slovenian Gorica, and in Haloza, they have no short "gat" in winter, and you would take down these short "gate". Shame on you for thinking that way. This is a genuine cynicism towards this legislation, to citizens and citizens who have the right to live and work in this country under at least the same conditions. We have to give them that chance. That is why Mr SD's amendments cannot be supported by Mr Squeakl. They are not substantive, but they are contrary to our citizens and citizens. But we must not work against our own people. If you can afford it, you won't be the winning team in the next year's election, but you'll be the losers under the ceiling. It just doesn't work with people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u152	Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u153	My friend Pukšič, I do not want this income index to affect the population of the province, which is already over 100 in two municipalities, in two provinces already over 100, that the people of the province who will have more employment will also have something. And you know it, my friend Pukšič. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] You are well aware that the current funding system for municipalities, after which the country, with the budget adopted, took away 160 million euros from the budget proposed to the municipalities. [[...]] You know, if four municipalities went to the Constitutional Court because they took this share of income and thereby reduced their local self-government, in Slovenia today at least 100 municipalities were damaged due to the system of funding municipalities in 2008 and 2009. And we differ only in the following, that I understand regional and local development as a development where increased levels of employment in the individual municipality affect their income, and you understand it by going to one minister or another. This is a problem of the system and understanding the autonomy of local self-government. That is why I am saying that this is not regional development, but, to a large extent, it is a state-oriented regional development. This, of course, is not in the European Charter of Local Self-Government and it is not about taking anyone's irritable pants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much, again. I am very glad that it turned out or that the feathers that covered this amendment flew away. And for this amendment, my colleague Squeakl said that we would like to be tested, whether we are for the provinces, in fact, for an even development and so on. And we would be tested on an amendment that envisions even greater centralisation, the construction of only one centre and one city in the country. Running all the money into this center. I think that by making the country and putting Ljubljana as the capital, we have done this centre a great deal of good. And that's right, that's right. Here come the troupes of tourists, all the state administration is here and Ljubljana benefits from it. And that is why Mr Jankovic's unrealistic thesis is shameless that when Mr Peterle made the country, he harmed Ljubljana. Mr Jankovic should imagine who he was back then, who he was sympathetic to when the country was working with, whether he was sympathetic to those who opposed the independent Slovenian state, and some who you now support. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u156	Mr. Jerovšek, please, we're talking about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u157	No, no, that's what you have to say, that's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u158	Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u159	I'm moving on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u160	Can I have a word? There is Article 5 and the amendment in the debate, so let's stick to that, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u161	That's exactly what I'm talking about. About how much money they'll have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u162	That's what you're sure of, I don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u163	How much money they'll have in any province. [[...]] And this amendment is the one who wants to destroy the less developed landscape now. And it's exactly what my colleague Pukšič said. Every day when we drive to Ljubljana, not a couple hundred, thousands of people are bound to the capital, everything flows here. And I, my colleague of the Squill, understand that he supports the richest because he can participate well, or the circle that belongs to him, he can participate well. And the circle that belongs to him, a lot of things then flow into his pockets from such sources. And that's the key interest. And I am grateful that you have shown so vividly what you are imagining under this legislation. I'm just sorry Mr. Jelinčič isn't here. He's got the highest percentage in those most affected environments. And now he's obviously supporting these circles that want to take everything away from those people who supported him. And I would like to say whether it supports such intentions of the Social Democrats, who obviously have only one interest - that in the tentacles that have now run richly, this has been preserved, that they are at all sources of money, that with this legislation, which provides for the provinces where we say they should allow for more equitable development, including that of developing other centres - you are against it. And even for those who are not here today, we now know why they want to break the province's legislation - because it would allow for better and faster development of the landscapes. And that does not suit you politically, and this amendment is political prostitution in favour of the richest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u164	Mr. Janc, please. [[The ad in the hall.]] Please, Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u165	So that Slovenia and Slovenians, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, do not think we are misleading. Mr. Member, look at the numbers! In 2007, which we are finishing, the municipalities may have a 2% increase in expenditure. For 2008, which we will address, this growth is expected to be around 5%. But the country will grow 11%. Twice higher growth will be the growth of the country's expenditure, such as the growth of municipalities. So don’t tell me how the existing financial legislation helps the congregations! And when we add regional legislation to this, as is now stated, the differences will be even greater. Not only will 13 provinces receive, under the terms "reparation", depending on what coalitions will be in individual provinces, ministers will be more or less friendly. Now it breaks down into 210 congregations. And I don't want to see, under the terms "one province that will be right-directed", or "one province that will be left-directed", but we will have a government on the other side. And that's why resources have to be autonomous and independent of ministers. That's not what you want. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Article 5 is - I would like to know how you will discuss Article 13 with your fellow Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u166	Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I was just afraid that this debate would go away without my colleague Cvikl, I would really recommend to you a colleague to take a ride to Prekmurje, White Krajina and elsewhere, and look at our beautiful Slovenia, how some municipalities are breathing, how they are working, how they are developing, and what kind of conversation they are having with a fellow mayor and what kind of member who lives there works there, and maybe this base, these Slovene municipalities might be more familiar with, than just central Slovenia and Ljubljana, because this story is completely different than it is elsewhere. And it's in this Article 5 when we talk about these things like income; look, I think we have disabled statistical regions all over Slovenia today, which are really disabled. And this new provincial package of legislation, including the law on the financing of the provinces, follows my assessment of one of the more important laws that we have adopted in this National Assembly, which the Government has proposed. The Law on the Financing of Slovenian Municipalities, which is primarily balanced, fairer to those who are not guilty, including our municipality, that we have such activities as the labour intensive sector, such as textiles, wood and similar matters, where wages are truly modest. But our people are grateful that they even have a job and that they also have those low wages. And it's not the mayor's fault for these low wages or me as an MP, but it's probably the system that was, and that's how it's going to be, and that's the economic structure it is. But somewhere is much better, that money is worth a lot more and that wages are three times higher than ours in Sevnica, but for this there can be no municipal budget that I manage, a budget that is as bad as it is, because it has a bad economy, and you cannot develop and you will not develop because your workers only have EUR 400 or 500 per month. Essentially too small for our time, but unfortunately this is the reality, and tomorrow will be no better, no matter what government comes into power, nothing will be better. Salaries in some regions, in some congregations, will still be extremely poor, low, and we are happy to have them at all and that workers have a final job to go to work. And that's the mission. And with this amendment, let's be honest, because we don't speak Chinese or Albanian, with this amendment, those who have enough to boast that they have a record budget, that they have the greatest, that they don't need any debt, would give even more. This is the wrong world. We have been saying this for three years, and we have been trying to balance this with the way the congregations are doing, and now with the provinces. Why don't the White Country and Prekmurje get some of this cake, I'll say, Ljubljana, if you want it or state? This is followed by this legislation. And so far, when we've been talking, because in fact we all kind of support this in some way, but when we get to finance, you'd like to give more state budget to those who already have the average results, the average wages. Any government will, the law will be, because it can be repaired by every parliament and every government, but for the time being, I think it follows one practice, which is positive from the field, of the number of Slovenian municipalities. I tell you this, 90% of Slovenian municipalities support this model, ladies and gentlemen. Doesn't that mean anything to you? You respect the will of the people, the people, the citizens, the municipal councilors, the mayors regardless of the political options, they are all options that have said that it is good, that it is positive. And including the Land Financing Act, which is important and most important, certainly, of the three we are talking about today. Without this music there will be no development of the region, and if we take it from them according to your model, then this thing doesn't drink water, as I say in Posavska. He doesn't drink water! Then we are where we were at the time: 30% of the income, and we raised it to 35% - what we did for the Slovenian municipalities! Yeah, we made them rich, but we took what we gave them for the poor. So, this is not going to work together, and I think it will be hard to convince me, despite all due respect, my colleague, about your knowledge of public finances, we are not the same here, you are significantly better, but I speak from the base, I speak from what I experience daily among people, among mayors, among saints and among those who make these stories of municipal budgets and now we are transferring this to possible future provincial legislation. Just that, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Excuse me? Replica, Mr. Mag. Squeak. Here you go. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Christian Janc said a fundamental problem. You and you, Mr. Mayor, believe that the situation in your municipality, in the form of saying, "will pay low in the long term", is a situation that you cannot change. Mr Janc, Mr Mayor, if you work hard and get jobs with high added value, high pay, in the system in which you are, it will not change your budget even for the Euro Tolar. And so to say that this legislation is a wrong thesis for one year or two years. And don't encourage the creation of high-quality jobs, because you have in saying, "no compensation system" because the minister decides how much someone gets. This has only led us, where it has led us, to a fragmented number of congregations and to, according to our assessment, financially disabled regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. I have to take another look at this subject. He himself would be the first to give me, if necessary, 50 or 60 per cent of the income on the province, if this could be done in this way and if we did not have the current situation as we have it. And this prevailing situation is precisely saying that we urgently need the landscapes so that we can go faster in this direction, because otherwise I am afraid, and also because I have worked for ten years also in the field of local self-government as an operative, that it is not just as easy in every environment, especially in the most developed ones, what "high-tech" jobs bring overnight, which could then potentially result in. Nor can I imagine and I do not believe that in all of Slovenia we will have only "high-tech" jobs and no other jobs. I find that hard to believe. Now, by the way, although this is not a debate on the financing of municipalities, I have to say that we also need to look at, as far as the community funding system is concerned, the whole effect of the law, not just focus on one point, and this is income at a time when it suits you, because it can happen next year, so that it doesn't fit, and then it won't be a question. And, let's say, since 2007, 2008 the increase in resources for general 5.4% and 2008 for 2009, when the law is already fully in force with all other matters that follow it, including cost assessment, this index from 2008 to 2009 is 7.5%, without investment transfers that have also increased. And this is a systemic breach and applies to all municipalities the same, for all municipalities in Slovenia, and last but not least, it is always decided by the current policy, which can also be adopted by a different law. A different law can also be adopted. Of course, because you're only looking at one piece of this segment. You can't compare each other, but the whole community funding system needs to be compared. That's what this part is about. As for the provinces, I would appeal once again that, when we talk about financing, we, at this first stage, when we flag the provinces, should give them this developmental impulse and, in the sense of this development impulse, we also need to take account of the European Charter on Local Self-Government not only of autonomy, which is absolutely necessary, I agree, and important, but also of the other segments, also of solidarity, which applies everywhere in Europe. And in those parts, let's say, we compare ourselves to, this is the most pronounced model. Even in Finland, because there are also more different landscapes after development and solidarity effects are needed. And they need to be incorporated into this legislation in this sense if we want to finance the landscapes in a way that we will also give to those environments that have the greatest development problems, and we want to do so, including an appropriate impetus. But if you look at these numbers, and still, even through these numbers, central Slovenia or the most developed environment, they get an appropriate share of the cake from both addresses: from the appropriate consumption, where it is already exceeding these incomes slightly, so that we do not talk about the developmental share of the funds, where due to the concentration of the corporate income tax, this share is also the largest in the central Slovenian work. And if we don't do these reallocations, then it's probably the question of what's the point of establishing the landscapes if we want to do what we want with the provinces, and that's probably what we all want. And this is where the debate always went. However, of course, we also respect the principle of financial neutrality and, of course, there is no new tax resources at this time, but that these tax resources available are available and the way in which they are covered, as is the case at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u173	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I expected my colleague Squeakl, I ask you to give him the word for the replica that he later joined us as a financial expert, to add something or to contribute some added value to this law. But what he was explaining was really fliscules. We are under Article 5, we are not under Article 4, and neither are we dealing with the state budget. I am sure that Cvikl did not table or propose this amendment, unless it is Yankov's amendment, because in fact, what we can explain here is Yankov's amendment. I think it was submitted by my colleague Kontic, who is now not responding to the debate because he must have found out that he broke it. Because if we accept this, it's probably going to be in his future province of Silesian or SAHA, which is already - I'm not going to say lynching right now. Since I do not know, to speak to myself, in view of what the Minister explained earlier, that with the increase in income from 20% to 30%, only central Slovenia is still not on a financial balance and all the other provinces are on a financial level, it means that we have not done anything with the introduction of the provinces as regards the elimination of financial or developmental differences. This means that central Slovenia will be even more steep in the so-called appropriate consumption, and the rest of us will remain the same. I don't know, but then they'd do the calculations, and they'd say 30%, 40%. But that is not the case, I have often explained whether we want to enforce coherent regional development or eliminate developmental differences, then I would say the formula or model is such that it will allow it. And this is the proposed model. It is not ideal, but then come with a new model to calculate the financing of the landscapes, with a new model, but not to propose a change from 20 to 30, for investments with 25 or from that you have probably resigned, and to change the coefficients in the formula itself. You didn't do anything about it. What did you do? I support, however, that a change is taken into account, which was also accepted by the Committee, that the formula also takes into account the length. But look, this model doesn't really mean much either. I myself have been coordinating the proposal to enter into the formula of the Development Hazard Index. And if we want to achieve more in order to eliminate these differences even more, then surely more needs to be done on this segment. Or we'll say, and then we'll give the income: 50 percent to Prekmurju and 20% to Ljubljana. But you know, that's not working. I must tell you that I am surprised when experts here tell us how this amendment is, or how this amendment will contribute to the province's legislation, that the budget will be balanced, if I may say so now, in all 14 regions, or that all the provinces will be self-financing in the future, or that they will not depend on the country. I don't think they'll depend on the country if we don't have development differences. Those are the facts! Why do you keep your eyes closed? At that time, however, we will be able to follow a model so that we can draw everything from our own resources only in the field or in the area of the provinces. But unfortunately, today the relationship between the least and most developed region in Slovenia is too great.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I can't give you a replica, Mr Kontic, because you didn't discuss it before. If you were to discuss it, then you're entitled to the replica, but you're not. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, he mentioned you, he did, that's right. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u175	I have to say that I feel -- not today's, but this part of the debate -- I'm very disappointed when I listened to a collection of demogic statements that I haven't heard in a while. [[...]] You're usually accusing me personally of demagogy, but what I just heard is a sample. I think that a magnetogram will have to be set up for future Members in this National Assembly, so that we know how not to talk. Since the possible increase in the share of income by 10% of anyone in the remaining provinces would affect compared to the theoretically richest province, this is central Slovenian, is a pure lie. To be taken away from someone to get someone else. That's not true! If the rate of income rises by 50% compared to the currently envisaged rate, it will increase by 10%, i.e. by 10% of the points - what was originally expected to be 20% of the points - and nothing else will happen. So, Prekmurje will get instead - here we have an estimated 30% in Prekmurje, such as Prekmurje, which you so specifically - the Pomur region would get income instead of the previous 12 million euros but almost 18. What would be taken from her? Which Pomurec is gonna lose his pants because of this? No! No! However, it is true that the central Slovenian region would have a surplus compared to the average of the appropriate consumption. Instead of the EUR 5 million so far, there would be as much as EUR 46 million. That's right. However, this would not have been taken from Prekmurje, or the Posav region, or anyone else. It would be taken from the State budget. So now I have something very, I will say, compromise or concrete, so that we might think about it a little bit before the vote. I think, given that this is about Article 5, as I understood the only amendment, yes, it is the only amendment. I propose that we vote tonight and that, of course, we agree with the Minister and his colleagues to find some way to achieve, with the third reading amendment to this article, that this major breakthrough of the central Slovenian region will not take place. I know it's almost a requirement that we do miracles, but we need to think about it. You can still do this, Mr. Minister, to go and propose an amendment that will bring your income back to 20%. Nothing else is going to happen. You can still make things right. But if this article is not open, there will be nothing more to do with it. And you know exactly what we're saying all the time and you don't want to listen to us, you don't understand us, you think we're running antlers. We are in this Chamber today, even though the three opposition parties accuse us of being your silent allies. We are here because we want provincial legislation to create conditions for functional, good, successful provinces. And believe us that we do not want the central Slovenian province to be the most successful for all eternity. Although it already predetermines it for the most successful province, the fact that it is the seat of this country. We can't help each other - wherever the world is, the capital is set, in any country, the money flows there without being helped. Jobs are opening up significantly more intensively in the centre of the country than anywhere else. Believe me, I'm not very excited about it as a Marine. Also, I am not thrilled that Koper, for example, will always be some kind of center in the southern Primorska region, because I think it would be more prudent to have the province's seat in Sežana or in Illyrian Bistrica, because automatically in this province things would start to flow more into the new centre of the province than in Koper. I wouldn't lose anything because of this, but this new seat would have won something. This is why I am talking about the need to establish the seats of the provinces in a different way. I know that geography and demographics talk about regional centres, sub-regional centres and so on, but at the same time there is a lot to be done in a slightly more artificial way. That is why I think that this article here might also have been if we had amended Article 4 - we would have practically left all the articles open until the third reading and agreed, in the meantime, until the third reading, what we will leave behind, what we will fix. We know how to sit down and get our heads together! And forget once that we are one in the opposition and the other in the coalition. This is about our country as a whole and it's about all the provinces, no matter how many they are, and no matter where they are. So talk about someone going to Prekmurje, how poor people are, and not sitting all the time just in Ljubljana, it's unfair and I don't think it has anything to do with this legislation. Because I tell you something: this law will not improve the situation in Prekmurje on its own. Even if Prekmurje has twice as much money as she has now, I do not believe that this will make much more successful, much more will have to be done. Also, it will be necessary to move some of the things that are now happening elsewhere to move to Lendava, Murska Sobota and so on. Not that we are going to talk about that because Ljubljana takes from someone - it takes nothing from Ljubljana. And even if we gave Ljubljana the same amount as everyone else, 10% more, a larger share of the income, Ljubljana wouldn't take anything with it. So please, for the sake of the Slovenian public, which we must not deceive with such perverted explanations - this is a twisted explanation. I think it would be my suggestion that we accept this amendment, whether we like it or not. The minister has already explained to me how problems are so different and different, but I think it's better that we sit in peace and think again about what to do - without lifting hands, without pressing buttons, after we leave this article open, I'll say, for the third reading. Let's leave a little more room of manoeuvre for normal conversation, negotiation, consultation. Not with your head through the wall and say, because they didn't come or leave us, but now we're going to tell them on purpose that we're not going to accept their amendments. That's stupid. We leave open room for further discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! The coalition has demonstrated its willingness to listen to amendments that would improve legislation throughout its previous consideration of legislation. But I find it difficult to listen to amendments that would make the provinces too different at the start. The real bitter experience that we have experienced with the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities on the Change of Income is too great and too close to forget. What the speaker says before me to leave the article open would then make sense, or it would necessarily be necessary to have article 15 open, where it would be necessary not to change to 25 instead of 15%, but to change to 5 or even less; so down. This change - where does it take and to whom does it give? Nobody's telling you to take other landscapes with this. But the richest provinces get by this in proportion to the number of inhabitants several times more, and this is the problem. It's taken, of course, from the left pocket and put in the right pocket. It's coming from the state budget. And if only one of the provinces is taken and managed exclusively in the state budget, all the other provinces are affected by this. That's clear. Because the mass is what it is. In fact, the real division of the state into 210 municipalities has finally brought about the resolution of the problem throughout the country. And those who oppose it or speak otherwise, of course, do not want to accept the real facts that are or simply do not see it. It is true, however, that there has been too much demagogism in this article today when some Members speak and send mayors to be successful and to gain new jobs. For the first time, we do not have legislation at local level that would allow mayors to do so at all. If this same Member could tell us what we should do to gain jobs, I am sure that we are able to do so to all the mayors in this House; and if necessary, there are two circles running around Parliament. But of course, that's not the solution. And to say that the mayors go from minister to minister. Of course, normally, because they are developing the areas from which they come, but mainly the basic conditions. And this province needs to have an upgrade, this province has to take care of it, and the legislation has to make sure that we can really create development conditions in the province. And development conditions will only be possible in such a way that we can mate for that part of the funds that we can get from the European funds. This, of course, will be possible if we have sufficient quality resources to develop these development conditions. And as I mentioned earlier, once we get to an area where the provinces in the country will be roughly the same trained, then, of course, we can change those parameters that will lead to the financing of the provinces from their own resources. But that will not, and that is not true, by raising the income from 20 to 30, only those who are rich will get significantly more and those who remain poor will have to be co-financed by financial compensation anyway. See, this will be shown even more when considering, unfortunately, Article 14 on financing, especially in the part where we are talking about the province's development index. And in fact, the funding structure, as it is now set up in this law, because we cannot view it as individual elements of individual articles, of course, is wrong - not to say that the municipalities have lost 160 million euros, which is not true. The municipalities have not lost 160 million euros since the amendment of the legislation adopted by this Parliament. And you can't define a single element, but you have to review the entire structure, that is, the financing principle of the landscapes in full. And all these changes in the amendments that are being discussed should also have a financial calculation that is not. And it is clear that the first look and the first such "ad hoc" calculation across the thumb means only that in the two provinces that are already rich enough to finance themselves, this value will increase and the difference between the provinces will be even greater and this development component of the whole country will not occur. However, our country is too small to afford just one centre and only the development of the centre. We are aware that the capital has advantages and so on, but all parts of Lendava cannot be beside us if we already have Ljubljana's capital. But that doesn't mean we have to accelerate it the way we want it now with this amendment. That's why there's no real basis to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, it is most likely that I will not add anything new to this, but I would like to say that I am sorry that Mr Squeak and colleague Breda Pecan are not here now, who are so passionately advocating this amendment, which in fact, as they say, would give everyone more. What does it mean to give everyone more? We all know that it is not possible that this is an empty expectation, because from where you are taking it, of course, there is limited and there is an urgent need to stay at a financial level, whether we are talking about funding municipalities or whether we are talking about financing the provinces. In this situation, with 20% of the income, the central Slovenian province receives so much money with the capital that it does not use financial compensation, but if this amendment, like both advocates and SD, were to be accepted together, it is likely that Ljubljana would receive EUR 40 million more, it was said. I'm asking, then where are we going to make a financial adjustment to less developed areas, from where? Ljubljana is the capital in itself, all currents flow towards the capital. When we once built Cankar's home, we raised funds for Cankar's home all over Slovenia and it was said, "You can all go to Cankar's home." Of course it's true, only if someone from the northeast of the country wants to go to Cankar's home, then they have to do so many miles and so many miles, they have to pay all the toll and so on. Otherwise, he is allowed to use this service at a much higher price, of course. And so it is with all the services that have accumulated today and are in the capital. We will never have as high a salary as we are in Ljubljana, because the main institutions are here because there are centres of power, and all that this country needs for its functioning is more or less in Ljubljana. Then what will we get out of it if we get a percentage of our income any more - we won't have any of it. Thus, there must remain a system of financial compensation if we want to talk about some coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia. And I am not surprised that, in fact, Members who are mayors at the same time are advertised because we know these structural problems that relate to height, if you want, or to the payment system in the Republic of Slovenia. For example, he pays us in Ormož, where I come from, or he pays here, in Ljubljana, but they are much higher. And if I can only say two things about it. For example, for a kindergarten that has the same standards and costs, or more or less the same, if the average contribution of parents in the Republic of Slovenia to the price of kindergarten is 27%, then this is much less for us. And the difference, of course, must be added to the congregations. We'll get 21%. And that makes a big difference. And, of course, the same problem will exist in the province itself. Or, we've spoken here repeatedly, because of the population, the demographics we have, the price of bus transport. Yes, Ljubljana does not need the Ljubljana City Hall to pay for bus transport. We spend 100 million dollars in our congregation for this, 400 thousand euros. These are the big differences. Not to mention miles of roads, where, for example, a family lives about a mile [1 km] and so on. So that's what you need to keep in mind. And that's why I can't agree to this thesis if we raise this income, everyone gets more. Yes, the central Slovenian province will get much more, we will get more, but I don't know where the country will make a settlement and then contribute funds to some more coherent regional development. This saying that the budget has reduced funds for the congregations is, to put it mildly, I do not know whether ignorance or intentional deception. It is therefore necessary to take into account the budget allocated to the municipalities in full. This is the part that is about coherent regional development, that is, across the different cities in the budget, that is to say, and then we actually get those real percentages of the increase that occurred during this government and these government coalitions. Everything else, of course, is some kind of talk that has no real basis and is far from the truth. It is far from the truth, and I think it is also a deliberately produced non-reality in Slovenia. "Independently" of how many provinces we will eventually decide how many of these provinces there will be, I am also from the point of view of the structural problems of municipalities in the areas of Slovenia - I will not say undeveloped, but those who are less developed areas will say some of the data they hold, which is why we cannot agree to such simple amendments, which do not actually mean any added value, are not some new formula, they are not some new approach, but simply like to be, offer everyone more, but at the same time in the budget to say what colleagues from SD say that the country is spending too much. That, at the time of economic growth, the deficit, as you say, should be eliminated; not only should it be reduced, but it should be nothing. We should even create a backup and so on. We are listening to all of this and I think that the journalists who will follow will also compare these discussions a little bit; it is said that once it is an increase, on the other hand, the entirely opposite effect is that I do not know what to reduce. It's easy, my dear fellows, but even though you'll say at every session that the next ornery of this country will be yours to rule. What you're saying, you're not going to be able to do in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I stopped by because I couldn't find the word "solidarity." Then it was spoken by the Minister, and some justice was rarely spoken of by colleagues. However, this word was not heard by the proposers of this amendment, which speaks of a 10% increase in income, which is intended for the provinces and tries to prove in a manner that everyone is getting more. Normal arithmetic, that really means normal, normal, simple arithmetic. They all get more. So the uniform rate has been used in this case as something that should actually be something positive -- they all get more by the same percentage. When there was some other story about a single rate, otherwise with a different point, it was the most sinful, the most unsocial, the most ugly thing that could be. At the same time, no one wonders that we are talking about the budget, about the source revenue, about the taxes that are being transferred a little bit more into the province segment, to everyone in the same percentage, but, of course, in very different absolute amounts. Simple arithmetic says that. And in the context of solidarity, the word that the proponents do not know in their explanations and do not mention it is here what is most controversial. Those who already have a large, huge and also have every opportunity to gain more, in a developmental sense, an innovative sense, in that most of the activities are actually taking place in the capital city, the province of Ljubljana will be practically the capital with few people. Practically a fully urbanised area that acquires more resources from other titles. I do not know the numbers, but I am sure that, given how high Ljubljana charges the compensation for the use of the building land, read the property tax, that it is an immeasurable source for Ljubljana, even if it were to collect all that it should have taken after the decision on this compensation. Not to say that their infrastructure they are building is much more efficient because it has many more consumers and probably even higher prices than elsewhere, where this infrastructure is proportionate due to the geographical situation and the density of housing more expensive and brings lower revenues. Finally, I do not mention municipal contributions that are significantly higher in Ljubljana and are significantly more collected than anywhere else in Slovenia, and in less developed areas in particular. And what I think the Minister has said is, where, in addition to solidarity, all the circumstances must be looked at, all the circumstances that play a role in such or other decisions. I would be happy if those who have a very strict view of the budget would think that 10% of the income would be earmarked for more social rights. Of course, if this country, given the state of development and the change in our effectiveness, can and can afford to do so. One colleague suggested to me that, given that it was said that these provinces would only cost more so that they might choose 15% of their income and cut 5% of their income to all citizens. This would be something a party such as the Social Democratic Party could propose. If, of course, the budget and all the circumstances in this budget allow it. With all the expertise of the group, however, one would expect a slightly more specific amendment. It's very simple, and it's like, "Oh, let's give 30% instead of 20%." Very nice and very simple, simple. You don't have to do anything. You don't have to do anything. I don't know how to do this. With a little demagogy, you might even like it, but if the media picks it up, it's even better. I think that Ljubljana, while it has no financial compensation, has more income from its income and excise duties, virtually 20 to 30 per cent more than the next one, which is still receiving financial compensation and it is comparable together to actually gain disproportionately here. In fact, the Law on the Financing of the Communities made this anomaly of all the possible revenues of Ljubljana and two other municipalities, which are, in fact, the cities as such and do not have a real rural area, in some ways adjusted and made the matter more sustainable in terms of solidarity. The balance of development is this, and this 10% income, which remains in the budget, is used for the cohesion, solidarity and even development of those parts that hunt on average. They're hunting the average. Where is it you get above average? I cannot accept such a simplified amendment in any way, and given that the needs in Slovenia in individual future provinces are not proportionate to their resources, so relatively defined, such an amendment is not taken into account. There would be some degressive, a different curve, but not a proportional one, which would actually incorporate solidarity into the system. Perhaps the best thing to do is not really tie one formula to what is called appropriate consumption, but in fact no one understands from ordinary citizens - even I haven't for a long time - but that resources, tax sources in some way, would be proportional to, say, developmental threats. And such a thing would then be independent of individual or ministers or individual governments. In no way do I agree to such a simplified way of transferring some resources that can have much greater efficiency in the budget itself, and that is to say, to some extent, the absolute amounts are, of course, denied and are not relevant to the applicants. I will not support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I had to wait for the debate because I couldn't get Mr Mikolitch's replicas because I hadn't discussed it before. Mr Mikolitch has this amazing ability to know what I am going to discuss and to lay down his words in advance. I'm waiting for a tapegram of the National Assembly, and he's not here yet, and I'm gonna get it. If I hear correctly, Mr. Mikolitch, you are concerned for my safety, for my health, you have foretold my lynching, in the Savino-Salak region. I hope so, or I wish I didn't hear right. If I have heard correctly, then this may already be the conclusion that any debate or any individual may in the future be regarded as a measuring unit for corruption in this House. I suggest you, Mr Mikolitch, to take care of your health and your safety, and I will take care of my security in the future, as I have done so far. In addition, you are talking about giving our amendment to everyone and at the same time talking about the fact that they will not be satisfied in the Savinij-Salesh region with this amendment. Why? Because he's giving them extra money? A completely confused debate. The arguments for this amendment were actually made by colleague Breda Pecan, but I think there is something else that needs to be said. Of course, I am aware that the individual provinces are lagging behind, that is a fact, and this needs to be eliminated by development means, i.e. by new means, which the provinces will receive in order to close the gap. But not in a way, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we will say, the most developed countries today should stop for a moment and wait for the provinces that are behind. No! No! All the provinces need to develop, but those with a developmental backlog need to develop faster. And I agree that there is also a role to be played here in the financial settlement. And financial compensation will have to exist in this law in any case, because otherwise it is not possible to make financing for the provinces. However, it is not logical, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not logical that financial imbalances are as large as virtually decommissioned resources, all the provinces are said to have financial compensation. This, of course, shows that there is something very wrong with this law on the financing of the provinces. If at least half of the provinces were self-sufficient and the other half of those behind were financially compensated, I would understand that. However, that they are all at a financial level, of course we cannot understand that. That is also why I do not understand certain discussions. We are talking about Article 5, although we have mixed all the articles now, but the debate is limited in one way or another, and then the second article runs out of time. Article 5 lists the funding resources of the provinces: income from income and excise duties. When we tabled an amendment to raise 10% of our income, it's demagogy. When you listened to the proposals of the Group of Social Democrats and the excise duty on alcohol, you raised it to 90%, but this is a good proposal because it was acceptable to you. There's no demagogies in this, but the same article speaks of it. When we talk about who gives to whom and who takes to whom, you know, the income is also bound to residence. And people who generate income are probably entitled to this share in the local community. Now, how it will divide is a matter of debate. The proposal to let an open article give us the opportunity to agree on this yet to seek solutions, otherwise you will close the articles, the law will be closed, and sometimes I have the feeling that you want some not all, but some in this Chamber to prepare the Social Democrats to obstruct them, to say, "We are not going anymore, because no one listens to anything, because the arguments are not true." Well, this time you will not convince us of this because we have decided to try something even more impossible, to convince you with arguments that our proposals are justified and that it is possible to improve these laws further. It is not said that this amendment, which we have tabled, is the only one and the right one, but the possibility is that we leave the article open for the third reading; the possibility is that you still take time to think; the possibility is that you face all the other laws that we do not already have, with these and that the article that is open, we also change in the third reading. And when we talk about giving someone only: Article 15 of this same law refers to these revenues and the amount of these revenues that we have been talking about for some time now, and it is very clear that if the province's income in the preceding paragraph is more than 15% higher than the calculated appropriate consumption, the surplus that an individual province - that is to say those amendments would have brought it something - is reduced by more than 15% by 50%. Thus, to those who have more, we will in any case take these funds: 50% of the funds above 15%. This is, of course, an intervention in the autonomy of local community funding, which we will call a future province. So, I propose that we constructively discuss trying to find a solution, there is a possibility, there is also an opportunity to discuss these articles, it is still possible to find a common solution, one that will be acceptable to a large majority, and I actually propose, as I have already said, that we are discussing seriously and that we are not using excessive demagology in this. I don't blame you for one piece.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. If I get a little attached to this discussion of the predecessor. For more than a year we have been searching, searching, looking together for some compromise solution to this provincial legislation more or less intensely. We've been doing this all day now, in fact, trying to bring your interests closer together, ours -- those who come from city halls, rich congregations, than those who come from poorer congregations. We're looking on the road, we're coming up with some arguments that aren't demagogically colored, but they're reality, whether you're right or wrong, but I think this is a good purpose, your arguments, these arguments, our arguments, our proposals, the government's proposals. I think we're on our way. Also, some of the proposals you have made have been publicly supported by some of these, at least by me. They're good, they're positive - why not? And I hope that my colleagues will also follow when the time of the vote comes. But I hope there's an unequal possibility over time. We have given this calvary together through the municipalities, we have come to a more balanced budget for the financing of municipal budgets, we come to the provincial budgets. And it is right that we are following a positive legislation here, and the positive move forward is, which has been under way for more time today, the financing of the landscapes. An important topic, an extremely important topic, and we must put it right. Without this good and smart financial incentive, the future of good landscapes will never be equally developed. [[...]] Well, that's normal, because there's nothing wrong with it! In order to get a little closer, they are getting closer, but the goal, I hope, is also these laws, otherwise we don't need the landscapes. That's the point. We need to get closer. And, of course, I think, with all due respect for the city of Ljubljana, it is nice that it is developing, I hope that it will develop even faster in the present time, because it has developed very poorly over the past ten years. Very poor development in the fact that they had an extremely large amount of financial resources, such as other Slovenian municipalities we can only dream of. And I also welcome, as I said before, the extremely good budget for 2008 is said to be record-breaking. It's nothing bad, it's good for the country, for the capital, for the development. And if they manage to build even without borrowing financial resources, it's so much better. Ljubljana will develop incredibly quickly, and so is the case. But don't be around the other 209 congregations like that, I'd say, shy. They too want to develop, and they have these interests of equal interest. And to say that 10% of the salary is 300, 400 Euros equal to 1,000 and more Euros, average, and you won't "saint me". Far from it. Who gets more? Yeah, the one who's got a bigger salary! Unfortunately, this is not in the White Land, not in Prekmurje, not in Posavje, if you will, not in Sevnica. And the recipe I used to listen to with school. I will ask very nicely if this recipe can help me to transfer it to our congregation, our economy, our owners, our managers, how to improve these salaries so that they do not have more than EUR 400 in the textile industry, but EUR 800. How can this recipe make it possible for workers to have more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more. Please, Mr. Squeakle, then we can go for coffee to tell me that I'm going into action tomorrow to get these bigger salaries with my own resources in my own congregation. I will be the most satisfied mayor, not just me, especially our workers who work there for 400, 500 euros. But if you give it to me, I'll publicly thank you for this same place. As far as these new 14 provinces are concerned, more coherent, balanced finances are important. No one wants those who have developed not to get an additional resource, to have, but cannot get as much as those who need more if they want to catch the vehicle development of more developed regions in Slovenia or the current, existing regions that we now have. So I think that this agreement that you're proposing is always for him, today and always, we're looking for compromises, we're looking for consensus. And it would be good to look for more and find more, because this legislation is not only for the coalition, but it is much more than I have already said today. And I hope you and I will have these things in common. So, after all, the suggestions you have, the suggestions you give and the ones we give together, believe me, respect each Member separately from wherever it comes from. The situation in Prekmurje is different from, say, Posavje, like in Koper, probably a completely different story where you don't have these problems that we, like formerly a colleague of Sok from life, have told from practice what it looks like in some congregation that has a lot of countryside that has two houses there, five houses there, there's a road there, there's a plumbing there, there's a sewer there, there's that and that. This is incomparable, I tell you, with urban settlements. That's another story, and we can't put it on the same denominator. Believe me, if we want some of our citizens to finally get a asphalt road to their house in this millennium, is it not time for something you have in Cyprus for 30 years or in Isola! Those are the facts, too. And respect the different thinking and different conditions they have. That's why I said, that path from Prekmurje to Posavje, that it might be useful to someone to know this beautiful Slovenia, but also the infrastructure that we are fighting with today in certain congregations that have no water to talk about the roads and so on. This is also a reality, and this is also the wish of the Government, of these coalitions, and I believe that you too, Members, who may have gone through these problems a long time ago - allow even those who do not have these basic conditions. And also with this province, I think that one option is more open to access additional financial resources, and above all to decide our own problems at our own level. Of course, today we are arguing in Ljubljana with ministries such as these or others, but it doesn't matter who the head of government is, either one or them, about the story is similar, once or twice. But that we have taken a few steps for local communities, that we have given a little more opportunity, and for this I believe this local community is extremely grateful. And we are also following this error of good practice in financing the landscapes that I hope we will get on 1.1.2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor. Did you report to the replica? Mr. Marinic, allow Mr. Squeakl to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u187	I only replicate Mr. Janz with the next question. According to your opinion, according to the Government's proposal, a complementary proposal from the Government is that the provinces should have more than that people smoke more and drink more and not that they work more. And you're attacking that we're demagogues because we're raising the share of income from 20% to 30%, while you're agreeing that it's okay that the percentage of excise duties from 5% went to 10% and alcohol from 20 to 90%. Mr Mayor, Mr Member, I am in favour of having so many resources in the provinces, even with taxes on the income of legal persons, and where else to be as self-sufficient as possible, in order to develop the provinces because they will have more resources of their own from development. It is not, however, that their development depends on how much alignment we will set for them in the state budget. So, of course, the thesis is that the landscapes should develop only from how people drink it there and how much they smoke, but not how much they do - the wrong thesis. But, gentlemen, this is what you have suggested, the updated draft budget increases the share of revenue, own revenue just because of excise duty and because of more excise duty on alcohol and excise duty on tobacco. That's politics. You know that, but it's a policy that's on top of it. And, Commissioner, a book entitled "A Budget Law" by Etelka Korpic Horvat has been published these days. Take a look at it and let your financiers look at it and see what happens if the provinces become dependent on how much alcohol and tobacco consumption they will have, not how much income. And that's the wrong world. And when we do that, of course, the developmental philosophy of the individual provinces will be different from that of the one stimulated by the law. Do you know what you need to do to develop? Yes, in Goriška we should open up as much as possible with these or those gaming activities associated with such or other bars. This is the wrong world. And that's why we don't say that we do, and that we're running a demagogy because we want to increase the amount of money to get the landscapes out of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respected and respected! If I had previously said in the previous discussion that I care whether we like the chief directly or indirectly and support one or another option, only that the provincial legislation meets in a second reading and we allow for a third treatment and allow for a more coherent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia, I cannot do so under the amendment to Article 5. Of course, there is a fundamental difference between a proposaler who has tried to essentially eliminate some things. And it would be good to remember the last discussion of the representative of the proposalr, Minister Žagar, which was based on his own 10-year experience when he was as mayor and knows exactly what he was talking about. Therefore, with respect and respect, I would really expect, as well as the price that we have already heard from the amendment's proponents today, to Article 5, let us leave things open, take time, go through, and maybe we can come up with a better solution. It's never so good that it couldn't be any better. And if I go back now, I would like the system and the funding provided by the proposer to be such that it really allows for more coherent regional development, which has not been a practice so far. That is why we have large developmental backlogs in some parts of Slovenia. They tried to present this very clearly both colleague Janc and colleague Sok and colleague Pukšič. You know, we come from some other environments, and maybe we look at it differently as some people who are just trying to prove in theory how wrong or how justified this is, as proposed by the amendment to Article 5. However, I must point out at the same time that it is very difficult to focus only on the amendment to Article 5, because you are necessarily going to Article 14, where you are also proposing an amendment. I am probably not the only one, and I am probably not alone in this regard when I stress once again that, however, provincial legislation and in this regard, the financing of the landscapes is a fundamental document that will allow for more coherent regional development. And the sources of funding provided by the proposer in Article 5 clearly suggest this. And if we find some middle way between what the proposer wants, between what you want with the amendment to Article 5, to find a real middle way that might be best, but it seems to me that all the instruments around these calculations by the proposer in this regard are exhausted and that it will be difficult to find a better and possible option that is even more acceptable than one or the other option. However, the proposal for a bill on funding by the proposer seems good to me, perhaps not the best, so let us really take the time, try to find a solution or there is a better model for it, and let us find a middle way between the proposed and the amendments you are proposing. I can't accept such an amendment, but I'm afraid I can't accept it, because then we didn't do anything, and we came back essentially in another period, which we're witnessing right now. It seems very important to me that we also have a general conclusion that at this time, I do not know how much time we no longer have, we are already in late, this second level of local self-government, including with regard to the law on the financing of municipalities, to arrange and adopt as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! It will probably be difficult to add any added value to this debate, but a few of my thoughts, and perhaps even in this direction, we will try to resolve this problem in some way. First, one key question. We all revolve around this amendment together, and on this amendment, I think it's the whole story of the establishment of the provinces. Do we want to have these provinces, or do we not want to have these landscapes? Social Democrats have somehow been attacked by the position, because by their arguments, by their reasonings, which are not necessarily the most true, we are fighting to bring this provincial legislation back to life in some way and to build a real Slovenia so that conditions for life are favourable throughout Slovenia. Secondly, our opposition colleagues are critical to us, who have also gone so far with their thinking that they have left this hall, which I will give them just right, and they will say that they will try to solve things in this way. Breda's colleague said a good suggestion half an hour ago: let's accept this amendment, we have until the third reading, and then we can fix this amendment. However, it is unlikely that the 90 Members will be able to correct it. It should be corrected by financial experts who have different views than we have, who do not have these political views, and let these financial experts try to convince us. I would say this to Mr Janc, given that he is a great colleague of mine, I can also perform demogosically very quickly and say how our Radeče, my Radeče are not the most developed and how we should put money into Radeče and in Ljubljana no more money. But these are not, I'll say, true stories. I also placed the Radeče Congregation in the province of Posavia, and now I am well pleased and for other provinces I will say, I do not care. I am a Member of the Republic of Slovenia and it is also important to me that other people, in other provinces, will be satisfied or dissatisfied. But honourable Members, let us ask ourselves whether the nation is a branch of local authority, or of the provinces, so as not to strain my muscles. I think the landscapes, as my colleague Kumer said, will in some way be a place for falling political staff and will get some fine chairs there and will in some way sit down, and the people will still not know whether they came to the administrative unit, whether they came to the congregation, or whether they came to the province and the mayor will blame everything. If we really wanted to divide Slovenia quite evenly, I would simply suggest that we give more money to municipalities and would certainly develop, I will say, to cities in Slovenia much faster and better than Ljubljana itself. Those who are mayors know exactly if they make the euro into the local community, local communities from that euro make 10. This is my knowledge, and I think that Mr Sok and Mr Prevc, who has had a chance to think about it now in these difficult moments and has seen, people can do much more on their own than I will say, some bureaucrats. That's all I'd say to Mr Sok. We don't take anything, we simply allocate funds from the budget. Now, whether we can make more money from the budget to the ministers or to the various ministries or not. However, Mr Jagar said that the financial framework remains the same, which is why I will say that the budget will not be increased. And if that's it, then the only power is for Members to take as much money as possible to the centre, is to call themselves the Ministry, and bring it to the provinces. I'd suggest we accept this amendment of ours, which may not be the smartest, but it's not, I'll say, weak-minded. We, too, in the Social Democrats, are fighting for Slovenia to be evenly divided, evenly financial and to develop evenly. That we have Ljubljana, and thank God we have Ljubljana. At least we've got one town arranged, if we don't have another place. My suggestion is that our amendment is real. But if we don't accept it, it will do what our colleagues have said, the amendment will be closed and then somehow there will be no return. We have already returned three times to the tracks, the Social Democrats, and let us try to get this provincial legislation under the roof in some way, because in the end there will be a lot of debate in the last law that needs two-thirds, and this is the law on the establishment of the provinces. And I'm already there to say that I don't personally agree with those landscapes, with such boundaries. The Radeče municipality is located in Posavije and could be satisfied, but when I look at the stone-saw region, when I see that there is no no nomadic region because of some other political issues that have happened, I think that is not right. But let's go one step at a time and try to get it under the roof today, and then another constructive debate to make and try to get the landscapes under the roof. But don't force your head through the wall and do it to have an election in 2009, because we'll probably feel sorry for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Sok, were you appointed? Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I must answer to my fellow Member Han what he has said. See, 20% of the income means that central Slovenia, or if you want to call it Ljubljana, does not receive financial compensation. He gets $83 million and a few thousand, 400,000. But if this amendment you are proposing comes true, then of course half of this from 20 to 30 gets Ljubljana so much more, it is 40 million more. It is becoming quite clear that you are all helping Ljubljana together. And that's okay. But then from where will we take to make financial compensation to other parts of Slovenia. He can't keep what was said before, I don't know that these developmental differences are because people don't work with us and just drink and smoke, as Mr. Squeakle said. That's not what this country is about. Ljubljana is its own capital, so it has a high priority and a lot of options. All our students come here, leave money at the university, all the institutions are here, from the financial government, not to mention anything. We have a completely different situation in the entire eastern part of the country or elsewhere. And now you can't all help Mr Jankovic to solve these 22 projects. Ljubljana will already solve this, because it has a lot of opportunities and a lot of resources. Nor is it true that the law on the financing of municipalities has taken anything, but it is even less true that Mr Peterle is to blame, as Mr Jankovic explains, and so on. These are some demagogies that spread into this Slovenian space and try to convince people into something that, of course, cannot be held. And all of us who are also monitoring this project funding, because we support all of this, but little will need to reduce our appetites. If you can't make one stadium, well, you can't imagine two at the same time and expect the whole of Slovenia to fund someone to fulfill some of their promises that were obviously too big. And we can't agree with that. And nothing central Slovenia loses 20% of its income with this proposal. Nothing at all. Once again, the state budget is not something from which we can only take endlessly much. He can't go, dear fellows of the opposition. This, in the fact that we are also reducing taxes in this country, what the Government and this government coalition are doing, is simply becoming an unsustainable issue in these proposals, and we will obviously have to keep repeating it in this House and explain that people will somehow see what is possible and what is not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you. Well, it really wasn't a replica, but the replica of Mr. Squeak was not a replica, but it was a debate, and perhaps after I replaced Mr. Clavor, I warned you - let's stick to the debate, the debate is on the list, you can come forward 10 times as long as the Group of Members has time. The next one has the word Mrs. Pečanova. There's no replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u195	Yeah, I know. It's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u196	Mrs. Pecanova, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u197	I don't have a replica. I have a debate, thank you for your word, Mr President. I'd like to say, if my colleague, my colleague didn't seem to get a call, I don't know if you're hoping, because you might have some constructive suggestions and so they'd be lame, but still. Look, the Ministry has prepared a whole series of calculations, combined, such and different. And, among other things, what 30% of income means. There's an automatic netting down for everyone. And that's a fact. This is true, but because of the 15th article, which you are all more or less forgetting, you are talking about Article 14, where speeches are only a change in the formula and the weights change slightly, and therefore the distribution of funds changes, where it is not true that Ljubljana has no balance, but also ages, 4 million euros would have more central Slovenian province. The problem is that article 15 is only about 50 percent of what is above the average headquarter if the province exceeds the average headquarter, let's say, by more than 15% of what is above 115 percent of the average headquarter is taken away. It's over. It is said that he gets that province, in which case it is only central Slovenian if the income increases to 30%, he gets the central Slovenian province instead of 97 million adequate spending 128 million, which is 115% plus 50% over 115%. There's something specific that bothers me. I must say, it seems to me that the amendment to Article 15 would also be well received. Why? So we can adjust it. I think that 25% above average, no one claims that this is the best possible solution, and I am sure that my colleagues who have drafted the amendment to Article 15 would not mind if 15% were above the average or even 10% above the average. More importantly, what one of the colleagues mentioned earlier is that there is no solidarity in our amendments. While it is not entirely true, the money that is taken away from the one who breaks the average by reason of Article 15 goes to the common treasury. I think it would be better than going back to the budget to keep the alignments as they are, it is said that they are being fueled by the state budget, but that what those provinces - I hope, for all eternity, will not only be the central Slovenian one that will break this threshold 110, 115, 105 % above the average, but that this money is explicitly stated in Article 15 that it will be used to promote the accelerated development of less developed regions. So if it goes; I don't understand exactly whether it's 30 million of that money that goes beyond. In this case, this central Slovenian province, if 30% of its income is EUR 30 million, is subtracted not EUR 30.15 million, i.e. EUR 15 million, 50% above the 115% average. The EUR 15 million should go to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, and the ministry should then, I don't know how, with a call for what I know, distribute this money every year to those countries most needed for accelerated development. That's true solidarity. And such a pattern can be found in some German federal lands. [[advertising in the hall]] Well, Sweden, well, that's how it works. I think it's the right way. Then no resident of the central Slovenian province - no citizen, no resident of the province, because we are not citizens of the province, we will be residents of the province, the landscapers, I have not heard it said - will not be able to say, no, but I am against that money going to Prekmurje, to Haloza, what do I know where, even after all, to part of the northern Primorska, for example. Since Northern Primorska will have one part that will be strongly and strongly developed, one part that is far from capping behind the average of Slovenia. I think that would be the way. However, the condition is that today we accept the amendments that will leave us for the third reading of space, so that we can fix these things, so that it will be for the benefit of all, not only that we and our former demagogues, no, sorry, the demagogues were you this time, no offense, but we are supposed to wear our pants to the poor and dress in the fur of the rich, which, believe me, was not the purpose, but indeed not the purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Despite the debate on the amendment to Article 5, there are also dilemmas as to whether or not they make sense. When we look at each congregation that was newly established, including those that we established last year, each acquired in its own development. Neither is one congregation that would have less money at its disposal than it had previously been under the auspices of another congregation. Similarly, each region that will be established will certainly receive more funding, more development opportunities than it now has under the entire country. When we discuss the development of the current regions, landscapes or areas, we all find that they are very different, and there is a solution to how to sort things out or level things up. The debate of one of the predecessors, whether we see in the coalition a solution that now a developed region must be stopped in its development at the expense of the development of another, I say, no, it is not necessary. However, we must be aware that the development of the rich region does not go linearly forward, but goes a square further than some area that is less developed. However, if it tries to reduce this rapidly growing region by some mechanisms, it will not lose, but it will gain a less developed region and in a short time it will try to achieve a significantly larger development than it now has. We can ask ourselves here how there have been such great differences between regions. There are probably historical circumstances here, including policies that have been pursued over the past decades, perhaps even for centuries. However, any region that is now more developed has evolved in some way at the expense of another area, either through labour migration or through direct investment in certain projects in specific areas of Slovenia. And the result of such action today is such a big difference. And if we now want to achieve what the proposers of this amendment to Article 5, so that somehow less developed regions, by increasing this percentage of income, can provide more resources, this is not the right solution. I agree with those debaters in past debates, and I will also return to this, but if we want to provide each province with more resources, then it is necessary to review Article 14 here and see whether in Article 14 we can ensure that appropriate spending, because that is the amount of resources each region will receive. In fact, Article 5 itself does nothing if we change the percentage of the income. I'm going to give you a simple case of numbers, and here you don't have to do any economic science, but just simple farming logic. Let us take, for example, one region which, for example, has an eligible expenditure of EUR 14 million. And this region, let's say with 20% of income, gets about 20 million euros from this title and some other resources, but it still has to make sure that up to 100 million countries are equalising in order to reach 100 million euros. Now let's take a look at another case. A region with one billion eligible spending, and this region achieves this appropriate spending itself with its revenues, provided that, say, the proportion of those amounts of income is 200 million euros: What would that mean if we now accept the amendment you are proposing in the opposition? The difference that this region will gain is about 100 million euros here, automatically surpasses, means that we are giving a stronger region than any other region that does not gain the euro with such a solution. In any case, the less developed region will get what it needs from the state budget. Such an amendment or such a solution is not the right way to achieve as balanced development or to try to balance it with years and decades. So I really don't see the need or the reason to express my support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Sok. He's quitting. Since there is still an interest in the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article, I am opening the application again. Please apply to all those who wish to discuss this amendment. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thanks again for saying that. I would be very happy, and probably a lot of people here in the Chamber, to understand why there are 13 regions on the financial level in this proposal. Due to enormous development differences between the most developed Central Slovene province and the other 13 provinces. And in this funding model, it is irrelevant that we are now discussing for two hours, if not more, whether the share of income will be 20% or 30%, given that we are only increasing the financial share of the central Slovenian region. I think it would be good to figure out where the amount of income that we should have in order for some of the following provinces to survive the proper consumption without being compensated. I don't think she's there by 35%, if not more. And that someone here is going to explain to me that we're going to give this to the rest of the provinces with these changes, and that's not true. I did not say before that they will remain with this loss, but in fact the financial settlement will be smaller, but the individual provinces will still have their own resources under what is called the appropriate consumption. And once again, until we resolve development differences in Slovenia, there is no other model to help the less developed. In fact, this is solidarity, what I think the predecessors mentioned earlier. And solidarity must be as long as we do, if we don't eliminate the development gap, but somehow get closer to each other. I really do not see any argument that this article would also open up so that, just because the article is open, we accept the proposed 30% amendment. I don't know, we can take 25, or 35, but it's not exactly from this point of view that we're going to eliminate development differences, we're not going to do anything. I would be more pleased, as I mentioned earlier, to increase the development risk index. In order to make this factor relevant in the allocation of funds for the so-called mandatory tasks to be carried out by the provinces and may also be involved in so-called investments. But we know it doesn't work. Otherwise, I am surprised by some of you who have proposed or changed the formula, which also relates to this coefficient, which is actually decreasing with the proposal. I think that the Government has done a great deal in the area of community funding precisely by regulating funding and, among other things, on the basis of Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Communities, where the Development Hazard Index is also essential, I am talking about the budgets of municipalities, whether we are trying to do so or whether it is already very much reflected in the field, so that much more can be done in less developed municipalities in the field of investment. If we didn't have, I'm going to end up with such a strong building lobby as we have so that prices went up by an enormous height or percentage, then all the mayors could say, it's been great in the last two, three years, especially the last year. I am sorry that we are at the expense of how much this Government has worked and listened to the local communities, that we have indeed obtained much more investment funds, that one part of this cake went to the contractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Cooperation. The difference in calculations, now we've talked a lot about what that would mean if income rises from 20% to 30%. If we look at these differences in calculations, we quickly find that the Central Slovenian region, with Ljubljana at the helm, and especially this, gets 80 million euros in income first, and now 125 million. The difference is huge, €45 million. If we sum up these differences in the other provinces, you can give together Kamnik-Sawska, Eastern Styria, Savinja, Celje, Primorsko, Coastal-Kraška, Pomursko, and together you will not get 45 million. Or if you give together Gorenjska, Severnoprimorska, Koroška and Notranjska, you also get barely a total of 45 million. Or other information. This is because if the difference from 8 million, and now I'm going to talk about East Styria, let's change from 20 to 30%, to 13 million, we raised about 5 euros per capita per capita per capita. In Ljubljana, however, 45 million people, and we take into account that there are 380,000 inhabitants, we have raised about 100 euros per capita. That's the difference we're making with this amendment. That's the problem. And the problem, colleagues and colleagues, that we have this country so underdeveloped, so underdeveloped, is the problem of the attitude of the centre and government towards all development in this country. Mrs Pečanova, if you would suggest that by raising the income from 20% to 30% and the difference made by those who go beyond the right spending, because the appropriate spending by law is both for local self-government and for regional development, i.e. for the regions, it is the one that ensures the implementation of constitutional and legal tasks. If all those who come over 100 were to put in a joint appeal to the Ministry or anywhere for regional development and then to accelerate regional development, I would agree with that. In fact, it would also be right to change the Law on Community Financing in this direction, but only then would we jump into the "louft" mainly in Ljubljana and those with other resources breaking through the appropriate consumption. All the congregations in the country pay for kindergartens, compulsory health insurance for the unemployed, and so on. Even more. Indeed, in less developed areas, municipalities have significantly higher costs, in particular by transporting children to school, and rural municipalities have a cost of up to a few percent, up to a tenth of the budget. Urban congregations don't have that. They're richer, they're less expensive because they're more centered and you don't have to pick up 30, 35, 100 square kilometers of kids and drive them to school. And neither did the previous one, nor did this government take into account and regulate it. No one's ever done this before, and I've been warning you for 12 years now, and as long as I'm here, I'm gonna keep that in mind. With this change, we really take off, not only do we take off, but we take off those who do not already have much, and we clothe the richer not only with fur, but with even richer coats, which have many. The main thing is to bring Jankovic into the millions because he thinks he's lost them. Nothing lost them. But the distribution finally became a little more fairer, even though it's not even fair, which I've talked about before. From the numbers we have before us and from the relationships that come from this to the inhabitant, it is clear where the dog taco prays. And we can't let that dog get there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Discussions over the last few months on this provincial legislation have been received by this Government and the non-top coalition by comments that there are no adequate calculations as to how there are no tables. Today, after this marathon debate, one progress has finally been made. And this progress is that one of my previous debates made it clear and loudly because we got a whole bunch of calculations, so we see this and that. This is great progress for me, because yesterday all media were presented as if most of the calculations were missing. These calculations, thank God, have been found during the debate today, and this is a great advance today's debate. However, as far as the amendment to Article 5 concerns and these calculations that we all have before us, the opposition is finally also, it is clear that this amendment is really written only to someone on the skin. To avoid repeating things, it is only right that this amendment in this House does not receive support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 5? [[No, no, ……]] Good. We are moving on to Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the debate on Article 14 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. I see a hand, so I am opening an application for a debate on Article 15 and the amendment of the Social Democrats to this Article. Mrs. Pecanova, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to say, first thing, I didn't say that we got a bunch of calculations, we got three tables, at least I saw them myself, but I didn't personally get them, because then I picked them up with colleagues who aren't complete. But let's leave. I think that Article 15, I reiterate, opens up the possibility that, in solidarity with those regions that will be financially stronger, they will provide for solidarity to cover or encourage the development of less developed regions. If we listen to such categorical rejections of any possibility of preserving the openness of individual articles relating to this, that is both the 4th and the 5th, and the 6th, and the 14th and the 15th, then we can't say otherwise than that you've screwed up or you're going to slam the door in front of us. While we are careful enough to withdraw in due time because we do not intend to accept such an amendment with our door slamming, as we have just heard before. The fact is that, in a democratically developing society with a democratic parliament, we cannot fool ourselves with the door in matters that are truly of universal importance to every citizen and citizen. Despite the fact that the coalition is stronger, despite the fact that you have more Members and Members, even though you always feel completely strong and do not need any argument, I think this is an opportunity to show a little more democratic maturity than your colleague just before me. With the door slamming, there's nothing to achieve. That is why I propose that, regardless of your critical mood for the amendments, regardless of whether you think we have tabled the stupid amendments, confirm them and then we will discuss the true content again. You always have the opportunity, with your majority in Parliament, to return the text of the article to what was before the second reading. No problem. Again, I would like to support the amendment, which I would say, all that is above that limit, all that is taken away is not actually taken away, but is not transferred to the budget of the individual province, which exceeds that famous average, is used as a special fund to promote the development of less developed regions. Let's leave this to the one that is most competent - I think we all agree that we know what this resource is - and, for God's sake, let's help those who are less developed. Please stop with these, I'm not going to use the right expression, but I'm going to use a foreign, banal, tasteless comparison of underwear, shoes, and what I know, I'm asking you nicely, because there's no place in which we can talk like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you. Is there any further interest after the discussion on Article 15 and the amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I also conclude the debate on the law. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Otherwise, I will probably have to repeat this procedural proposal before the vote when it is likely to be in half an hour, but I suggest that we vote on all three points today at one of the next meetings. This is also in line with your proposal at today's meeting, between the duration of the meeting and the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. By formally making this procedural proposal and voting on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you. You have heard a procedural proposal to put the vote on the amendments and all three laws to one of the following meetings. A procedural proposal would be put to the vote if we were in agreement or if there were enough of us, because this is usually the way it works and is done in the morning. Otherwise, we should wait half an hour. I ask the proposer whether I can now suspend the meeting as scheduled for half an hour. We're voting in half an hour when we get to the vote. Good. The proposal is to put the procedural proposal to the vote immediately. You heard the procedural proposal. Would you like to explain your vote to this proposal? Do you have a right? [[No, no, ……]] Then we turn to a vote on the procedural proposal to put the vote on the amendments of all three laws to one of the following meetings. We're voting. We're not concluding. I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to put the same proposal to the vote again. Again, second time, we vote. We're inconclusive now, too. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll resume in 10 minutes. This is said at 4.05 p.m. by the third vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We are in the third attempt to vote on Mr President's procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. At one of the next meetings, the National Assembly will vote on amendments to all three provincial laws. That concludes this point. I'm also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, and we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. It's a nice day for as long as there is left.
