ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the continuation of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dr. Pavel Gantar, Mag. Vasja Klavora, Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler, Mr Martin Mikolič by 3 p.m., Dr. Marko Pavliha, mag. Anton Rop and Mr Cyril Testen. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law implementing the customs provisions of the European Community. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Shircel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members. The first law implementing the customs rules of the European Community was adopted by the National Assembly and entered into force on 1 May 2004, i.e. with the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. This was the law by which Slovenian customs legislation was fully repealed until then, as we became an integral part of the customs union with membership in the European Union, and as such we directly apply all Council and Parliament regulations, or the European Commission, that is, all Community customs rules. In the law implementing the customs rules of the European Community, we have regulated those matters which the customs legislation of the Community permits or where it gives jurisdiction to regulate in the Member States. During the period following the application of the law, i.e. within three and a half years, certain amendments to the basic customs legislation we regulate have been adopted at Community level. In addition, the implementation of the law identified the need for its amendments and additions, in particular in order to ensure that customs authorities operate more economically. This aligns the proposed amendments and additions to the law with both European and domestic rules. That is, with amendments to European Union legislation on intellectual property and the submission of goods to customs authorities and the common declaration, including criminal provisions. The provisions are also adapted for the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia, exchange rates are defined and criminal provisions are coordinated. It is proposed to align the text with the decision of the Constitutional Court - this refers to the text of Article 22 of the Law and the amendments are also proposed in the procedures of the customs debt book in order to harmonise the procedure with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. At the same time, the draft law also deals with individual issues that have arisen in the implementation of the existing law. This ensures that customs authorities operate more economically, allows for faster procedures and rationality in their work. At the same time, the use of electronic commerce between users of this law and customs authorities shall be made possible and encouraged. The responsibilities for the individual actions of the customs authorities are largely left to the internal organisation of the customs service with a view to ensuring greater flexibility and thereby allowing for a greater response of the customs authorities to the need for changes in the organisation of work, especially in the light of the expectation of increased e-commerce, which is already taking place in the ordinary course of business. The honourable President, honourable Members and Members, the Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt the law and at the same time propose that, because the proposed law has not been tabled, a third should also be considered at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the President, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. I welcome it all! At its 32nd meeting, on 6.11.2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which commented on Articles 3, 4, 7 and 57. We also received the proposed amendments from the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which tabled amendments to Articles 3, 4, 7, 55 and 57. Representatives of the Government attended the meeting. This legislation is in line with European rules, especially in the field of intellectual property and also with criminal provisions. Legislation was needed for the introduction of the euro and in connection with harmonisation as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. This legislation is in line with European rules on intellectual property and also with criminal provisions. Adaptation of legislation is also necessary for the introduction of the euro and in connection with the harmonisation of the registration procedures under Article 220 of the Customs Code, which has been summarised or interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Community and the European Commission. The proposed amendment of the law ensures a more cost-effective functioning of the customs authorities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed, in addition to the explanation of the opinion of the Service, that the amendments tabled take into account her comments. These amendments to Articles 3, 4, 7, 55 and 57 have been adopted by the Committee and settled in a supplementary proposal for a law, which is also proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! While the operation of our economic operators with economic operators from other Member States of the European Union is based on four freedoms of the internal European market, these are free movement of goods, services, capital and people, trade in goods from third countries still needs to take account of customs rules. However, in the context of trade in goods within the Customs Union, the principle of free trade between Member States is not generally applicable, but only applies to goods originating in Member States and having the status of Community goods. The proposed amendments and additions align the law with both European and domestic rules. Consistency with amendments to European Union legislation - here we are talking mainly about the area of intellectual services and the submission of goods to the customs authorities in the common declaration, together with the criminal provisions - the adjustment due to the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia, the definition of exchange rates and the harmonisation of criminal provisions, the alignment of the text with the decision of the Constitutional Court, that is, the redrafting of the text of Article 22 of the Act, and changes following the procedures of the customs debt book with a view to harmonising the procedure of Article 220 of the Customs Code, as interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Community and the European Commission. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, everyone's welcome! Amendments and additions to the Law implementing the customs rules of the European Community are necessary in order to comply with both European and domestic rules. Although these are sufficient arguments for support, the New Slovenia Group would nevertheless point out that the bill also offers solutions that will ensure a more cost-effective functioning of customs authorities and faster and more rational procedures. It also promotes the use of electronic commerce, which will make it possible to rationalise business with economic operators. The amended Community customs legislation also encourages the use of electronic commerce. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect that the proposal for amendments and additions will help to improve the implementation of customs regulations and that is why we will, as we say, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, Your Honor. The entry of Slovenia into the European Union has also changed the business between economic operators within the Union. Certain adjustments to the market and the situation are needed, particularly as regards trade with so-called third countries. Today's bill is a result of coordination with European and domestic rules. It provides for simpler, faster and rational procedures in the work of the customs authorities and also provides for electronic operations. The customs control measures in one place would be precisely laid down, allowing for the smoother and more efficient functioning of the customs authorities. The draft law shows both the powers of the customs authorities and the obligations of the parties in customs procedures. The draft law also aligns criminal provisions with the new text and lays down appropriate sanctions that are in line with the introduction of the euro in our country. In general, the proposal for a law is the basis for a more economical and rational functioning of customs authorities, to which certain powers have also been delegated. The work of the customs authorities is very complex and requires rapid response. The new bill enables them to do so and thus detects the actual needs and requirements on the ground. It is not enough that changes are intended only for the operator of the activity, in our view, the services need to be brought closer to the users so that people feel positive about their daily tasks. Members of the SLS Group believe that the bill is well prepared and we believe it will bring about an increase in legal certainty and changes in the positive direction, so we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Secretary and Chamber of Respect. The fundamental objective of the amendments and the completion of the Law on the implementation of customs rules is to harmonise the current regulation of European legislation and domestic regulations and practices. The proposed amendment of the law in existing or partially repealed Article 22 by the Constitutional Court will be appropriate to the sentence of the decision. We estimate that the proposed legal solutions relating to the competences of customs authorities for individual actions in individual procedures are defined in such a way that, in the light of the greater flexibility of the internal organisation of the customs service, they contribute to greater efficiency of the work by increasing the response of customs authorities. Finally, the general definition of competence also means that, in the case of transitional changes in the customs area of the European Community, there will be no need to implement changes in national legislation relating to the competence of the work of individual authorities. As a result, customs control and control procedures will run faster and faster, contributing to rationality in terms of time and money consumption. The same positive effects in the rationality of business will also contribute to a wider or more general introduction of electronic commerce between the national authorities, customs authorities and entities subject to the customs procedure. The introduction of a reduced finding procedure simplifies administrative work, thus allowing for greater efficiency of the work of customs authorities, including in the area of correction of errors in customs declarations. In accordance with Community customs rules, rules on intellectual property rights are also being amended in cases of infringements, which are particularly specific and in this way many of the dilemmas and irregularities that have arisen in practice also due to inaccurate translations under the Customs Code are being addressed. Undoubtedly, the definition and integration of customs control measures in one place will contribute to the better structure of the law and thus to greater public content. Some other changes are acceptable and therefore need confirmation. This amendment lays down the terms of the proceedings and the consequences of the withdrawal of the licence, or the licence for representation in customs matters, provided that it is established that the representative of the activity does not carry out activities in accordance with the principles of the good host, with the solutions drawn up in accordance with the practice and experience of the implementation of the law. In addition to the Chamber of Commerce, the public authority to issue certificates of non-professional origin shall also be confirmed by the Chamber of Commerce. We regard all these proposed amendments and additions as positive, but in particular as necessary for more effective enforcement of customs rules, and therefore we fully support the law in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 14 or at the latest at 18.25. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the twelfth annual report of the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2006 with a proposal for a recommendation. The 12th annual report was presented by the Ombudsman for consideration by the assembly, which I welcome at the same time as her co-workers. I give the text to the Ombudsman Dr Zdenka Cebašek Travnik for further explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u14	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of the Parliament! A good year ago, she entered the premises of the National Assembly as the nominee of the President of the Republic for the function of the Ombudsman. And you voted me in favour and no one against the position of the Ombudsman. I began my role on 22 February 2007 and, taking over from my predecessor, Mr Matjaž Hanžk, took over the draft annual report of the Ombudsman for 2006. At that time, Mr Hanzek and I agreed not to interfere with the content of the annual report he had prepared. So, the report came under his direction, and then his associates, now my associates, prepared it. The MPs have received a report. This has also been addressed by the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and I believe that you know him well and that I do not need to talk about the report in particular. The report draws attention to some of the same or rather similar problems over the years. This indicates, above all, that some problems are being solved too slowly. That is how the report reminds us again, as well as me, of groups of people whose human rights are still being violated. [[deleted, judicial backlogs, unrecognized minorities, material damage to World War II, mobilisers and others listed]] . However, we also see progress in certain areas, such as the regulation of the Roma problem, where it still cannot be satisfied. I would now like to explain a few things in this opening talk, and I have touched them, especially because I would like to highlight them. The first such thing is the participation of citizens in the drafting of regulations. This is one of the problems that are regulated by the provision of responsible documents, but we note that more needs to be done, as we note that the proposals of laws, regulations, resolutions and other strategic documents come into public debate just before the adoption of the Government and thus there is not enough time to comment on the professional public and civil society. We also note that there is almost no response to the comments made or that the applicant does not respond to these comments. I would like to draw attention to other comments made by civil society, known as "Nothing about us without us", where, above all, the elderly, as well as patients, want to participate more actively in the legislation concerning them. All countries are violating human rights. It is problematic if these violations are systematic or massive, or if they are supported or even produced by a social system. For example: delays in the courts are already one such problem; especially in cases where hearings are linked to the fate of juvenile children. However, countries vary according to how they respond to violations. Democratic, legal states are trying to identify and address the causes of the violations. Some countries, however, react by trying to silence those who warn of violations. Infringement messages should be taken seriously, not denied their existence or diminished the importance and authority of the alerter. In this light, I would like to draw attention to attempts to reduce the Ombudsman's authority in various ways, and I have seen these ways during my term of office. Among these is great pressure on the appointment of special guardians or guardians for particular areas. Pressures on the appointment of deputies, the reduction of salaries of the Ombudsman and his deputies, or the persistent misrepresentation of the institution of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia as the Office of the Ombudsman. These are some of the things I wanted to put out in particular. From the vision of my work, I repeat that the priority areas of my work are the right of the child and to this end I dedicate certain activities and we are also preparing for large projects, such as the pilot project "Procurator - voice of the child", where we will try this year to create a different way of working with children, especially to hear their voice. I would like to say that it is not my intention to attack and criticize, in any way, those who are reluctant or violating human rights because they have not been warned, but I would like to say that I see my way of working in cooperation. In that things that do not seem right to me, that violate human rights or at least reduce access to them, were discussed and agreed in advance and in this way sought common solutions. Today's debate will be on the 2006 report, and I believe it will be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the debate. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u15	Thank you. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for recommendations from the National Assembly. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman, with fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 27th meeting, on 7 and 9 November 2007, the Commission considered the 12th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2006 submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration under Article 43 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The 12th regular annual report for 2006 was published in Rapporteur No. 71. For consideration at the meeting, the members of the Commission also received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the 12th periodic report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the 11th periodic report. Members and members of the Commission also received working material Draft recommendations prepared by the Commission’s expert service [[There were 34 of them.]] and Draft recommendations submitted by Commissioner Zvonko Černač [[There were 25 of them.]] . They mainly summarized the recommendations made by the Commission’s professional service and were different in one part. Finally, 27 recommendations were adopted. The Ombudsman said that the 12th regular annual report includes an assessment of the situation in the field of human rights, the Ombudsman's findings and opinions, work data and a description of the selected cases. It further highlighted the individual sets of issues contained in the annual report. Representatives of the Government said that every year the Ombudsman's report was dealt with with with with all seriousness and that the findings in the report were also identified, as they wanted to address the problems that the Ombudsman was alerting them to. Otherwise, they find that most of the cases described in the report stem from past years. In particular areas, government representatives have said that the Government is also working towards better regulation and public participation in the drafting of regulations and that it has already taken some measures in this direction. Movements in inspection services and legislation are also noticeable. The President of the Supreme Court said that the backlog in the courts was still a major and serious problem. These are also due to relatively high procedural standards used by the Slovenian courts, and they expect the backlogs to be reduced, however, due to changes in enforcement legislation, and certain positive effects are also shown by changes to the Law on Administrative Disputes on the basis of a credible charter. However, he pointed out the great spatial hardship and the lack of judges. The representative of non-governmental organisations summed up his comments in three sets, drew attention to deleted, Roma and not to the integration or non-transparent functioning of the State and public participation in the drafting of the rules. The debate was also held between Members and Members, with the participation of all members and members of the Commission, it was said that the Ombudsman's Institute was set up to pay particular attention to citizens' warnings and opinions. The government should therefore listen with all commitment to this opinion and see what can be improved. Members and Members also have a special responsibility for how citizens and citizens feel. The debate also said that the opinion of the public concerned was too often overlooked in the drafting of the rules, and that there was also a lack of hostility and intolerance, not only in the media, but also in society, but a particularly worrying finding in the rise of poverty and the rights of employees of foreign workers. It was pointed out that human rights were not forever given and that the standard of human rights was changing and some other things that were recorded in the report. Following the discussion, the Commission adopted, for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, a proposal for recommendations which, pursuant to Articles 272 and 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is proposed for consideration and acceptance by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation is an integral part of this report. For petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to consider the 12th Regular Report of the Ombudsman for 2006 and to adopt the recommendations proposed by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the respectable Lady Guardian with her co-worker! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when considering the Ombudsman's report for 2006, points out that most of the cases mentioned in the report stem from past years. Nevertheless, the government is aware of the seriousness of the issue at stake and of its responsibilities in this regard, and has already taken a number of measures. The government devotes much of its attention to preventing all kinds of violence in society and its cells. The most recent concrete measures include the adoption of the Domestic Violence Prevention Act. The Government also adopted in October 2006 the Programme for Children and Youth 2006-2016, which sets out the vision of the future of Slovenian children and youth and sets out guidelines and measures for its implementation. The programme reflects the concern for the young generation with the aim of increasing welfare for all children in the Republic of Slovenia. The government is committed to creating an atmosphere of tolerance and mutual respect, both between individuals and between different groups living in the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, it seems important to highlight the Roma issue, which is given special attention by the whole government and addressed with particular sensitivity. The activities focus on providing and regulating adequate housing conditions for members of the Roma community, education, employment, cultural and information activities and towards the creation of a multicultural society. The Roma Community Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 30 March this year by the Government, plays an important role in this regard. The law provides that, in order to exercise the specific rights of members of the Roma community, the Government shall, in cooperation with the self-government local communities and the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia, adopt a programme of measures setting out the obligations, tasks performed by the State Administration and local administration. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the self-government local communities and the Roma Community, has already joined in the preparation of a programme of measures. To this end, the Government appointed a working group consisting of 16 members from various departments, the Council of the Roma Community of the Republic of Slovenia and the local self-government communities. The government is still making tremendous efforts to find a suitable solution for the Strojan family. When searching for an appropriate location, the following basic criteria are followed: position, accessibility, distance from settlements, infrastructure equipment, security regimes and intended use of space. The family’s wish to find a suitable location near the current residence was also taken into account and discussions were held on the ground with representatives of local communities. With regard to the reduction and elimination of judicial backlogs and the provision of conditions for trial within a reasonable time, the Ministry of Justice has prepared a programme to reduce and remedy the judicial backlogs, the Lukenda project, and submitted it to the Government for consideration. The measures provided for in that programme are already being implemented and are already delivering results. In 2006, backlogs decreased by 5% and 6.5% in the first half of 2007. It is expected that the tangible results in the area of the reduction of judicial arrears will be visible in the next three years, when the judicial backlog is to be fully eliminated by the end of 2010. The Ministry of Justice considers that there is no need for an additional regulatory regime for a negotiated non-judicial settlement of disputes by means of mediation and other forms of alternative dispute resolution. The Criminal Procedure Act in force on criminal proceedings already provides that the State Prosecutor may, with the consent of the defendants, drop the prosecution if the suspect is prepared to follow the instructions of the State Prosecutor. However, the applicable Law of Legal Procedure provides in principle that the court is obliged to file a settlement claim upon receipt of the response to the action. In it, the court and the parties shall discuss openly the legal and factual aspects of the dispute and examine the possibility of a judicial settlement. Since the principle of client dissatisfaction applies in a fair proceeding, the regulatory regulation of extra-judicial dispute resolution is not appropriate. The regulatory regulation of this issue would also pave the way for the development of non-judicial dispute resolution by the parties in practice, which also allows the Novelle of the Notariat Act to participate in the out-of-court resolution of disputes. With regard to the issue of deleted persons, the Government wishes to stress that it is aware of the seriousness of the problem of deleted persons and of the difficult situation in which some of these persons have been found, despite the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has given citizens of other successor countries of the former SFRJ a number of opportunities to regulate the status in the Republic of Slovenia both for obtaining citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and for obtaining residence permits in the Republic of Slovenia. In 2006, the Ministry of the Interior, in order to remove the found non-compliance with the laws governing the status of citizens of other countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, drafted a proposal for a constitutional law supplementing the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It is intended to supplement Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the nationals of other republics who had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23 December 1990 and who also actually lived in the Republic of Slovenia, equivalent to the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has introduced a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the inspection supervision law with a view to improving the efficiency and consistency of the activities of the inspection bodies. By implementing those amendments, the management of the inspection board was taken over by the Minister responsible for the functioning of the service system, i.e. the Minister of Public Administration. The tasks and the inspection board shall, however, aim to achieve greater efficiency and consistency and the expertise of inspections. The joint implementation of the inspection tasks of the various inspections in practice is already under way. In the section on the protection of children's rights, the Ombudsman, among others, estimates that foster parents should also be allowed to be guardians of children. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs explains that the Marriage and Family Relations Act does not exclude foster parents as possible guardians of children. The placement of the foster father in the position of guardian, is legally possible and permissible and is also occurring in practice. However, depending on the circumstances of the individual case, it is up to the child to be placed as foster parents or any other person. In the area of regulatory preparation, the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the Council of the European Union, supported the initiative for better regulation preparation and analysis of their impact and fully supported its implementation. This has led to the adoption of programmes to remove administrative barriers for 2006 and 2007, which are following the objectives of an effective public administration for citizens and the economy. The Government is aware of the importance of citizens' participation in regulatory procedures. Active inclusion of citizens at the earliest stage of drafting rules contributes to better quality of decisions taken and better implementation of them. The results of the survey The ability to manage regulation in Slovenia, prepared on a recommendation from the European Commission by international OECD experts, show that Slovenia is one of the countries in which the policy-making and regulatory process is transparent and rather well structured. An even more important measure was taken when the Government's 2007 regulatory programme was put in place. The Ministry of Public Administration forwarded the list of regulations to the public concerned. The interested public provided the Ministry with an answer indicating which rules it wished to participate in the adoption process. These data were then transmitted to the Ministry of Field Affairs, which included the public concerned in the procedure. The preparation of such lists abroad has proved to be an appropriate practice for promoting the involvement of citizens in decision-making processes, as it is very important that the public be invited to draw up regulations at the earliest stage. In the area of legal matters, the Government has taken a number of measures to improve the situation. It also adopted a common methodology to monitor the status of delays in decision-making on legal matters at the first and second stages and in the use of exceptional remedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Once again, welcome, everyone, especially the Guardian of Human Rights. Legislation is still a major problem. This is not just a matter of bad or flawed submarital acts. Their acceptance is controversial, as they are often the result of victims of trade in party interests. You can find this on the 16th page of the 2006 Ombudsman's report. I chose him on purpose as an introduction to the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats because this opinion is primarily guided by the role of the National Assembly in addressing the Ombudsman's report. And as a legislative body, we must be particularly concerned about what the Ombudsman feels about the legislative process as it does in the National Assembly. So let's say it's intonation. The 12th annual report of the Ombudsman presents the decision of the second term, the latest report signed by Matjaž Hanžek and, although submitted by the current Ombudsman for consideration by the National Assembly, has not been amended in substance. In her introduction, she also endorsed the findings of the report on the most pronounced cases of human rights violations in Slovenia, while at the same time predicting that the future report will show its vision of the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms based on the priorities it has already presented publicly. At the end of the second term, the Social Democrats note that the Ombudsman's Institute has been strengthened in the consciousness of people and that it is also better to know his powers. It is these who determine the impact and strength of his warnings, so the Social Democrats judge the work of the Ombudsman primarily from the point of view or have exercised, exercised and promoted their role and responsibilities. We are aware that the fundamental condition for successful work is the independence of all branches of government, because it is only in this way that it can maintain its institutional integrity, and therefore we believe that there is no need for the Ombudsman to have enforceable powers. Of course, it is therefore a fundamental question of how those whose comments relate to it view it. Therefore, we also take as an integral part of the regular annual report the government's response report and the findings on the implementation of the recommendations. With regard to this part accompanying the Ombudsman's report, which relates to what was stated in the 11th periodic report of the Ombudsman for 2005, we stress that, last year, the National Assembly adopted 28 recommendations and, in response to the Government, how it explained how the Government implemented its recommendations only in 17 recommendations. While 11 recommendations do not contain a single sentence on what happened in the context of each recommendation. While we allow the possibility that the material preparers considered that they had responded to the recommendations already in the text paper in the response report, that is, however, a response to the Ombudsman's report for 2006. As the guardian of the presentation of the report on the labour force, we also find that the Government's response to individual comments and warnings by the Ombudsman is rather unbalanced. In most cases it is possible to read a summary of what the Ombudsman finds and then it is recorded what has been achieved at the level of legal remedies. How they responded to specific infringements with individual concrete measures, and this is significantly less. Therefore, it can be established that a number of times the Ombudsman does not play in the eyes of the executive branch the role he plays under the Ombudsman Act. Among the recommendations that do not have a response, the Social Democrats are reminded of at least two recommendations. This is a recommendation that talked about children who are increasingly victims of contentious press releases. There is nothing written about this, and we note that there is also an unresponsible emphasis on limiting hate speech and other content in the media and on the Internet. We note, however, that the Ombudsman wrote in his regular report the definition of hate speech, according to which we consider all that public talk that is aimed at promoting negative feelings, I will say, with a very neutral expression, to individual social groups and individuals. The second thing we would like to mention in the Group of Social Democrats is that there is not a single minister representing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the consideration of this report, either on the working body or today in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, not the minister who is particularly entrusted with the implementation of the principle of equal treatment and prevention of discrimination, I am referring to Minister Milan Zver. We do not deny that ministers should be replaced by State secretaries in the hearing, but that the Ombudsman's report, which is presented once a year in the National Assembly, would nevertheless deserve adequate attention at this formal or symbolic level. Let us hope that something will improve in the future. And now let me draw your attention to some of the substantive issues that can be found in the Ombudsman's report. It is not surprising that even in the 12th report the most long-standing systemic problem of Slovenian society is noted, this is to mention the deleted, for which we still do not have the right solution, although the first Ombudsman Ivan Bizjak has pointed out the problems they face. It is understandable that, at the end of the second term, the Ombudsman drew attention in particular to those problems which are of a systemic nature that draw from Slovenia's independence. I've already warned you about the first such topic. These are deleted. Second, a very pressing problem is the failure to comply with decisions of the Constitutional Court, since the executive and legislative authorities are too often criticising the Ombudsman's warning about non-compliance with decisions of the Constitutional Court or commenting on decisions of the Constitutional Court rather than enforcing decisions. By the end of 2006, 13 more decisions had not been implemented, 10 for comparison in 2005 and 5 for comparison in 2004. Surely, this is one of the most important unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court, which I have already mentioned, which is about deleted, but certainly also about the Law on Mental Health. Legislation is still a major problem, and it is not only bad laws or weak sub-laws, it is controversial to adopt them, because they are too often the result of the victim of trade in party interests, I said at the outset. And quite a few examples from last year we will recall where civil society, non-governmental organisations, were unable to apply their comments and views. Such exclusion from public participation and non-compliance with non-governmental organisations’ comments can be most noticeable or memorable when preparing the Law on Religious Freedom, the Law on Asylum and could also be listed, I mentioned only two where the nature of the civil society participation is more pronounced due to the nature of the activity. The systemic problem is still a backlog. The most initiatives taken relate to judicial proceedings. Many initiatives point to waiting from deposit to start, i.e. from the submission of the initial act to the first main hearing order, while the Ombudsman, in my opinion, points to an even more important point, namely the quality of the trial. I also draw attention to the carelessness of public officials with regard to the problem of people, they are still noticeable in the perception of the Ombudsman's warnings as unnecessary negation; forgive me, it shows that the voice will betray me, so I will end up; and I note only that the Group of Social Democrats has made seven additions to the recommendations and we recommend them to you for admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč, will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u22	Dear Mr. President. A respected guardian. Colleagues and colleagues. In the beginning, I think it is only necessary to say what seems most important to me, and it is in this report, by the way, but it is commendable. The Ombudsman says that the situation in this area is only slowly improving. I would like to give this assessment at the beginning of this presentation of positions, because I think that with such an assessment, regardless of what is bothering us in this area, we can be most satisfied. We can probably share it together. Another thing to be commended is that these government response reports are fast and quite extensive. With this, of course, I do not mean to say that with everything written in there and with proposals, we agree, but this only means that we get the Ombudsman the weight we want and that in fact his questions cause, if not the other, at least some formal reactions. These things must also be said because we have recently witnessed that if someone overly criticizes any of the situations in Slovenia, the government or some ministers may be afraid and threatened with resignation. I hope, I will say, that these two praises are enough to draw attention to those things that, while we have the guardian, are constantly over the realization of these rights and also to the procedures that are largely generated by politics, positional and sometimes opposition. On the other hand, what is worrying and what we have in our annual report is that certain problems are drawing and that certain problems are constantly recurring. How many excuses this is hard to say, but this is certainly a thing that shows that only this darkness doesn't have every single day of central city, but it only has when things get tougher, not only when the guardian, now the guardian, reacts. Another thing that can be different from previous reports and is worth all the attention I need from my point of view is to assess that the whole set of problems related to the issue of co-existence with the Roma population in Slovenia is being exacerbated. Here I am referring not only to these problems that we all know, with the Strojan family, but also to the reactions that have occurred in the municipalities that have adopted illegal decisions, but also to the statements that we have witnessed to them either in this room or from our colleagues in the media. The responsibility of the policy to calm this situation is greater and, in my opinion, it cannot be directed only to the Government. The Black Government in this area has made moves for which I cannot find a reasonable explanation in such a long time. But this is certainly a question that runs through all political parties that run in good work also through more congregations than just the one in which this most infamous case occurred. And that's worrying. The thing I think we can talk about a lot is Mr Hanžk's assessment that the responsibility of politics for the state of human rights can be very great. Again, of course, I understand that the responsibility of politics is broader than that we are questioning only government decisions to question here only those things that have not been done, but should be that there are no specific laws and regulations. These things, I will say, concern me and my colleagues in the Group of Members completely beyond doubt that the things to which it is pointed out that they need to be regulated by law, that with each year he has less excuse for not finding a solution. The problem is that you try to completely marginalize certain topics, that you try to say for certain things, actually, that, because it's not a problem, or if I say otherwise, that certain things are said to be inflated. And we also receive much of this talk in this Hall. I am not sure that problems with the exercise of various freedoms, including freedom of speech, which is neither excessively spoken about here nor the exercise of the rights of Roma, would be deleted and so on, anything less if we did not talk about it. Part of the policy thinks it's a made-up topic. And that, I'll say, is a particular kind of policy that we find difficult to call ignorant, but this erasure of problems is worth discussing. This erasure again, because I would like to talk, I will say, very broad, runs across all the parties, in a way is calculation in certain subjects before the rule as an exception. This week at the University of Primorska we got a new rector, for whom I personally know, and you know, I think he was one of those who did not do enough to solve the problem of deleted persons in time and properly. This problem has been going on for a long time, as we know. We have, I will say, a well-rewarded policy and also a policy - colleagues who had documents in their hands that should be submitted to the Constitutional Court in due time, and they have missed that. There would be significantly fewer problems if the former President of the National Assembly did what the majority will of the National Assembly. These are all the topics that show that it is not only Minister Mate who is looking for a solution that is totally unacceptable to me, which is simply a constitutional law as a solution, which covers an inherent error in return, that would not be necessary. This policy is being dragged around in the internal ministry like a constant. And it also shows here that maybe it's easier to discuss human rights than it is to discuss the responsibility of individual ministers. What I would like to achieve with this debate is that we are aware that human rights are not a subject specifically reserved for one, the other or the third political option, but that we need to be extremely careful when it comes to positions and divisions. Of course, I am against any calculation of these things because if we calculate human rights, we are essentially calculating one of the key foundations of our constitutional regime. At this point, I also find it disputed the position of the Commission or the recommendation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other state authorities should respond more quickly to the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which I agree with. In point 16, for example, for the issue of deleted persons, the constitutional law is adopted as soon as possible, and we know that the constitutional law, not only as it is written, essentially means the way in which the application is avoided, is determined by the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. From this point of view, this majority, which has accepted these recommendations in the Commission, has also made an unacceptable error to the detriment of the exercise of human rights. Of course, there would be a lot to talk about, but it seems important to me in the light of what we have been listening to these days, to recall all those accusations made by the former Ombudsman, when he sends certain reports of the exercise of certain rights to the world and to his colleagues. These findings have, I will say, been repeated in the last days in the same language at the expense of the media and perhaps also certain politicians who are opening up individual topics outside Slovenia. If we agree to this thesis that it is not possible to discuss human rights as universal rights and that we cannot discuss these things with the European institutions, that the Commissioners who cover these things should not be involved, then we very badly understand the nature of human rights and I am not sure that we also understand the basics of our constitutional regime. Therefore, it seems to me that it would be necessary within these recommendations that we have, certainly not only need this in itself, but because of political discussions it is possible to invite everyone to respect the autonomy of the Ombudsman and, above all, to enable him to get as many competent people involved in the debates on our problems, because without these discussions, without a good discussion, without the media and everything, we will not be able to change the atmosphere that is not always the most favourable to the rights of individual minorities and to the rights of individuals for the better. And this is where the government and its president make a catastrophic and unforgivable mistake to declare everyone who pulls it for a language and calls for responsibility as an enemy. This is something that brings us back far, and I will say, distances us from, in fact, such reports that we can still be happy to listen to, and is concerned that certain problems continue to recur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u24	Dear Government, guardian with co-workers, MPs and Members, welcome! We have before us a regular annual report of the Ombudsman for 2006 and an opportunity for the public, citizens, including the authority to be informed of the work of an institution representing the supervisor of the authority, which has all the powers to warn, act and intervene in the event of a violation of the rights of individuals. This is also an opportunity to look at their own work, how citizens are satisfied with our work, and to recommend what else can be improved and what needs to be done to make the country a place where all people will have the opportunity to realize their fundamental freedoms and rights. In the new Slovenia, we are seriously reviewing and examining this report every year, including the views of the implementation of our party's basic programme. We would therefore like to focus on those parts of the report that are critical of the areas that we consider crucial in setting conditions for human dignity. The family is defined in our client's programme as the foundation of the company as its base cell. It lays the foundation for the development of each child, its socialisation and, last but not least, its development. That is why it is important to know what this family is like and what the situation is. We are therefore pleased that the Ombudsman has placed the rights of the child first in her emphasis, as part of this regulation of family relations and efforts to reduce domestic violence. Although I should stress that it must work on reducing violence in all areas and in all spheres. In doing so, it is important to point out that the current government does not stifle the eyes of this type of violence in front of a much higher frequency. That the Government is serious, it has drafted a law on the prevention of domestic violence in order to make progress in preventing this type of violence and to increase the safety of children and the possibility for their happier and safer childhood, to which every child has the right. Since fundamental rights include the right of every person to education or education and the right to free choice of education, we would also like to highlight the part of the report in which the Ombudsman points out that school legislation is being amended too quickly and professionally. In the opinion of Nova Slovenije, legislation is rejected in these days, which has increased the possibility of exercising the right and freedom of an individual to choose, in this case the choice of a school, and brings better or greater opportunities for education of children coming from economically weaker families and whose parents do not have the financial opportunity to send children to schools that they consider to be better education and their children would have the opportunity to develop those values and beliefs to which they have the right and freedom to choose. We will see if any of the parents who have been ignored in these days will be disregarded in the next report. The new school legislation also brings important changes in the field of child protection and the prevention of sexual abuse in schools. Significant progress in the protection of children's rights will certainly be made by family laws, which will also regulate the benefits of those children who have to live in foster homes or institutions. In Nova Slovenija we hope that in the future report we will be able to read significantly fewer reports of violations of children's rights. And if the family is the one we pay the most attention to in New Slovenia, then it is also necessary to highlight in the report a chapter aimed at solving the housing problem for the socially weaker and especially young families. Both the report and the opinion of the Government are halting this issue. This problem occurs in the reports every year. It seems that there was still little done in this area. Young families still find it difficult to get a home or a suitable life - style, leading to the difficulty of making a family. In this area, the country should make more efforts to offer more opportunities for young people to buy or rent apartments. Among the important developments in the family area is the addition of a supplementary law on kindergartens that is being prepared. A free daycare for each other and each next child is certainly an incentive for parents who make family decisions. The Ombudsman points to poverty and unemployment, which the report exposes as a pressing problem in society. Despite the signs that are heading towards the economic and economic prosperity of the countries, which indicate a reduction in unemployment, it is important to recognise that poverty exists, that unemployment is, even though it is decreasing. We believe that there is a lack of activity on the part of field services observing office poverty rather than being active in the field. At times, it is reasonable to say that many receive social assistance unjustifiably or do not try to earn it by work. For many who are in trouble, there is no telling. As we advocate social justice in New Slovenia, for equal opportunities for all to create decent living conditions for all people, we take the Ombudsman's warnings about poverty for serious warning. However, the rules of procedure would also be stopped in the section on discrimination, which covers a large part of the report. I am convinced that all parties like the Government are working towards equal opportunities for justice and freedom for all people in our country. And it certainly applies to minorities, immigrants, so-called deleted and so on. However, at the time of the review of the report, attention or undue attention seems to be paid primarily to one family facing the problem of discrimination. The example of this family in the report is outstanding. In our view, much good has been done in the area of Roma issues by the State. The new amended Law on the Roma Community has been introduced. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment also provides greater clarity and precision in the field of protection against discrimination. That there are problems in solving minority or specific Roma issues is a fact we do not deny in Novi Slovenije. But is the problem with one family really so important that it is given so much attention? We wonder whether the state has done much to resolve this problem, whether it has given sufficient attention to solving the problem. In the view of New Slovenia, the State acted appropriately in the event of a Roma problem. Unfortunately, we note that some forget that rights must be understood in a balance with the duties of an individual. We are not only citizens, but we also have responsibilities, and this family has not known for many years. If people were to carry out their civic duties, there would probably be fewer infringements of rights. In particular, conflicts arise at this point when people demand only rights and they forget duties. Similar issues raised by the report have also been addressed. The darkness has been dragging for 15 years. It appears in recent reports, so we are convinced that a draft constitutional law, which the National Assembly will briefly address, could adequately address this issue. The Ombudsman's report covers many other topics. In doing so, it should be stressed that there are many problems that are recurring from year to year: judicial backlogs, clientism, the problem of social and disability insurance, health and social protection and so on. Each chapter requires detailed consideration. In all areas, much has been done in this mandate, much in social as well as in the judiciary or in the reduction of judicial backlogs and the resolution of denationalisation procedures. However, for each of these areas, recommendations have been adopted by the Committee that highlight the most important problems to be addressed or corrected in the future. And in New Slovenia, as a government party, we are well aware of this, and we take the Ombudsman's report as a report on the functioning of the country and as a guide or direction to what else we can improve or correct in the future. We will support or accept the report in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, a nice greeting to the Ombudsman and the entire team and to the representatives of the Government and to you colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman is undoubtedly one of the most important institutions in every democratic country. This is not so much about the title as it is, but about the insurance function that each Ombudsman brings to a particular society. This is the instance that every citizen and every citizen of our country can turn to if they think that their fundamental human rights have been violated in any way. In doing so, we are asked the question of the eligibility of too often critics of individual holders of political functions directly to the Ombudsman as an institution. If we compare the previous and most recent report, what soon will we find that there are a number of problems that arise from year to year. Among them are reports of judicial backlogs, police proceedings or legal representation. Major irregularities and serious human rights violations have been taking place throughout the years in the most sensitive area, which is within families, causing even greater problems in solving violations, as the family still applies to something personal, something that is only in the sphere of privacy. We are talking, unfortunately, about the lowest acts of domestic violence and the particularly sensitive subject of violence against children who are most cruelly violating all conventions and other instruments on children's rights. We are pleased that the views on this issue have started to change slightly in the spirit of today's time and that the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence has finally been passed in the Government, which can contribute effectively to solving this problem. That this law is truly welcome, we are also aware of the consideration of this law on the labour force, so we even went to an urgent meeting to support this, just to ensure the presence of the Minister directly responsible for this area. With the Slovenian People's Party, we keep repeating this and it's never enough for the family to be the most important social cell. And in our programme we mention our commitment to positive discrimination against the family and strongly condemn all violations of fundamental rights in this regard. For family is the first and most important environment in which every human being is formed. Family means trust and security, and most importantly, the situation in the family as a whole gives us good or very bad foundations for the spiritual development of the whole society. We are in favour of positive discrimination against the family in both moral and material terms. Legislation must therefore be encouraging and not restrictive for families. In our view, the problem of violence and the widespread violation of human rights is such that it is necessary to keep this matter public if we are to make progress, so we are particularly pleased to see the strong commitment of former guardians and the current guardian, so that this issue is also addressed by law. Repeating the same topics or violations in the Ombudsman’s reports should give us a clear idea of what is seriously wrong in our society and ask us to answer why, even in the year of the current report, the situation in the individual segments has not improved at least appreciably. The Ombudsman's report refers to dissatisfaction because the public does not have enough or participate in the preparation of the rules of different types. We believe that the observations and experiences of the public, especially the professional and so-called NGOs, could be a great plus for the legislative process. It may be useful to consider how and what additional mechanisms should be provided to ensure that this cooperation in regulatory development is even more effective. In the opinion of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, individual departments implement the provisions of Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which requires mandatory consultation of the public concerned. In our view, public assistance with its proposals and experience in the creation of regulations is invaluable. And here we are asked whether we are allowing this public to speak at least in addressing the draft laws on the working bodies of the National Assembly. And the question of how perceptive we really are of their views, their arguments and their articulation within the working body. The report also mentions the case of Strojan in the work on national and ethnic minorities. Special concern is aimed at extending and empowering existing stereotypes of the Roma and, last but not least, at the inability of the police in this case. We agree with the Slovenian People's Party that no one has the right to express intolerance in any way and to discriminate against others living in the Republic of Slovenia. We certainly do not defend this because we are a patient party who wants to make changes along a peaceful and culturally-civilisation path. In the case of Strojan, many things have happened, but we must not overlook the fact that something has been done in the direction of a good solution. This year, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment was adopted, which also defined the position of the Advocate or Advocate with the principle of equality. The Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia has also been adopted, which means, at least so, we are sure, a nice and positive step forward. Accordingly, the Government will report annually to the National Assembly on the implementation of obligations to create conditions for the integration of members of the Roma community into the education and education system, with regard to the employment of this community, the provision of conditions for regulating the spatial problems of Roma settlements and so on. So we must admit that something has been done, but of course it can be done even more and we must strive to do so. In addition, it is worth noting that we cannot generalise intolerance or rejection of the Roma in Slovenia from a particular case. If we do not want impatient reactions, we must ensure equal treatment for all citizens. We also express this belief that the Slovenians have never been and still we are not today and must not be an impatient nation. We cannot talk about intolerance towards Roma in general, but specific cases need to be seen as a concrete problem and a problem, not as an intolerance to the individual community. Other cases of discrimination, both on the basis of sex, religious affiliation, ethnicity or disability, are mentioned in the report. The latter seems particularly sensitive to us because it is a vulnerable group of people, especially with regard to employment opportunities. The Ombudsman considers that the proof of discrimination in employment is extremely difficult, but certain mechanisms are available to the injured persons, such as the application to the labour inspectorate, advocates of the principle of equality and the reference to certain directives of the Council of Europe, which require the State to determine the obligation of all employers to ensure reasonable adjustments in employment for disabled persons. In its opinion, however, the government stressed that almost 50% more people with disabilities were employed in Slovenia in 2006 than in 2005 and almost as many as in 2001, 2003 and 2004. In recent years, the government has taken some measures to help improve the situation with, of course, - which should be highlighted in particular - well-concepted laws on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. However, it should also be noted that there is only a certain deficiency in this segment, which is necessary in this regard to adopt or address the law on the equalisation of the possibility of disabled persons. We are particularly reminded of this by years of acute problems that have been expressed both in relation to the blind and in relation to the deaf. Regarding education and education, the Ombudsman wrote that changes in legislation are too quick and too reckless, and also points to the problem of violence in schools, which has been particularly widespread in recent times when we have witnessed many cruel acts of schoolchildren. In the face of violence in schools, we must stress that in the Slovenian People's Party we also consider school as a educational institution. We strive for a school that raises people for human relations and family. We need to mediate our values, our culture, our civilization. Let the school train for democracy and responsibility. We need to raise young people for active citizens and citizens. In the field of labour relations, this time the report also points to the inefficiency of mechanisms that would be more effective in preventing discarded actions such as: consciously irregular wage payments and the exercise of psychological violence in the workplace. On this issue, the recently adopted amendment to the Labour Relations Act is a very positive novelty. However, in the parliamentary group, we are quite concerned about some of the thinking at the time of our high economic growth and thus the great need for additional employment, in the sense of the river 'work is enough for anyone who just wants to work', and it is deliberately forgotten that the fundamental right to be paid for the work done is also due. The moral level of some employers in the Republic of Slovenia is unfortunately our firm conviction, and even though I know things pretty low. Comments were also made regarding our health system. Most of the initiatives relate to inadequate health workers' attitudes and to the lack of information, long waiting types, several initiatives have even revealed incorrect treatment. The case of the Oncology Institute and their housing situation was particularly taken into account. We all know that health is our greatest wealth and that a healthy person sees these problems differently from a sick person. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are convinced that the situation with regard to these problems needs to be improved, even though it has been quite done in this direction. We are convinced that all citizens of Slovenia need to ensure equal access and equality of health treatment and services. It is the responsibility of the State to establish a network, criteria and, in particular, standards that will allow and allow for the simultaneous adaptation of demographic and other changes and challenges. It is therefore necessary to establish a comprehensive system of quality and its continuous improvement to ensure that patients are as safe as possible. As has already been established, the Ombudsman's report highlights above all the most obvious human rights violations, which are carried out year after year. Discrimination in various areas, regulation of the situation of the Roma community, judicial backlogs, police procedures, domestic and social violence in general, the rights of the socially weak and children and employment issues are topics that have emerged in all reports since 2001. These are the topics we need to focus on most because, with the long-standing existence of the Ombudsman's reports, they prove that these are the most obvious human rights violations. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group advocate for help to the weak, we have written this down in our current party programme, which is quite socially oriented. Cooperation between the Government, the public and the Ombudsman is essential if we want the greatest violations of human rights to be resolved or at least mitigated. We therefore believe that it would also be good to have measures to improve the status of the reports prior to the last report presented in a concentrated presentation by the individual ministerial department when the current annual report is being considered. Finally, the presence and consideration of the current report of the Ombudsman would be very welcome as well in the title of the Ministers themselves. On this basis, this book is supposed to be cheaper, as the significant changes in the specific areas addressed by the report are mainly detected due to the biological clock, such as the area of victims of war violence. Our Group of Members takes this report as a good report and we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u28	Respectable guardian, colleagues, colleagues! The annual report is a review of the trust of the Government in the past year, its respect for ethics and rights, so this view of the empty spaces or the absence of all ministers is frapantine and offensive, which means that we know that the Government today has an opportunity to speak to our thoughts on this report for about an hour. He has this time, this relationship, which reflects his absence, is certainly worrying. That's right. Undoubtedly, I also agree, as before me, that the sensitivities of human rights in society increase - on both sides: those whom we observe in some way every day, and those which you record and respond to within the office. The sensitivity to our rights is greater, but as this nothing very thin material bears witness, yet it is not as it should be. It is not just 2006 but in previous years we have always encountered warnings that were relevant, not always addressed. Some drag and translate, but it's important that they get rid of them. The former guardian, who contributed a large part of the text to this report, Mr Hanžek, was a poor conscience of authority, the former, but especially of you. He was loud, uncompromising, very sensitive, and one of you said he was too sensitive. I am pleased that the guardian in her accompanying recital says that she will continue with this sensitivity, perhaps she will do so or she will do so with different tools. It doesn't matter. It is important that the sensitivity to the questions that are observed or observed and addressed by others will not decline. It is also important that it announces that it will not also refrain from politically sensitive topics when it detects them, it will act, indeed, at the very beginning. And that, we see, at the time she took over her mandate, she does. It grieves us that the opening words also ask us how to maintain the independence of the Office of the Ombudsman. It also mentions some items that may endanger this autonomy. It refers to the issue of recruitment, the impact on staffing, salary limitation, wage policy and independence. I think we should all have this in front of our eyes, not only when we're in contact with the guardian's office on the news, but also otherwise. In the Group of Members, we are certainly concerned about the many observations that are summarized in this annual report. In some ways we have tried to react in some way since they were expressed not only in the summary, but during the reporting, when we contacted the Ombudsman, not only within the commission, and have also prepared some laws that would remedy or eliminate those findings with which the Ombudsman came very loudly on the day. We know some of them weren't accepted. It was seen yesterday that one of these was not adopted - a law that was supposed to abrogate his warnings and findings. Some were also recognized in the Constitutional Court as those laws that were inappropriate and violated human rights, they were detained, to say, by the Asylum Act and many more. But allow me to concentrate within our parliamentary group when we have examined this document, but only on the crucial or worrying moments of this report. The fact that the Ombudsman - I think this is part of the Ombudsman's emphasis - has marked as a major problem the delay in the drafting of the laws that the Government has promised, but has not written, nor is it possible that all these delays can be made to apologize. But the worse obvious is the one that the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman stress and we absolutely agree that it is about preparing laws for inadequate or difficult public participation, not only in the drafting of laws but also in other documents; that is, without consultation and coordination, without real public dialogue, especially civil society. Moreover, we read that in the past we have been faced with a number of cases where public participation in the adoption of laws has been hampered and made more difficult, especially in the public debates that have been tried, they have tried to limit themselves in various ways. In fact, let me remind you of a very cruel experience that has occurred in 2005, as a result, in 2006, when a public debate broke down in the preparation of a law that has never happened, we are talking about the film institute law, when the attempt to prepare a public debate has stigmatized a staff member, lost her job, while the public and civil and professional public were called upon to comment on this law in a very pointless way, it is said that in the 14 days in an electronic way to prepare amendments and nothing else, no conceptual comments and so on. What's interesting is, let's not open up the issues of consequences, which have also happened in the way that currently the film Slovenian cinema is in complete disarray. That's when these events started when the word was taken away from the professional and civil public, if I think about it politically, it's always been stigmatized. It is terrible that when the Ministry of Culture, which was called upon to give an argument on the application that the Ombudsman received, why such a restriction on the public word had occurred, instead of considering what it had done, the Ombudsman called on the Ombudsman to say who had given the application and even referred to the fact that anonymous petitions of the Ombudsman should not be accepted, which is of course not true. In short, try to hunt witches. Instead, it might not make sense to consider something more people who can think more like officials who have tried and are still trying to limit or even shift cinema into a completely crisis situation, which of course happened. Another very unpleasant thing the Ombudsman mentions, which the National Assembly has also actually talked about, not to mention all other institutions, is the question that the Ombudsman has in some ways called arrogant public authorities or government officials and officials who cast a bad light on the functioning of a democratic and legal state and lower the authority of all kinds of authorities, and among the citizens it introduces fear, mistrust and so on. The Ombudsman mentions a number of cases that are not new. Talk, for example, about the statement by the MEP and the important official of the government party, Mr Miha Brejc, on the regulation of the golf course in the culturally and naturally protected area of Lipica. At that time, it was publicly stated that "it would be good" if we quoted Mr Brejc and also the Ombudsman, "if we slowly understood in Slovenia that if the Government decided something, it was the decision of the Government and that public servants were obliged to consider how to implement this decision". And so on. It is true that employees must implement government decisions, but not against laws and constitution. As a result, we know that it was someone who defended the profession, that is, the law and the constitution, at work, and that it happened not only there, but in comparable cases also in other places. And even more worrying, speaking of this arrogant, are all the many conflicts that have taken place not only at the level of the Government and the Guardians, but also elsewhere. For example, conflicts between the Government and the President of the State between the Government and the Ombudsman, when the Council of Europe informed the Council that the functioning of the police and the internal minister were illegal and unconstitutional when the Roma family was forcibly relocated to the refugee camp. Not to mention the pressures on the Constitutional Court, which the Ombudsman's report is talking about, and also to the fact that there has always been friction between the executive branch of authorities and journalists because of the desire of politics to submit to the media, which it does, the right guardian, with changes in legislation, with changes in its members to the boards and editors and so on. In short, this arrogance, which is not only summed up in arrogance, but in impermissibility, is very worrying at these levels. Not to mention, of course, the warnings about the irregular status of the deleted who are still coming to the Ombudsman's address, and what is disturbing the government's response, is that the Government boasts of the constitutional law, not of what the Guardian orders it, but not of the guardian who ordered it. Moreover, he says that he is aware of the seriousness of the problem, which we have already heard before today, that they have been wiped out in a difficult situation, but that they have had sufficient opportunities in the past and that they will fix it. But what they're correcting, we know, in 2007, it's too late, five minutes before the twelfth and in an inappropriate way, not with respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, which the Ombudsman and someone else are ordering. What is very important in this report is the escalation of hate speech. While the Ombudsman framed her in the subtitle “Ethics of Public Word, ” this chapter is a matter of concern. And if the President of the Government could think of anything when he spoke about it recently for two hours, he is also concerned about it, not about how the guilt for tension and trust for this government is not a credible situation elsewhere, but not in tense situations within society. The culture of political discourse is worrying. And what the Ombudsman notes is interesting is that in the so-called hostile speech, which, by way of cases, points out the inappropriateness of the regulation within the Penal Code, it briefly points out exactly what I said yesterday when I proposed the amendment of Article 300 of the Constitution of Slovenia, since the Ombudsman also says that the solutions within the Penal Code are inappropriate to the visa of Article 68 of the Constitution of Slovenia and that he calls for corrections to this. Yesterday you rejected this, of course not for the first time, not for the second time, when the solutions were to warn about the loss of human rights when we tried to correct them. We also tried to correct them in the Group of Ambassadors when we wanted to upgrade the Service Act in the Slovenian Army in such a way as to avoid such cases as they occurred in 2006 in the event of alleged continuing harassment in the Slovenian Army, which is also widely noted in this report and what we wanted to do when it was possible to correct through solutions, so that the law would also prevent such situations when harassment occurred, but not without consequences. Also about discrimination in the workplace, that is to say about the so-called mobile phone, we have really talked a lot and we have also tried to solve legislation where it can be resolved. Granted, within the new law that is coming, the Minister has partially resolved this issue, but this could have been even better if it had been written more clearly and not so loose, where it seemed that in principle it wanted to solve this problem, in order to solve it, but in practice it would still remain problematic. We will certainly continue to draw attention to the key things that we thought were important in this report, but especially in the light of where this room can save them. And here I don't think we should, when it's necessary to repair the anomalies that come in the face of human rights violations, watch which side someone sits on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u30	Your Honors are here! I'm sorry, but I really think there's another report ahead of us that's going to go into oblivion tomorrow. And that's what I really mean. The fact is that this is just another substantive one, either by my assessment or by the assessment of the National Party's Group, or by the text or report using the so-called "copy-paste" of the computer program and the report from which the following can be read. In Slovenia we have for the first time a problem with deleted, their human rights are denied. We have a problem with members of the Roma community, they are denied human rights. And in Slovenia we have a problem with foreign workers, they are denied human rights. And in Slovenia, we have a problem with hate speech, both by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and by the coalition members and, last but not least, a large part of it is attributed to the Group of the National Party. I fear that when we meet with the 2008 report, it will also indicate that Saturday's demonstrations, where a few tens of thousands of people protested that this was just an organised trip on Sunday or Saturday, I apologize, November. Because the fact is that the report before us does not know what the Ombudsman would say from the report - I stress that human rights, not individuals, from human rights, should basically be bound; this is the problem of our country, our citizens, workers who do not receive sufficient payments, who generally do not receive payments - but in this case at least are on good - especially the problem of those who cannot receive payments because they do not get a job at all; because social transfers are where state statistics and administration have caused the fact that statistics indicate one thing, reality is completely different. When this speech was given in the context of speakers before me and not least the Ombudsman, who still very deeply notes that there are judicial delays in our country - I congratulate this conclusion, but I do not think that this is an author's conclusion, but this conclusion has been in the subconscious of every human being for years and years. We all know that the solution is also very simple, so that material law is given priority over procedural law. But last but not least, this kind of warning will lead to, or lead to, what I started my performance with, is that today's report will be discussed tomorrow, except in the daily newspaper, when the summaries go into deep oblivion, into the archives of the National Assembly, perhaps with a member who feeds and powers through the criticism of society, into the archive in a visible place, but nothing more. However, I would like to point out what we miss the most in the National Party: we lack action outside of the exclusive and only reporting or evaluation. The Law on the Ombudsman is one of the classic laws of Slovenian law. It may be subject to change, but this difficulty has not been exposed either by the Ombudsman or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by anyone. In my opinion, if the authorship were to come from the Ombudsman, it would, in spite of the fact that, in Article 6 and Article 7, some might even understand it, be assigned to this institution, which otherwise writes its vision, its views; at least in its own discretion or at least in its own discretion, in terms of "liberal or joint independent institutions", which identify this great level of infringement of the Slovenes. Thus, there is also the right to propose over laws. But as I said, the content of article 7 already mentioned, which deals with proposals for amending laws, someone could, if the Ombudsman were one who tries to follow his own words at the declaration level, that is, in reality, also use it. I would like to link that yesterday, in the context of the journals, I saw a contribution on the State Council, where one of the constitutional lawyers said that the State Council had many powers, only that it could not exercise them in practice because their view was too rigid. And I fear that the same is happening within the framework of the Ombudsman's Institute. For the fact is - and this morning I have asked myself - that, in the context of this article, better said under article 46 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman permits or gives him a mandate, competence, and whether the Ombudsman uses this option or not, I quote: "The President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Ministers are obliged to personally accept the Ombudsman at his request within 48 hours at the latest." A few hours ago, I asked to be given information from the National Assembly, how many times such a request has been submitted since 2000 to the National Assembly, insofar as such a wish is made to implement the principles set out in the report - not once. Not once has the previous Ombudsman, who has not been misled in the framework of the National Assembly, used these legal options. And here I would like to bring you to yesterday's conversation in national television in Odessa. So it is too small that someone on the basis of the assumption that he has no jurisdiction - is the result of his work exclusively written beauty in the form of a report. They're actually jurisdictional. However, if anyone considers that these powers are insufficient, the powers to act, gentlemen, we are 90, everyone has the right to initiate an initiative and to propose amendments to that law. According to my assessment referred to in Article 6 of the Law on the Ombudsman, this is also an opportunity for the Ombudsman, with her lawyers, to take the initiative. And I can say with certainty, in the National Party such a proposal, if it comes to be granted this initiative, we will not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u32	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, a respected guardian with fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, a colleague and a colleague! The consideration of the Ombudsman's reports in the DeSUS Group is based on the belief that the Ombudsman must defend human rights and fundamental freedoms for all who have been violated, especially the most vulnerable groups. The report proves that human rights are still being violated with us, not only rarely. We know that changing for a better time requires analysis of the situation that we need to worry about and require measures to address the shortcomings, irregularities and injustices identified more effectively and more quickly, and still caused by too many individuals. Infringement of human rights does not necessarily mean that that rare one feels better. From the individual's point of view, a violation of human rights is a disaster that we must be sensitive to and must do everything possible to solve the problem. We want to highlight from a very large report in our parliamentary group the problems that tend to target the older population, housing problems, health issues, social protection and the protection of children and young people. This does not mean that we are insensitive to other areas that are not lacking in the report, but we note that certain matters are regularly repeated and dragged from one to the other, and remain unresolved despite efforts to resolve the disputed and impossible situation. In the area of housing issues, non-profit renters still face too much costs. The problems in the area of ensuring the normal living conditions for the weakest, it is said, are social problems in this area, and there is also a need for better solutions in the housing law. We support, of course, the Ombudsman's initiative in the sense that the law would solve inconsistencies and problems in this area. It certainly means the fact that 34 4-member families are in the city of Ljubljana, living on 20 square meters of apartment, but this information speaks of the fact that things are not yet resolved here. On the other hand, there are 900 dwellings of such who have one member living there and 100 square metres of residential area. In the field of labour relations, the situation is poor - because of violations of labour law and breaches of collective agreements and contracts of employment, which occur by employers in such a mass number also because of the inefficiency of control mechanisms and inspection services. We fear that the infringement of the introduction of greater flexibility in the labour market will be even more so and the offenders will remain unsanctioned. More than 70% of the new employees have a fixed-term job, which should also concern the country, not only the affected ones, but also employers whose profits are in the hands of workers who will sooner or later use all the means to stop the exploitation. It is therefore essential and proper that the awareness of workers be increased on one hand and the need for an effective inspection of the relevant services on the other. In the area of pension and disability insurance, the report will again address the problem of the inability of BiH citizens who still cannot exercise their pension and disability rights after 15 years due to unrealised bilateral agreements and bureaucracy. Given that this problem is not the first to be addressed in the Ombudsman's report, it would be a time for things to be settled, despite the difficulties that we already have in asserting our citizens' well-deserved but severely defiled rights, with the difficulties of individuals in determining the pension age reached and controlling employers, that they are regularly segregated from their contributions, and that matters of inheritance in this area when it comes to fundamental human rights are resolved quickly, if possible, before the death of those who are waiting for that much time. Despite the efforts of the Ministry of Health and the announced reforms in this area, many health problems continue. In doing so, we cannot go through a long time to resolve problems in the field of medical and disability committees. There have been no cases of irregular treatment and a creaky attitude towards patients, an increase in the number of hospital infections. In doing so, we must stress that the healthcare system in the field of operators works relatively well and that the vast majority of all those who work there are those who have the right relationship and who do everything in their profession right now in the field of medical science. Particular attention should be paid to the continuing agony of the law, which should regulate the field of mental health. This is a legal void, which, of course, in a democratic rule of law, we must not afford indefinitely. It is important to note that there is an increasing increase in physical, psychological violence, which is noticeable not only in families over the elderly, but also among adolescents themselves, which is happening so much in the streets, schools and, above all, there is a worrying lack of appropriate action or failure of professional colleagues and workers in the field of education and education. More will have to be done on improving the trialogue between schoolchildren, parents and children at all. There is a need for more appropriate legislation to regulate family relations more effectively, especially in terms of child protection, and we believe that adequate support is needed to strengthen the institution of confidential persons and to enforce the child's advocate. The difficult material conditions of many families and individuals, which are reflected in the increasing number of social threats of the weakest members of our society, are repeated year by year, not only individually, but poverty is already very much present in our space, as few more than a dozen people live below the poverty threshold. Families with schooling children, single people, are especially outstanding. Among these are unemployed men, who also have health problems and older ones who are dominated by single women. 40% of these last ones on the threshold of poverty are truths that we shouldn't have closed our eyes to. Repeating the story of the welfare of poor citizens is even more unfortunate because we all know that the results of the last part of the pensioners and the current part of the ill-paid workers disappear into the pockets of employers and the thin layer of the rich. Many facts prove that the real picture of poverty is worse than what the country perceives and shows statistics. For many of the poor hide their poverty because they are ashamed to be seen by others. Certainly, in the spirit of the social state as Slovenia is supposed to be, we should ensure a decent life for all citizens, so it is reasonable and necessary to prepare appropriate corrections to the social and social security benefits and to address the causes that lead to an ever-increasing distribution and deepening and flooding of poverty in the country. We welcome the fact that individuals are increasingly aware of their rights and seek to exercise their rights with the competent authorities, but unfortunately there are still too many cases where, despite efforts and enforcement, beneficiaries do not come across the right responses of those responsible and must address the Ombudsman in such cases, but there are still plenty of such legal rules that are insufficient and insufficient in terms of fundamental human rights. We will support the Commission's recommendations for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities in the parliamentary group, and we will also support the additions concerning judicial backlogs, deleted, social security contributions, labour legislation and the criteria for the poverty threshold, and we are convinced that not only does the words and the well-intention recorded remain. Finally, I would like to say that the attacks on the Ombudsman or the unsettled comments of his work and proposals speak of the need for a guardian. In my eyes, the guardian's institute is growing with attacks on him. The Ombudsman is an independent institution in our country to defend human rights and we support it. The Ombudsman's findings on the failure to implement the Constitutional Court's decisions are still visible in the light of not only ignorance and non-fulfilment, but also primitive comments about the Constitutional Court's decision and even mockery, as we see the last constitutional law, which is intended to solve the problem of some 10 cases, and everyone else must forget that they have been wronged. Of course, we will not support that law, we will support the Ombudsman in his efforts to ensure that the country realizes it at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Bogomir Zamernik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and representatives of the government, all those who accompany us are a very nice greeting to all! I will try to be as precise as possible and focus on the problem, not on the person, not on some political assessment of anyone already or anyone who is criticized or who criticises, because if they can wickedly, like children like to say, whatever comes out of your mouth, it is you. If you make some flat-rate assessments of how bad the guardian is, or if the guardian makes an assessment of how bad someone else is, it is a matter of his personal view, and I will try to do as I said, which can be avoided, for this is also one of the reasons that my colleague Peca spoke about earlier, that the report goes to waste. If we focused more precisely on problems, perhaps things would not go away as quickly as if we were just going to be someone. That's why, of course, I feel bad when I'm listening to this kind of evaluation. What if we start here with ourselves? Fascinating and unacceptable, I don't know what kind of expressions they've been using is that there's no minister here, that's what was said. Even if I could agree, I'd like the minister to be here. But since the beginning of the Slovenian state it is Thursday, at this time of the government's meeting. They probably know that if we went to the streets to ask people, the vast majority. I'm sure the college members should know that. And of course here I can say good morning to myself, because I didn't say to our representative at college, "You know what, wouldn't it be better if we did this meeting on Wednesday or Friday, when the ministers could come here?" So a little ash on your own heads wouldn't hurt anything. Then there's the flat rate. In one job, someone lost because he advocated marriage solutions. And that, if that's true, is very worrying. But what am I missing? I miss who, when, where, what marriage solutions he advocated and why he lost his job. But if not for me to fall under this influence of some general evaluations, this report, which has the number 12 and is mainly prepared by the previous guardian, and the guardian has given only some emphasis to her choice and the vision of the conduct of the institution under her leadership. So I want to focus on that. I am very pleased, both personally and our Group of Members, that the Ombudsman has placed children's rights first of all. I'm very happy about that. Here are things that aren't really good, but I'd like to talk about it later on. So allow me to return at the beginning of two years ago to, under the terms of the Ombudsman's jubilee tenth report, where, on behalf of the Group of Members, I somehow put the problem of judicial backlogs at the forefront. We've heard from the government representative, I'm very glad he's back during this time, because I have a question that I'm going to ask you below. Then, if you recall, colleague Zalokarev, we have reached a rather high level of agreement. We were not, we were not all satisfied together - remember the Smolnikar case - with this kind of behavior we were not all pleased and we said something had to be done. And some of you had doubts that this was not wise, but something happened and we are listening to a representative of the Government who says, otherwise for the sake of knowledge other than the President of the Supreme Court, who at the session of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities said this, is not entirely satisfied, and we are not yet fully satisfied with the situation in court, but the President of the Court says so. As I quote: "As in previous years, the judiciary is referred to as the one from which the Ombudsman receives the most complaints and initiatives." Of course, we are not satisfied with this. That's what we're warning the judges." But the most important part says so. "We already have certain positive effects or experience with the amendment of the Law on Administrative Disputes. The case before the Supreme Court was substantially reduced at the first stage of the implementation of this law, which was one of the basic purposes of the law." A similar novelty is being prepared under the Law of Justice. Similar positive effects are also expected here. So things are getting too slow, in my opinion, but they're improving. In other areas, I must admit that I was a little concerned when we discussed the report at the Commission's meeting, we came to the point where the representatives of the Government were supposed to respond. Those, some of you were here that you were there, you know, that there have been no answers from the beginning to all the questions raised by the guardian. Well, then, I think to a large extent all the government representatives have answered the questions. And isn't that the answer, your esteemed guardian, to yours, I assume that the rhetorical question is whether the guardian is needed at all? No one talked about not having a guardian. Obviously, today's debate and what was happening at the Commission's meeting is sufficient evidence that the Ombudsman is needed. Of course, if we listened to some of the performances, we might find that the Ombudsman might not be needed after the mandate has been completed by this Government. Then maybe everything will be fine, but I'm very afraid it won't be so, and the institute will take a long time. So it is also necessary to get answers to some questions. I have already announced, the President of the Supreme Court, as I mentioned earlier, has said this, and I quote again: "We have promised ourselves a great deal from the new jobs promised by the Lukend project and made them financially possible, but it is complicated that there is no interest in judicial service between young lawyers and the elderly, of course, as well. Outside Ljubljana," he says, "we have terrible problems getting judges, so that some courts work with less than 50% of the employment." Thank you to the professional services that have given me this kind of presentation, you also have it on your hands. And he goes on to say, "We're also reacting to the Ombudsman's findings. As far as systemic problems are concerned, I am primarily talking about backlogs, but I cannot promise anything will be better." But here's the important difference between the red lights on my head, just like at the commission's own meeting. For I am a member of the Mandate-Election Commission and, of course, I knew from memory that we produced judges, but perhaps it is not the best comparison, but as Christ from the water wine. Every meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, almost everyone, we appointed a few judges. That's why I got the information you have in front of you or on the screen. I thank those you sent me. And what the President of the Supreme Court says is that he cannot promise that something will happen in relation to the backlogs, and of course it is contrary to these figures of the increase in the number of judges if we take away the comments he made before Norman Dukoff, when he said that in Slovenia he took a very good look at the matter, but that the Slovenian judge solves 220 cases and the German 700. I mean, maybe it's a different number. We can get those Norman Dukoff grades. If we consider this, it would be good today to get some independent Dukoff from somewhere else to look at today’s situation with this difference in the number of judges. From 570 1996 to 1,100 round, which is less this year. That is why, for now, I believe even more to the representative of the Government, who says that the number of backlogs is already declining, 5.6%, if I remember correctly, and that you expect that there will be an even greater impact after which these laws, mentioned earlier, will be passed in two, three years' time, when the goal is that there will be no more backlogs. Hallelujah! What the President of the Supreme Court says is not exactly this way. But so much for that. Madam Ombudsman, you agree that if this has been achieved, that the Ombudsman's Institute has been fully justified in the past and, unfortunately, that still needs to be rectified, is equally justified in the future. I hope there's no more dilemma here. And now to what I predicted at the beginning. What I am glad to see is that the guardian has put her first priority, the protection of children's rights. That's the only reason this session can't be forgotten. For the things that are going on in this area must be countered with all the strengths that can be overcome here, regardless of the nature of the left, right, middle, green, red, whatever, we must cross and cross. Of course, this may be so much more topical because, of course, this does not mean that it was not important before, because this is also directly related to the topic that has strongly employed us in the immediate past, the education of children, which sometimes accompanied by, unfortunately, violence among peers. One part of the report is written down, parents are convinced that school violence is high and that the action of professional workers is too slow and ineffective. By the way, I am also pleased with your promise, Madam Guardian, to say that violence is also a phenomenon that will at least be the central point of your work in the first part of your term. You also have our full support here. When we are talking about the problem of peer-to-peer violence, of course it is necessary to fully agree with the statement of the State Secretary, who is also sitting here with us at the Commission's meeting, that the school itself cannot fully oppose these phenomena and that it welcomes all the ministries that are working in this direction to reduce this and also the Ombudsman's initiative to understand this problem as a complex one and to address it as such. So, peer-to-peer violence exists and is a fact. What does that do? It certainly does not benefit, as the Ombudsman notes in her report, that the system generally protects a number of adults involved in an individual case, both those who resign as professional workers, judges, commissioners and experts. The burden of all irregularities contrary to the child’s benefit is borne by the child and, of course, the whole society as a result. What kind of a travel agent is asking a nanny to give to a kid like that? What kind of passport do we give him? What are the chances that the circle through his children and, of course, in this young country has ever happened? What are the chances that this circle will repeat itself through these children? The big, very big one, it concludes. And I'm adding, what a carefree man might say, it's none of my business. There aren't many cases like this. It's not a problem that would be up-to-date, which would be in the sky screaming. It's not something that's going on in general. What's going on in general? In general, it is socially acceptable that the best news is very bad news. And with such, under the nickname, Slovenian News is us and our children, you can see, be smothered at every step. What's going on up here is just about one week times two, in one week about, 13 of these or 12 of these slides, so in one week, we have about 12 of these addresses. If we don't get them home, we're going to an Arab boat or Manhattan if we don't have such sensationalist news at home. But unfortunately, it's happening with us, too. Look. Murdered, burned, suicide, buried alive, murder party. And that's what we took for our own. You can't do that without it. Oh, my God! The stock market index wouldn't go down if we cut it down. The government, I don't know, let's do research, maybe on the FDV, what's gonna happen to the government's support. Whether it falls or grows if the news publishes fewer such headlines. I believe that's what the F.D.V.'s gonna do. [[...]] K., I said I would refrain from commenting. What if we tried, like, a week of fighting tobacco, a week of fighting alcohol, with the wind in our hair, with the sport against the dog. One month, the National Assembly cancels such things, says we cancel newspapers that report so sensationalistly. Why do I speak sensationalism? Because that's the term in the Ombudsman's report. I don't think it can stop anyone from sitting too long. It was hard for me to watch it, because otherwise I don't usually follow it. And I think that's why I get to live as normal as I do. The report gives an example of an unacceptable publication of a follow-up in one of such tabloids. Two children, alleged victims of sexual abuse. Children, in the articles, have been brutally abused as an object of sensational reporting. Since I've only read this in the Guardian's report, it's frozen on my back. However, when I obtained, including with your help or with the help of the Ombudsman’s Office, for which I also thank you, the articles discussed in this report, I had to physically force myself to read this and to vomit in the first place. Such stories, similar stories are accompanied by our children and us. Well, one more case. Recently, we have been able to monitor Slovenian commercial programmes through the satellite, because it has been slightly removed from the urban settlement. And it happens that I come home at six o'clock in the evening, and the Council is on Channel A. First some very strong on the government's account, then in the same sleep with a cell phone recorded a scene of violence at school, and then in the next two smashers, some reconstruction of two smashers who drove in front of some inn, went in, all beat up, beat up, didn't know everything, and drove on. In five minutes. Even more, after the recording of this inquality cell phone video, there was a preluded video that was played, but it was just so inadvertently said that the person who was merely visual monitoring thought it was the truth. And obviously that's what we want to produce. Why? I don't know. But of course, now I know I'm on thin ice. Someone's going to say, "Well, now it's the Interdefensor who wants to regulate the media how to write." - far from the truth is such a claim. I understand that those who want to earn do what they deserve. The question I ask myself is: Why do people want to monitor this? Why do we want to do this to ourselves and our children? If you haven't read this book, or if you haven't seen the movie with the same title: "The Secret" - "The Secret" I highly recommend it. This mystery was known by the greats who marked our history: Plato, Shakespeare, Hugo, Newton, Beethoven, Lincoln, Emerson, Edison, Einstein. Well, and just one sentence from this book I will read to you: "Not only do you create your life with your thoughts, but your thoughts make an important contribution to the creation of the world. If you have so far felt that you are irrelevant and that you have no power in this world, think again. Your opinion is actually shaping the world around you." What you used to look at on the screens is important to shape the world around us. Is that what we want? I don't want it. And, Madam Guardian, I would like to reiterate that you have my full support for us to stop creating such a world. And it's not like it's enough. The teacher then asked a 7.8-year-old kid at school "Have you seen the reports?"if he's not informed, he's already a little characterized as at least weird if there's no 'in'. My daughter, when we talked about it, read to me the thought she has written on her notebook, and she says, "It's amazing how one atomic bomb can destroy your day, and it's amazing how bad words can destroy good people. It's strange that we don't give up on one another, we don't give up on the other." Why don't we just give it up?Oh, my God! The question I raised earlier, why do people like to follow it so much? Is this some kind of identity with the victims we're looking at from a distance - it's not happening to me, but it's happening to a neighbor, my acquaintance's child. About 500 of them die on the roads, fortunately a little less, but if such a trend continues, it will happen that way. That's about what makes them suicidal. What if we contribute to this by just making it so, because until it happens to me, it's like it didn't happen. Let's try and stop it in here. And if we have achieved a result after two years in the field of justice and if we reach it in this area, I will be sincerely pleased and I am sure that it is not among us who would not be. Why do we want to do this, this comparison, this multi-value, this low-value thing? But this comparison, kind of, brings this -- when we compare, all the inferiority and multivalue disappears, when we don't compare, then we are, we are. Let us face the fact that some will always be more beautiful, more talented, stronger, smarter, seem happier than we are, and on the contrary, there will always be people who will be under us in these things. But who we are, we do not reveal ourselves by comparing ourselves with others, but by seeing whether we are fulfilling our own abilities, as we know and know best. Let's ask ourselves what we want for our children. Whether we want to be healthy in all respects, perhaps a hook; whether we want to be happy, a hook; not to be nervous, to feel fulfilled, to be free from violence, and to find the purpose of our lives. But where do they learn to do that, and if we fill them with this and ask them if you've seen it? Don't we want us to feel guilty all the time? My child sometimes feels guilty because this government sucks so much because you don't want to look at anything. Luckily, I'm trying to keep them out of it, so it's not their fault. But, you know, it's not just me, it's 500 thousand people or I don't know how many people supported this government. And now some make it very public and clear. And you can imagine a conversation between two kids: "Huh, your father supported this government, which is completely worthless. You know how much better it would be if ours were up there." We all have to tell each other what we're doing here. Yeah, right here, I see, you're smiling. But I'm not just talking to someone, I'm telling all of us because I really believe what I'm saying. The question, one more question, I ask you very nicely that this will not now be the subject of a dispute, nor is it my intention to see Mrs Pecan and Mr Kokalj arguing now. Please. Important question: What is more important than knowing what I know, or how I feel? You're going to say how I feel is, of course, in direct complete connection with what I know. Here. But if I feel bad, really bad, if I don't like myself all the knowledge in this world doesn't do me any good. I can be a doctor of economics, sociology, the real thing, I can achieve all the functions in the country, this one and the previous one, and then I can finally find out that I feel best when I put greenery on my head and I'm among people who can have a little bit of joy and a sense of joy in small things. And if so, why not in families, in all institutions: government, non-governmental, any with at least the same attention as what, and as far as I know, they also devote to what, and how, I feel. May our goal be to break the rule of low human numbers. I deeply believe that there are many, more and more of us who swear and live positive values that people can do better. So that they don't get so much power in pardoning, obsessing, fear, contempt, lies, imprisonment, egotism, with one phrase sweeping away from another's threshold. For when you take responsibility for your life into your own hands, then life begins. Some say we have no bearing on this, but what I read to you before, I have no doubt. Why stressing the importance of positive attitudes and traditional civilisation values objectively increases the possibility that new generations of Slovenians will meaningfully approach their peers from a comparable world and thus design their lives and help many others to do so. Not because they would be required to do so by law or by other regulations, but because they realize that perfect happiness will not be enjoyed until people around them are unhappy. Slowly finished. To all of us Members and Members here, a young man from Postojna recently sent his book, which was a collection of events of his journey around and around the world, not in 80 days, but I think in two years. He sent me e-mails that I read with interest. Then he sent us all this book and this letter together. Maybe someone remembers this letter. He said this, and those who don't know, he went without money into the world, only with goodwill, confidence in himself and with the guitar, he survived, even more. He came back when he was 23 years old, and he didn't finish his official college yet. He said in this letter: "Please, I beg you, inspire the Slovenian people to follow dreams greater than our expectations. Tell them what we believe can be achieved. Tell them that we can create the future ourselves and then follow the unreasonablely large plans that we have set for ourselves, making us feel great, connected and fulfilled as a nation. You can use all my thoughts as your own if you think you can inspire someone, that every citizen knows how great and wonderful we are." Are we able to do this without, I'm going to make an ugly expression, "transfer" to the left-to-right? Our Group of Members will support the recommendations we have on the table, as well as some opposition proposals that are heading towards improvement. Thank you so much for your attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u35	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the general debate of Members and Members, which I will lead in accordance with the timetable you have received. I'm not gonna call the unoccupied. Some have changed their names, I'll warn you. Mrs Čebašek Travnik, you can sign up at any time in the debate, in the meantime, or you can speak at the end. I give my word to Lord Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u36	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Not just me, probably many of you to this day did not believe that we were able to discuss the Ombudsman's report slightly differently in 2007. I expected myself to come to such a stage perhaps over three mandates, and I am very pleased that we are discussing today a little differently. I am also pleased that when we heard a different approach in the report, which was the last report of the former Ombudsman, I would say a fresh or different view of the new Ombudsman, with different emphasis. We have heard that the emphasis on children's rights, on judicial backlogs, on the participation of citizens in the drafting of regulations, is said to be on this broader democracy, which is certainly very important, on the more effective work of inspection services, on the problem of poverty and also on Roma and deleted persons. But not as a basic problem, but as one of those areas that are part of this report. And I think that this approach makes it easier and more balanced to discuss those problems that are the real problems of this society, not those that some see, especially those that I have to say are a little bit distant from the real life that they see as real problems. Probably from what we can read and what we have heard comes one fundamental conclusion: Slovenia, at the threshold of the third millennium, undoubtedly reaches high standards in the field of respect for human rights, high standards, has problems like any society and will also have them in the future, regardless of which option will be in power. The Institute of the Ombudsman must have contributed significantly to this. He made an important contribution because, through his modus operandi, through this role of a shock absorber, he has managed to ensure the rise in standards that we have witnessed in the last period. However, I must say that in the last period, especially in recent months, we have faced some problems that are not so explicitly exposed in the report, but are very important for maintaining democratic standards in our country, and it is very important that I make myself clear what I am talking about. I am talking about the right to respect privacy, including in this respect for communication privacy, in general, one of the most basic human rights and the most sensitive. Unlawful wiretaps that took place at the time of the Robbery Government, but I will not deliberately expose the slanders of Robbery, I will not speak to the bugging of Kosa to the journalist, nor will I talk about Lukšič's experiments, no, although I could, on each of these occasions, give a very detailed account of what is a real problem in terms of respect for human rights, and that is the problem that we unfortunately do not detect in our society or that space that creates public opinion for such or other reasons. I would only point out in this place what seems most important to me as a whole political and social sphere. In my opinion, the illegal intervention in communication freedom is one of the worst interventions in human rights, which is even worse in this case, if such an intervention is abused and done through the media as is bad, you will agree, in particular, with those who now laugh at my right if politics, and in Slovenia this is not a government policy, so that there will be no misunderstanding, affecting the media so far as individual journalists become the pir service of the parties whose members and sympathizers are media owners. And among them, registers are public, most of them probably from Pahor's Social Democrats and from Golobičev Zares LDS, mostly in Slovenia. And there, in my opinion, is to seek this pressure on journalists, not with the President of the Government, whom we heard on Monday that not even a correction under the Media Act in one of these media can publish. Now I would like to say a few more words about what has already been said and what the Ombudsman has also been talking about. I'd limit myself to four things. The two that I think are very important and the two that I'm not going to say are not so important are also important, but they are not problems that cannot be solved. They can be resolved very quickly and one of these other two problems is not the one who is supposed to constantly, from the meeting to the meeting, from the debate to the debate, to the workload and employment. And they're showing us to the public in some strange light, when we're discussing this as a problem that we don't know this problem or we don't want to solve it. Of course we can't save him because he's gone. There's no problem. The problem is that the Roma don't have the right status in this country, I'm sorry, there's no problem. Any status, any situation can be improved and so is this. And I think that the instruments that have been launched in the past help to do so every day more, from year to year, so that this situation also improves. And that's right. As is true, the situation of all social structures in this country is improving. All I'd say about the court's backlogs is the following. I don't think it's any longer a problem what we have to do in this National Assembly, what the Government should do, even here must happen certain decisions. Never all decisions are final, but now the main problem is in the same sphere, in justice itself. The patterns of behavior that we know from the past are those that will need to be slowly changed, including this system, which is certainly one of the more rigid systems in its structure, will have to resort to this new spirit and start to work more effectively. And here's the key to success. Here is the key to success, and despite these statistical percentages, which say how much has now been reduced in recent years, I do not think we should be blinded. This problem has not improved significantly. That's the problem. That's the problem. And it will need to be taken seriously, but it can be addressed primarily by those who are key in this process, and these are the players of this system themselves. We have also seen that there is no longer a problem or a human resource structure, not material conditions, I think that these are things that have led to such a level and have improved that they are no longer an obstacle, but that the problem is how processing works and so on. Our task here in this National Assembly and the Government's task is to do as soon as possible what limits us in this regard, is to amend the rules that place too much emphasis on the unnecessary procedure that is not in the legal security function. However, the second area I want to touch is certainly social rights or social status of people in this country. If we were just looking at statistics, then we could say we're doing great. Excellent economic growth, reduced unemployment rates, far down most in recent years, people have regained their will to live, and more and more children are being born. There's been a problem in kindergarten. There's no room. It is said that some optimism reigns through statistical and real indicators in real life. Even if we look at the EU 25, only the Netherlands is ahead of us with regard to the degree of registered poverty. But in real life, I think that the situation is more complex and that it is mostly about those who have become owners of businesses in this country since 1990. They have become in a quick way, without some tradition, the main motive in most of these, all honour rare exceptions, but so far are unfortunately rare, is in achieving the greatest possible profit, including on the shoulders of employees. I will not say that this is happening everywhere, but it is happening and the new policy of the third millennium will only be able to build on the more appropriate participation of all those involved in these processes. We will also have to face this situation in this country, especially those with the power, influence, power and final ownership of these companies. With appropriate redistribution, we will be able to achieve greater effects, and this censorship will also raise the so-called inadequate social strata. For this reason, we have also, among these recommendations of the Commission, which I support, also some amendments of the Social Democrats, written this 25th recommendation that the Government, by amending the legislation, ensure transparency in receiving social security benefits in such a way as to ensure that decision-making is one-stop-shop and that this will make the situation more favourable for the most vulnerable. This case seems very important to me, and I don't think it's good for you to be subject to some manipulation again. Things will have to be arranged in such a way that those who are expected to draw the most from the regulated system will have the most. As far as the Roma are concerned, I believe that in the last period, the law has been passed that a number of measures have been adopted that have improved the situation. It's never going to be all right, but if you listen to what these things are about, they'll tell you themselves that's the way it is. And a few more words about deleted. My personal point of view, I stress, is that my personal point of view was that this problem was not until it happened at this formal level. All those who wished to do so were allowed to obtain the relevant rights or status arrangements by Article 13 of the Constitutional Law on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia to all. Those who have failed to do so for such or other reasons may prove to have had such or other objective circumstances in the procedure to be followed by this amendment of the constitutional law and were unable to settle that status at that time. And that's the right thing to do. However, I do not agree with the thesis that it is not possible to arrange this otherwise than as expressly stated in the Constitutional Court's decision. Amendment of the constitutional law is permitted, is possible, is not contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court because it follows the exact same purpose, regulation of the situation, and once and for all would withdraw this point from the agenda of the daily policy. All the reasons are in favour of settling this problem in this way - all the reasons. It was originally created by constitutional law, requires a change in the high political level of consensus, genuine coordination, and will never occur again. But people who are seriously affected will have a status quo. I personally support the adoption of the recommendation. What a word I'll say to the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Koren, instead of Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u38	Nice greeting, good day to all representatives of the Government, the Ombudsman with fellow Members and all Members and Members. I'm sure we live in a country that has a very high level of human rights. And since it has a very high level of these rights, it is understandable, on the one hand, that violations of these rights also occur in our society. If we did not have, or if we had very few human rights, there would be very, very little violation of these rights. I do not think it would be fair for this report to go to Slovenia today to say: "With us everything is wrong, we have an enormous violation of human rights, we should change everything." I must say that I am here supporting my colleague the Ambassador, that we must look things in the eye and with positive eyes, and also in this way find one appropriate solution, a proper path, a better way forward. The report is very extensive, covering many areas. I will only touch two things in my debate, because I do not think it is possible for me to discuss every matter. I'd like to say one more general thing first. This conclusion, which has already been exposed several times today, is that the situation is improving, though slowly. I think it's the first good positive thing that Slovenians and Slovenians hear -- the thing is, though slowly, it's getting better. The first area I want to touch is the area of the judiciary and these judicial backlogs, which we have been dealing with for a number of years. I have asked myself several times what the situation would be today if we did not take this seriously in recent years and have done much to eliminate these backlogs. I'm sure if the government and our Minister of Storm here didn't work very hard, we'd be in an unbelievably large backlog today than we are. And I think that the matter has started to move in the right direction, and that there is a bright point on the horizon that shows that each issue will improve in an appropriate time. But I do have one question to ask me. What about us Slovenians that the court has so much work to do? And here I mean both sides, the defendants and the defendants. Do we really not know how to live differently, I would say we don't know how to live normally, so that things can be settled themselves in a conversation, calmly, but we need to solve more and more things with the help of the court? I think it is necessary for all of us, each individual, to change first from a Member of the National Assembly, and I will say to all the other people who live in Slovenia. And the other topic I want to talk about is violence. And this violence everywhere. I've also given myself three points in violence, three kinds of violence I'm going to especially touch. And first, violence on the road. I put him first because maybe there's no talk in this report about this violence. I've been on the road every day for two and a half hours, sometimes three hours, and I have to say, I'm seeing more and more of this violence day by day. More and more nervous, nervous driving, sniffing, sniffing, running from one lane to another, especially in the morning we have three lanes on the double lane where individuals are drifting through the lane and endangering other participants in traffic. Perhaps the guardian has not yet received any applications from a driver who feels threatened on the road, who feels violence over himself by certain drivers. What's the reason, I ask? Again, there is a cause in man, in a person who cannot endure anything, who cannot wait for anything, who must have his anger, energy above others. Other violence, I gave myself - violence in school, violence among young people. I have to say here that I'm particularly worried. Where we came to have security at school. To have a child from school, as well as from kindergarten, home beaten, intimidated, under such pressure that he doesn't even trust his parents to tell him what happened to him, what happens to him. What's the cause? What's the cause? We're back. It's people's fault. Third violence - domestic violence. It is noted that the report also shows that there is a great deal of violence. I have to say, I just can't understand it. Domestic violence, where love is supposed to rule, where understanding, respect, both between husband and wife, as well as between parents and children, is supposed to rule in all directions. Why isn't that, or is he getting less and less in the family? We are again with ourselves, with people, with values that we give to children from birth and beyond as long as they receive and draw, for many years. Even older ones are still grinding and accepting our opinions. And when we talk about human rights, it is in this violence within my family that I have also asked the question or somewhere that I have come to realize that there is a lack of love, a lack of respect. Children's rights are also human rights. And a child has the right to love his mother, a child has the right to love his father. If a child gets this love in his youth, there will be fewer of these people when we speak earlier that cause human rights violations to be widespread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Ambassador, Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable guardian with co-workers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Since this last report is the past Ombudsman's report, allow me to express my opinion on his work, which I believe was of exceptional quality and that he has set a very high threshold for future guardians and guardians in Slovenia, and that he has opened up a lot in his work in a new way, with new methods that were sometimes more and sometimes less successful and even between us. However, the Ombudsman's Institute, with the work of Mr Matjaž Hanžk, has gained much in the eyes of the public, I am firmly convinced of this. With regard to the report that we are considering today, I would first like to warn and welcome, as have some of my predecessors, the choice made by the Ombudsman, with a particular focus or focus on the initiative on the issue of the adoption of laws and the involvement of civil society, non-governmental spheres, professions, qualified public and similar legislation. It is clear that both the guardian and the guardian both point out that we have a democratic flaw here. Although the Government has written down in its Rules of Procedure in some way how to conduct these procedures at the time of the drafting of the law before we get them to Parliament, it is obvious that some people are holding on to themselves more, others are less, and certainly their own Rules of Procedure are not followed by the Government many times. In doing so, it seems to me that there is a particularly problematic area, which I am also covering, is the area of health, which is also a number of things written in the report itself, which I agree with, and where I believe that the guardians have warned us that we owe here, in Parliament, to consider preparing an appropriate law that will specify exactly what stages, how and who should be included in the process of enacting the law, that such a law is necessary at this stage of the development of our democracy. For apparently this is not something that ministers and ministers would have respected apriorously, but sometimes even unpleasant debates are avoided in this way. Of course, there is ignorance and disregard for this civil society in the drafting of the law. The most eloquent example in this area is also happening at this time, this is the Law on Patients' Rights, which has been fully prepared without regard for civil society, professions, the public, and we have been warned about this on their part only when we have already dealt with the law here. At that time, letters and warnings began to come to us from all sides. And in an area where there's actually talk about patients and patients, we don't want to make a law without them, and they say that without them, we don't allow it. I must say that even at the moment when this law is somehow being amended and amended, we do not have clear assurances - and I call once again on the fact that the Secretary of State of this Department is also from the Ministry of Health, but to include you in the revisions and drafting of these amendments to the law now and correct the mistake of the former Minister, civil society and the profession of these corrections, because the law is announced to be dealt with by the Committee on 5 December. In doing so, it must be said that many are serving, especially this ministry in the past, in particular the way that the law is actually published only in the narrowest form or in the weakest form on the Internet, and that is all for them. There is no explanation, even when civil society sends some recommendations, some suggestions, no answers, no contacts, no meetings and nothing. And I think that if this doesn't happen in a different way, it's just going to be necessary to play with it, to prepare the law and sort it out. For it is unacceptable that this is so often violated and that it is a contemptible attitude both to the public and to civil society, this is a major democratic flaw that we have been alerted to. Since I am already under the Patients' Rights Act, however, I would like to point out and invite the Ombudsman again to reconsider, together, that this very civil public, civil society wants the Ombudsman of patients' rights in one person as an authority, as someone who will represent a real person for them, who will help them to violate these rights. And in this respect, I call on the Ombudsman, in particular her co-workers, to reconsider whether it is true, because I know their position that the Ombudsman is not a suitable solution, because there are supposed to be some legal misgivings about the Ombudsman not being able to represent individuals in individual proceedings, but the Ombudsman is just someone who acts and calls on the State institutions. I personally believe that if the law determines exactly what its powers are, then it will also be clear how and what and where it can also represent patients or patients. In this sense, I call again, because the alternatives are only two: whether this large, huge 76-member commission - in which we have heard from the latest positions presented in the media, and where I have attended myself - will have almost two thirds of the members of the medical profession. In this I do not see the real possibility that in reality the patient's rights will be protected independently, independently and properly. Last but not least, there would be a lot of solutions within the Medical Chamber at this point, so ask patients and patients if they trust this - after this. And of course it is also pointed out by the only guardian who now exists within the municipality of Maribor that such a form, when doctors themselves are actually the only ones to protect patients' rights, that this certainly will not be the right and proper solution. And in this sense it is also extremely important your position as to how at this second stage. However, we have obviously already agreed on representatives, somehow, that they are an appropriate form that operates at the provincial level and where the most direct possibility is also the resolution of most of these disputes already at this level. Since there is something written about this in the report, it seems correct for me to say something about it again today, because things will obviously run very quickly in the coming days, although I myself have been a proponent of taking maybe a day more time after we have been preparing this law for 10 years, it would be no big deal if it were adopted in January and not in December, taking the time both for civil society, both for re-examination and, of course, for discussion with the Ombudsman on its position in this area. But I would have touched two more issues. One's more current. In fact, it seems to me that somehow the story of these unfortunate children from the village of Zdenjska did not get a real epilogue in public, although the guardian gave an extremely clear message that there is no breach, it seems to me that there are many strange feelings in people that, although all things may be even legally correct, decisions are true, but the way that this has been applied - people do not seem to be true. It seems to me that today Mrs Chebaškova would still be doing a little bit of this because I think that one suspicion or one small criticism still remains here at your institute. Above all, I am interested in the principle - whether the social work centres, which are repeatedly on the wallpaper, or whether social work centres can really be the only and only credible body dealing with the issue of adoption and fostering - themselves as such. Because it's obvious, and we're seeing this all the time, because these stories are happening over and over again for about six months, some of the affairs that there are problems. I'm also interested in your opinion - when you've been investigating this case - whether the centres can actually be the only ones that can do it right. Personally, the question of so-called anonymous adoptions, which then take place in such a way that the remaining school bags on the face of the city and toys are still at home, seems to me to be a very serious intervention. And I'm interested in a comment from you. The last thing is the question of the so-called methods of personalization, which is the issue of the police and which we have accepted with a great deal of difficulty in Parliament, we have had a lot of concerns and is now being used in Slovenia in an extremely different way. In each police administration, they have their own vats and, say, one police station prescribes this for sports events, in fact, constantly for everyone. In particular, in the home football field it is already a practice from week to week, as if we have the most, I will say, a wild sports audience in Domžal, but we have real chamber viewers, here and there, who comes from elsewhere. And this is an extremely sensitive matter. When people come to one football game, they have to show their ID to get a ticket. And even more, they can't leave the stadium in half an hour, but they have to, I'll say, stay there. And it seems to me that the Ministry of the Interior has not prepared the appropriate grounds to resolve this matter in Slovenia in a uniform manner, in order to have some criteria and criteria. And then we said that this method would be an exception earlier, but unfortunately in practice it becomes a rule - at least somewhere. I think we have a much more problematic place in Slovenia, but we all have them in our minds with a more hooliganic audience, but unfortunately this is only happening to us in Domžal. And I think that's also the reason that many people wonder who's driving people away from soccer courts. Surely it is not pleasant to be exposed in such a way and it is also, in my opinion, an intervention in certain human rights, which is so easy to serve in Slovenia from day to day and from week to week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Member of the Christian Johns.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman. Respectable guardian with co-workers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The debate is interesting and will probably last, and it will be interesting, because seven hours means that this area is a group of Members, surely important to Members. And any consideration of the institute's need is completely unnecessary here. This Institute of Slovenia needs to be able to draw attention to certain warnings, the opinion of citizens who are being wronged, and it is also right to discuss this with the National Assembly in a responsible manner. I am sure that this report and this debate will not go into the drawer, as some have said, but will certainly go between us, between the Ombudsman's Institute, the Government and all those who are somehow responsible or responsible for this area that touches our citizens. Human rights, we know how important they are, even in Europe as a foundation of every democratic society, and it is right that somehow together, we are trying to improve them with common strength. I believe this, I am sure, but I speak more in terms of the environment from which I come, that these things are going to be better, that there are fewer and different ones - but of course mistakes are occurring, certainly some more in larger urban centres, perhaps some less in smaller centres where these things may not be happening so much or on a smaller scale, or perhaps even not yet discovered to come to the voice of one who might be reminded of such or other problems. I think that the government's response in these three years, according to my estimates, has been in the right direction, that we have tried to resolve enough of these things patiently in the spirit of what was the previous report, what is happening to us both in Slovenia in specific areas and that is to be followed. To try to be better than yesterday, but expectations are still greater than real possibilities, such as the possibility of all these collective efforts to mitigate or accommodate this. True, there has been quite a bit of talk about this today, and I have often been approached by citizens, citizens - judicial backlogs. This is still a major problem despite all the efforts that this Government has made recently; people still have these waiting types of too long before one example or another ends. This takes too long, too long, obviously, because we Slovenians have become into these things such that for every little thing they prefer to go straight to the lawyer and to the court without first seeking any compromises, to talk, to find a solution outside the courtrooms, outside the legal services that are always well charged - perhaps this is also one problem. But this is likely to be difficult for the National Assembly to resolve. This is some state in society where we think we have to go to court for one piece of border, half a meter up or down. The solutions are much simpler, not least I have been involved in a number of such problems myself, but I can say that we have successfully solved some of them at the local level, without a court and a lawyer. I hope that all these measures will make a difference here, but it is also likely that our society has high procedural standards, which is also possible, and on the other hand sometimes complicates these matters and makes the final results of the court more difficult for our citizens, legal entities and so on. We've talked about poverty, including the guardian herself. Of course, this is an important question to increase, which worries me a little bit. That's what I'm really worried about. I would say that I don't have this feeling in the environment that it's really increasing, but I do know that there are cases where somehow their voice doesn't sound or they don't want to be exposed. This poverty exists, and this poverty is. Not to mention those pensions, not even farmers that are catastrophically low, not to mention those and others - if I refer to the next chapter, social security, social story, because the possible transparency of the recipients is still not valid. I also discussed this a few times in this National Assembly, and there were some suggestions that this would somehow be aligned in one place, receiving one or another. Unfortunately, we don't have that today. And here certain injustices happen, there are certain social benefits for people who may not be entitled to them, and they get them, and those who are entitled may not even get them. These are problems, these are problems in society. And that these property and other matters are regulated in different areas in our society, not in one place where we could have an individual and family to really see whether it is as it is or not. Unfortunately, each institution works for itself, in its own way, and then each one looks at different addresses of such and different sources, sometimes more successful, sometimes less successful. This, I think, is a general problem that we should settle in one place, just as we have some other matters all in one place, the economy, for example, these rights all in one place. It would be fairer, more transparent, more fair and so forth. Unfortunately, it's not there yet, and I think the criticism stands. As far as education and school violence are concerned, something has already been said. I think and I hope it's not as bad as some of you speak, even though I know that violence exists. And what's worse than violence against children, against our children, the worst I can't imagine, but it's also happening, but I hope that as little as possible and that we'll all be able to help this happen together. Another matter also seems very important to me - housing issues. We also talked a lot about this in the National Assembly, and the Government has also taken a few steps in the right direction to allow young families, especially those who are weaker members of our society, to have a normal stay. The steps, the results are partial, I'll say, I don't think is satisfactory, which is especially true for urban centres, for places where housing units are chronically lacking. This is a little easier in rural work, at the end where this demand may be slightly smaller, because unfortunately, moving or moving is increasing, more and more young people are fleeing from the centres, towards Ljubljana, and, normally, there are empty residential areas, while in Ljubljana new ones are looking. And of course this imbalance between demand and supply is significantly greater in urban centres. But we're probably going to have a hard time stopping this, maybe partly with provincial legislation - maybe if we take it. However, all these trends will certainly not be stopped by this company, and this government will not be able to stop, this influx into the centres will be increasingly and less, of course, vice versa, from Ljubljana to the countryside, if you want. As far as the family's concerned. My family seems to me to be one of the most important values, and it is the base cell of every society, one way or another. But I think he's in some kind of crisis these days. It's definitely in crisis, first of all because we're becoming a society where we just have to work, I don't know, ten, twelve hours a day and simply no time anymore. Children are in school as long as they are in school, there are seven, eight hours in most cases. Then at home, as much as we can do together a week, calculate each one with you. Those who still have or have school-bound children feel this every day; I am not talking about those who are Members but the mayors who feel this much more. But that's the problem today. After all, these contacts and values have somehow gone through the time of capitalism that we have decided on, and there are no longer those golden times when our wives or men have worked from six to two, but they have been since two afternoons but more with the family, with the children, raised them and so on. More and more of this education is now coming to schools, kindergartens and so on and we expect schools and kindergartens to raise our children. We may be wrong, they need a father and a mother, but unfortunately, it's getting less and less. This is a general problem of society as such and the family is neglected. Not to mention the problem, the phenomenon, not just Slovenia - the extralegal community. This is a special chapter that we have not yet touched, why it is growing so dramatically. There are probably economic reasons, not just social phenomena. There are several reasons, but we haven't talked about this and we don't want to talk about it, because this thing is in itself reasonable. Weddings in Slovenia are falling, I haven't said anything new, and it probably won't be any better in the future. Finally, all these things are important, including many others that have already been listed and will be listed in today’s debate. I think it is right that we take them seriously, we are aware, every Member to himself as a Government, and certainly the guardian will also be on the next report when she comes to the National Assembly at the end of the year, seeing or finding that we have all taken a step forward together. I really wish things were going in the right direction. However, I will also somehow fall apart, and allow me, fellow Members, even many sparks come between us in this National Assembly, when sometimes we are too divided on those important issues of society when we adopt important legislation. That's not good. It is not good that we sometimes do not know how to listen - neither one nor the other, except for one - and that we sometimes behave inappropriately in this circle, in this house, which should be an example of our mission to our citizens, to our people, but unfortunately many times this is not the case. I think that even when it comes to the adoption of the law, sometimes there is a lack of will and compromise that the law will be such that it will be adopted by as many MPs as possible in the National Assembly - not only by the positions but also by the opposition. We are all putting too little effort together here, including the Government, Members, Members of Parliament. There are still opportunities for us to find more understanding and more obedience to each other, because, last but not least, legislation, when adopted, applies to all citizens, not only to coalitions or opposition. It would be worth a lot more effort here. I am convinced that this would make greater satisfaction, more synergy and, in the end, even better legislation than we have or accept it. I am convinced that I am fortunate that I am very much among the citizens and listen to their problems, their hardships and what is not well-intentioned as citizens want to tell the mayor, Members. I think that listening to their problems is close to me, familiar, and I'm trying to say it here more than once. I say this about my environment, which is not the same as other environments from other parts of Slovenia. But for my environment, it is a practice and a way that I would like to see as little debate as possible in this house and as many good things as possible in the sense of this very important area as human rights. Finally, it also confirms that we are not the most ideal public opinion of the National Assembly - rating, not the most highly written. Let's make sure that at the end of the flight the osorium gets a little bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. But to the word I invite the representative of the victory of the noble Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that we have before us this annual report of the Ombudsman, mainly because of one thing: because it is the last report of the Ombudsman, who has fought very hard for various human rights, especially the various marginal groups, and he has forgotten that he is the Ombudsman of the human rights of the Republic of Slovenia. And for Slovenian citizens, the usual, those who pay taxes who take care of their children who send their children to school, they didn't care about them. It is interesting that in his report, on the five sides, he is parliamentary with a member who has been on television in connection with the Gypsies, which is me - on the five sides. He's not interested in the other issues. Nowhere in this report did I find a word about a horrifying case called paedophilia. Not a word! I don't know why! Maybe he has his reasons. He probably has them because he couldn't think of anything else. This is not mentioned, for in Slovenia the judicial branch of the authority of pedophilia, if pedophiles are already punishing them, usually punish them with such ridiculous penalties, conditional if they are ever punished. Nor is Mr Hanžek going into a debate about the fact that there is actually a horrendous error in justice, and that is that our judges and prosecutors have the so-called 'lifelong mandate'. Some judge is in his 30s when he doesn't have any life experience chosen for a judge and he shares justice, left, right, usually wrong, bad, very bad - I can say from my own experience - because many judges don't know the law, but when they do, they say, "It's human error." That was even a statement by some former Justice Minister, some former prosecutors, you'd be wrong about her being human. And about this "mistake is human" by the judicial branch of authority in this report - nothing! Nothing in this report is about school violence. Violence in schools is reversed and there is no more violence of teachers against students, as it was in the 18th century, but it is violence of children, students against teachers. Nothing can be said, no student can be sent out of class if he's doing some kind of "casine" - and what? Nothing, it's all right! The person has the feeling that he may also be to this former, thank God for the former ombudsman, rather than the Slovenian school being Americanized in the worst sense of the word. To be Americanized in the sense that in American "smelling" schools, when students beat up teachers and I don't know what else. When a parent comes to school, that's what happens in America, and he's got a gun behind his belt - if you do anything to my kid, I'll kill you. It's interesting that our former ombudsman doesn't care, but good. He's gone, and I think it's very good that he's gone. I hope that the current lady, the new ombudswoman, will not make such nonsense and mistakes. After all, so far nothing bad about her. When Mr Hanžek speaks about minority rights, he is very committed to minority rights, but he does not forget that, for example, those minorities in Slovenia have one specific right, namely that both the Italian and Hungarian minorities have something unacceptable, according to European standards, which is unacceptable. It's a double election right. First, they have the right to vote from a minority position where they choose their own, including a direct representative in Parliament, and then have another election right to go to their political representative in Parliament. Europe doesn't know that. And it seems that our gentlemen, including the European Members in Europe, do not talk about this, because it is something beautiful, good, positive, I don't know what else. If only we cared so much about our people and our citizens! It's not like that. Even if we look at these gypsy saints, let's get some statistics. Many have resigned, some have gone to prison, some are waiting to go to prison, and in the end, they are subject to business in congregational committees or in municipal councils. There's a business going on where someone gets a vote and what they get for it. I don't know if that's the purpose of justice, and I don't know if that's the purpose of democracy and democracy in a country. It is interesting, however, that Mr Hanžk is not in pain that, for example, the European Court of Human Rights does not use the Slovenian language. But we have entered the European Union where we are supposed to be equal! But there's only French and English. Interestingly, it is only French and English in the text, but if you go to look at the judgments received by German citizens, it is also written in German. That's saying, here's the "number" something with the actual state as shown here. Of course, Mr Hanžek is very much in favour of the Gypsies as well. He doesn't care what's true and what's not true, he doesn't care at the end of the day about the gypsies, not the gypsies, but I don't know if we can expect it now, thank God, probably not anymore, but if Hanžek stayed, we should probably smoke all the books of Janez Trdin because he was talking about the gypsies not about the Roma and what he wrote about them. I believe that Mr Hanžek did not read this because it is a Slovenian classic, he reads something else, perhaps also a Belgian inspired, but certainly not a Slovenian classic, or he would know this matter, he does not know any opera works where they still talk about the Gypsy Baron, not the Roma Baron. It is also interesting that it does not go to social work centres, social work centres are lying in irregular situations, from which to a large extent there is a whole range of problems in irregular families, because instead of regulating them, they regulate them in their own way, they do not know, they do not know, they do not know, they do not want, but go a little among people and ask them, not those who complain here, but those who are sorry and humiliated, who will not come anywhere else and who are always in Slovenia. Nothing comes down here to the problems of those people who barely spend days because they don't have money because they can't buy food because they can't buy food because they can't buy school supplies and the like, unfortunately we're coming in during these periods, but they don't care about it, but they do care about it, say, they've been erased, and we know that most of these people have come into this status because of speculation and because of trying to make as much profit as possible first after they've become independent, when they hope and believe that JLA will hit back and win and they will get great positions, but then that they won't know who will give them some additional rights. The actions brought by these people against the country of Slovenia prove all of this. Some political parties that are more interested in having different asylums and being erased, I don't know who else, the allowance, they also support it; however, I hope that our citizens will at least until the next elections "bring down", and they will consider who wants what is good and who is fighting for whom. In short, I once again say thank God that this is the last report of this gentleman. I wish him a peaceful stay in the rest of his life, it would be good if, during this time when he has nothing to do, he could read something else, what a Slovenian classic book, and another classic book - and thank God, he will no longer spend his stupidity around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. But to the word I call on Ambassador Mir Petk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear congregation, all present! This report has now been prepared by Matjaž Hanžek, former Ombudsman. I think that it is well-prepared, and above all it is important that the situation in this area is improving. Unlike some of my colleagues, I am a good judge of the work of Matjaž Hanžk, of course, he also had individual circular routes and "gunshots past", but the whole work was done well, he sealed the institution, he made this institution recognizable. Today’s current Ombudsman announced a different way of working. That's understandable. Of course, Matjaž Hanžek is one and unique, and it is difficult to imitate him. Human rights, however, are universal, regardless of who the Ombudsman is at a given time. But I'm concerned about the work of today's Ombudsman. In fact, she recently participated in one of the press conferences of one of the political parties. I wonder if this will become her practice, can we count on other political options to participate in our press conferences, or has she been abused? If politics is to be pursued, then it is better to go to the elections and prove itself there. I'm particularly concerned about her irresponsibility in the Ranc case. It has been found that the Ranc case was an exclusive violation of human rights of journalistic freedom, and I have not heard any response from the Ombudsman. This is likely to be recorded in the 2007 annual report, but it will be quite a "passenger" by then. I also did not hear her response, for example, to the violation of human rights, an unacceptable intervention in the communication privacy of former opposition leader Janez Janša. That I will not do injustice to the guardian, because it is only a good year in this situation that we will wait for this function - or a bad year - to carry out this function for a little longer, longer time and to see what report it will prepare for 2007 and then we will be able to assess it more competently. The report prepared by Matjaž Hanžek will be endorsed or accepted with all recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I invite Member Bojan Kontic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Already in the introduction, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the essence of our assessments was said, the essence of our views on the last report of the Ombudsman, namely Matjaž Hanžka. I also consider his work to be good. If we remember, in the past, for the Ombudsman and this institution, few people knew, after his appearance, this institution became recognizable, as well as due consideration. And if now a little bit about the content of this report. Among the most observable and serious problems is still the issue of discrimination. The number of cases dealt with in the 2006 report has risen rapidly. It is also important that he received individual irregularities or complaints and was also warned about them in the field of labour relations, in connection with violations of employment rights due to regular and extraordinary dismissals and bullying by the employer. Some employers do not find it necessary to respect legislation because of the inefficiency of the control mechanisms, i.e. insufficient labour inspectors, the slowness of the proceedings before the courts, the non-implementation of criminal proceedings against employers. In doing so, I should also point out the most pressing and most pressing problems at this time, which are likely to be contained in the Ombudsman's 2007 report. These are foreigners who are employed in the Republic of Slovenia, about the situation in which they live. The guardian will probably have to see it for herself or see it, because these people do not complain, these people simply live and work here in Slovenia under conditions dictated by the employer. Some also refer to this as modern slavery. We are also alerted to the escalation of hate speech or racist speech. This was particularly observed before the 2004 elections. In doing so, the Ombudsman highlights the ignorant role played by the authorities which are bound to prosecute such crimes, in particular the prosecutions. That's most of the applications rejected. At all events, the authorities did not detect any crime or conduct motivated by ethnic hatred. It is important to note that important progress has been made in the planning of gender equality policies. That's good. Regarding the protection of children's rights, something has already been said in this Chamber and the attention paid by the Ombudsman in this first part of her term of office to the children's rights is commendable. Housing issues have also been mentioned. And housing issues remain a pressing problem in the year covered by this report. Young families and materially weaker families have poor housing opportunities, and this has not improved during this period. It is important, however, that the number of initiatives taken by those who feel this as the biggest problem in their lives, perhaps even the injustice they suffer, has been reduced by 1/3. It is also an important warning about pension and disability insurance, which remains a problem. Even in 2006 the Ombudsman dealt with these problems, and individuals are still too familiar with the rights and procedures of their application to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. An important chapter, important activity, action, action also in the field of social protection. The government's assessment that 10% of people living in poverty, i.e. below the poverty threshold, in Slovenia, is important. Of course, if we compare it with other countries, we can find that it is even worse elsewhere, but that is no reason for us to make a decision not to deal with this problem. The reason for our active role is as long as the poor in Slovenia are no longer, so these cases will no longer be. The amount of cash compensation, cash assistance, does not allow a decent life. In doing so, it must be said that the decent life of many no longer affords the wages they receive for their work, the pension they receive for what they have done in the past. These people, too, are becoming socially endangered or make up 10% of socially disadvantaged people living below the poverty line. This is particularly disturbing. Again, I agree with the Ombudsman's finding that he advocates powers to ensure the effective performance of the tasks entrusted to the police in a democratic, legal state. In doing so, it is essential that the State realises that it is necessary to leave the individual who respects the rule of law alone. All others, but those who violate the rule of law, must be sanctioned. However, when we talk about police work, let me say again, as I have done several times in the past, it is not just the powers, it is also the equipment of police officers, it is also the salaries of police officers and the increasing number of police officers in individual police stations. I reiterate that the number of police officers in police stations is decreasing, that the preventive action of the police in the field is no longer in place, and that the matter will continue to deteriorate significantly with the new year, when a number of police officers will definitely be needed to protect us, given that we will chair the European Union, and this preventive action can also be reduced in the future. Of course, it is not a coincidence that the new Law on Municipal Government will actually come into force as from 1.1.2008, which will impose matters on local communities as one of the tasks. So, public order and peace will be under the jurisdiction of local communities. How this will be done is another question. As far as health is concerned, there are some questions here as well. Insurance rights, many patients seek treatment abroad, and many find their applications for reimbursement rejected. I know at least one such case in Velenje, when a youth has sought his solution abroad, but now there is no way that he can recover the costs, even though it is evident that his medical condition has improved. There are stories in the report that are written by life. And it's only possible for us to be happy who aren't involved in these stories one way or another. Yesterday, I was not disappointed because I was disappointed in this National Assembly for several years, but I was sad when I listened to discussions about the allowance for asylum seekers. That's how I used to remember signing sometimes, when I was replacing the mayor, the dog asylum bills, the cats. And I can tell you that yesterday we were talking about 10 euros in allowance for a month for an individual applying for asylum, and of course we missed out on who people who are asking for asylum are missing, that it is people who are fleeing from their homeland, if they have it, who are fleeing to save a naked life, naked survival, and we have said with great demagogies that we do not respect the people who are poor in our country, that we do not eliminate poverty in Slovenia, and this as an argument that they do not give these 10 euros a month to these people. As I said, I was sad, but not disappointed, especially when I thought about it today, let's say a day of care for a dog, let someone tell me that I'm not an enemy or someone who doesn't understand animals - I have a home and a dog and a cat and a parrot, and there's probably something else to find, so I can't see it. But 10 euros, almost 10 euros is a care day for a dog and almost 4 euros for a cat that they watch out for because people find it abandoned, which is primarily the responsibility of those owners who leave them alive. First, they are chosen to be content with their children and then thrown out of the apartment for free to be dealt with by the local community, as stated in the law. I wanted to make a comparison. For much less money we provide a daily hot meal for those who need a meal because they do not have the means to secure this daily meal. So these comparisons can be very harsh, they can be harsh, but the truth in life is about that. And finally, a little joke, a little. I am sure, or it may happen, that the 2007 report prepared by the Ombudsman will, of course, record, after the end of this year, what injustices have occurred to the Government or to the President of the Government during this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Anton Kokalja.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that this item of Parliament's agenda allows us to speak quite broadly, which is not often possible in the context of legislation that is narrower, more clearly oriented. That's why I thought it was a good idea to listen to Mr. Viceroy before he opened up the subject. In fact, human rights are a very broad area and I think it is good that once a year it is possible for us in Parliament to exchange the views of Members and make some kind of social analysis. I'm sure we're not all just sticking to this document, and I don't think that's wrong. Even if we express our feelings in certain matters, as my predecessor did, I don't think there's anything wrong with it, and I think it's okay. And perhaps it would come from what Mr Kontič mentioned earlier, how sometimes we are caught with certain rights, maybe not even directly human beings, and we are very robust about matters that have much greater meaning for everyday life or for some satisfaction, I will say, the daily lives of certain groups of people. I myself believe that this institution is the guardian, as has already been mentioned today, certainly necessary, but I think it deals with the issue quite superficially. But this is not a criticism, it is a fact that this institution certainly cannot deal with all dimensions of life more deeply, but one of the aspects for which it would still be good if it were included in the report itself, if it were to at least some extent, is to identify the causes of the facts cited as human rights violations. I think that finding the causes is also the way to solve these facts, these violations, which we are talking about and then more or less we are trying to put them into our political speech and our political marketing of each political group. Of course, there is nothing wrong with that, either. I think we understand each other and we can read it. I myself have discussed - I do not know whether last year or before last - the lack of specific content. I must say that Mr Hanžek, too, has brought certain content into this report. One is certainly an aspect of the traditional family, which is referred indirectly to in the chapter of children and young people in educational and educational institutions, where it notes that these children or that the process follows some inertia that has been established in the system before, I will say, a non-democratic system that has been applying values that were not traditional and has tried to eliminate this community aspect, a family aspect in solving problems. Even when the family has problems, there has been an attempt to eliminate and solve the problem too individually, and there is still a solution. It is not included in the family as a whole and in this way we can help the child most effectively. I wonder what the cause is, say, of increased violence in schools. It seems to me that this is much more important than simply analysing what kinds of violence are - and this is important - but to look for the main reasons. What is the cause of pedophilia? To what extent does it occur in Slovenia, what is it and where does it come from? This is kind of a problem for developed societies. Why do these things happen, I'll say, abnormal phenomena in society? Why is suicide so high in Slovenia? This area has been more explored, but we are not looking for answers. Then the report also mentions domestic violence, which is clearly a bigger problem than can be seen from the outside. And here too, the question must be asked why this problem arises, why this violation of human rights occurs. Depression, anorexia among young people - there are many problems. On the one hand, this is my view of the matter, I interpret to some extent this situation also because we already have in the title of the Ombudsman, I would add "and duty". I think that no right is only individual and no right is absolute, it is always balanced, I will not say limited, but balanced with the right of someone else or also with the duty that a right can - a right is sustainable or sustainable if it also has a duty that it supports. And I think there has also been some kind of imbalance in Slovenia. I will give some examples that are not to be spoken of publicly, because they are taboos of darkness and also advise politicians to talk about topics that are borderline, including the fact that certain themes, the taboo of darkness are set up, and that the media is actually relaxed and does not actually write about them in research, means something. I'm sure that's part of the answer - where the reasons are, I don't know. We have, if I limit myself to the children's population to their rights, we have a highly developed way of thinking, not only about school, but also today we have heard in society, rights. If you listen to school parliaments, including how to work with these young people by mentors, it is mostly directed to rights. While modern doctrine teaches us that children also have the right to set boundaries and that children are looking for boundaries in their growth path, and if we do not set those limits, we do not raise children. Okay, this is one systemic problem that, in my children's opinion, doesn't help them find some balance in their professional life and in their own reality in life. In addition, the need for children for both parents has already been mentioned, including those who have been able to study in recent years at school. Anyway, that sounds old-fashioned. That's a fact. For example, especially the lack of fathers, this is referred to as a problem in modern society, this is not mentioned directly in this report, I said that the family mentioned is like the environment most healthy, which is the most natural, that certain things can be remedied. However, the fact that some classical form of family through the whole state system is the form that can prevent the most deviant forms is the most problematic, in some ways it is no longer mentioned in our social space. It's become some taboo theme, it's become a non-modern topic, somehow you get the impression that it belongs maybe in a century ago. But the fact is, those we meet with children, those we might have taught and would not boast about it, I have seen the greater problems of children who do not have perfect families, than those children who have perfect families. And I don't want to idealize classical families because they're facing a lot of problems, as has already been said. Nevertheless, children need both sexes to develop as normally as possible. Perhaps, as I said before, I would mention at least one thing that I would like to mention if I could somehow be included in the report. The matter is of course very controversial, it is a problem of abortion in Slovenia. I don't want to moralise, but I'm simply asking myself from the point of view of the member of this national body, the national body, what we do to make less of these, I'm going to say, actions take place in front of our eyes, I can literally say that. What can be done here preventively more, what can be done when the problem is already here? We know that some countries in Europe have developed systems of dialogue, I will not say convincings, but I certainly think, not only in terms of the demographic picture, but also in terms of the mentality that we communicate, given our mentality, which is communicated to children by the elderly. We have here a whole generation of kids who realize they've been lucky they haven't been evicted. I'm saying this as a fact, and I don't know how these kids are going to think when we're old, when we're pretty much out of this society. It would seem quite normal for us to think in the same way that our generation thinks about those kids who just come, but they're kind of superfluous. I think that we should at least do something more here to introduce some institute of conversation with those who are in a dilemma, with those women or couples who are in a dilemma and try to resolve some situation in a more positive way than to automatically dump a child. I think it's a shame. On the one hand, many couples are waiting for children, why not get a Slovenian child, and on the other hand, no one will convince me that this does not bring a lot of life trauma to people, who just float away for such or other reasons. I've heard it on my own a number of times. People who told me I'm sorry I haven't got one yet. And I think it's a shame, because Slovenia still prevails, on average I say, a relatively high standard for a child more in the family. Of course, I do not want to open this issue from the point of view of rights, but mainly from the point of view of prevention of what we can do as a positive gesture. I have another question that is being raised, which is also mentioned in this report, which I think is also a positive step and would be valid, and it would also be appropriate to continue this thinking. It's freedom of conscience. We have somehow inherited the thought that this religious dimension of man is a private matter. And that's what we're pulling forward on behalf of the formal separation of the church from the state. Well, that's true, as long as one right starts to apply to another's right, they're certainly becoming boundaries. However, when a child - I will give an example again - who believes, whatever anyone looks at it, must not express religious feelings, in the most basic form, in school or in society. Then I raise a schizophrenic person in some way, and we do not, in my opinion, contribute to one general health in society, and it seems to me that this rumor is a violation of freedom, someone who does not believe that it is violated by the fact that someone may in some way inexorably express his or her religious dimension, that he or she still remains here, in fact, a violated right to express his or her religious dimension. And here we read about the problems with the granting of permits in the implementation of confessional education in public primary schools. Although I do not know the statistics, I know that in rural areas a large majority of children are going to a religious school and it seems absolutely abnormal for these children, when school is over, not to be allowed to engage in peaceful religious activities that teach children something positive, something ethical and something positive for this society in those areas for which we all pay at our tax costs, including contributions. It seems to me that this remains in society still some kind of taboo topic, some border has stood up and that is not really what we're talking about. If you're talking about it, clearly, you're being attacked, but the media here don't have the courage to explore this issue statistically, and also a little more professionally. And even some comparison with other countries here would not hurt. Perhaps then this tension, which occurs when we begin to talk about this confessional dimension of man, would normalize with us. I would very much like that, because I don't think it helps to do good, not to do good, or to each other. Above all, I don't think it helps good children who are raised in this religious context because they are forced automatically at home like that and at school like that. This duality, which we somehow force, is not good. Of course, right now I'm not talking about how we should express this in some pervasive way, but those non-forced gestures that might help a person do so, and I think it would be good if our society opened up so much. There's no good thesis "If I don't have something, you shouldn't have one." It could be concluded that no system and no legislation can replace any personal integrity or personal ethics. And so I would say in general that when a discussion in Slovenia touches on these religious dimensions again, but now it doesn't matter which religion, in fact, this discussion does not help to create a possible one atmosphere or environment that prevents human rights violations. I think we are, to the greatest extent, ourselves, the source of the breach ourselves and our loved ones. Therefore, it seems to me that, perhaps just as thinking that, in this direction, it would be good for all of us to think about, and those little extraordinary phenomena in our society, which in our detriment distinguishes us from other average countries, both in Europe and in the world, we are trying to talk about them in a way, even in a public way, more relaxed. In addition, some groups, human rights groups, have been mentioned earlier. Well, I can agree that some groups of people, minorities, may also be exposed here, which is a hit theme in Slovenia and so on. That's right, it's exposed. However, it cannot be exposed to the harm of a wider problem in Slovenia. By the way, I can say as far as the system is concerned; before that, a lot of criticism has also been expressed on the judicial system. I still think that in the given circumstances, when we know that there is no way to change the courts and all the proceedings overnight, I still think that the Minister of Justice has only made a few moves here and has approached people, and is trying to speed up these proceedings. But is there also, of course, a question that everyone can deal with together - where are the reasons why only Slovenians serve so many courts? Surely there is one reason that the government, not the courts, not the ministry or anyone, cannot systematically influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u51	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u52	Honourable Deputy Guardian, Honourable Representatives of the Government, Honourable Vice-President, Members and Members. When I read the report, I realized that, while it is critical, it is detailed, but I admit that it is good. I was surprised to see Mr Hanžk, the Ombudsman's work, at times his public reactions to some of the problems at that time were often viewed as exaggerated and unbalanced. I am pleased, however, that he himself assessed in the report that the situation of human rights violations in our society is gradually improving. In every way and with all my heart, I support the efforts and activities of the Ombudsman, condemning any political or other influence on the operation. I also expect it to come forward even when an institution is unforgivably and unjustifiably attacked, or when an institution has acted unlawfully or unethically, but because it is political on the other hand, it is either tolerated or it is boundlessly attacked. Human rights are also, in my opinion, those rights that we must cherish and pursue for them. It is particularly important that we strive for human rights and protect them especially in those who are difficult or who cannot guarantee them themselves or are more sensitive. These are mainly children, elderly, patients, people with disabilities, as well as all those who find themselves on the side of society for such or other reasons. Since I am running out of time, I will only say this, I also support the recommendations which are an integral part of the report drawn up by the Commission on Petitions, as well as the Ombudsman's remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Member Mirani to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Guardian of Human Rights, colleague and colleague! The correct conduct of the National Assembly certainly implies a serious consideration of the Ombudsman's report, which we have been doing more and more each year, but this is hardly the first step. It would be even more important that the fundamental warnings expressed by the Ombudsman in his report be included in our views and that we should not include them only if we have valid reasons for which the Government also warns us, or that something is not technically possible or that it is arranged or that it sees problems in a different way, but not through political voting, which unfortunately we are still doing often. And third, which shows to the best of our attitude towards respect for the Ombudsman's institution, is that our recommendations alone, and in particular the Government through our activities, are implemented as soon as possible. If we do not do so, then it is only year after year that we repeat the same conclusions, not much in relation to the guardian, but even less until our own conduct. It is good that we have also recently made assessments of how many recommendations the National Assembly has adopted have been implemented. In this respect, however, we may not yet be very happy and fully satisfied. A good half, maybe. A bad half, not a bad half. I think it could be better. And now for the work that I think is most important. This is for these recommendations that have been adopted and for those that have been further proposed by our Group of Members. I'll limit myself to a few questions. I'm not saying they're the only ones that matter, but I think they are. The first is the recommendation under point 18, mainly related to the material injuries of World War II. I would like to point out that, not only we, but also in the Group of Social Democrats, we are in constant contact with them and that it is really a group of citizens and citizens, we are being judged, approx. 150 grand, which we're all talking about, nobody does anything to solve the problem. That word is hard, nothing, but not for a solution. We're all in the middle of this. But the solution is far away. Even in international contacts, there has been no such thing as domestic activity. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we will also have the opportunity in the short term to discuss this in the framework of the law on the completion of the law on the maintenance of assets, if we wish, and that our relationship or closer to the Government will then be shown, in order to define ourselves in the report of the Interdepartmental Group, which has been in place for more than two years. And in this report there are grounds for making decisions, I will not say everything, but many do, but the government does not put it on the agenda and decide to do so. I think that's one thing to point out. Secondly, in point 20, where you talk about housing or where you talk about housing. Over 2,300 tenants in denationalised apartments, between 150 and 200 housewives in the same apartments do not have an equal status under the housing law. I do not say that it is not being solved, but it is now being resolved for 15, 16 years, and we believe that the denationalisation and implementation of the law must be accelerated at this point. I think that's bad and that we should speed up our activities on this. The third is point 21 which speaks of pension and disability insurance. Important, right, with one delivery that should be taken into account. If we conclude the same agreements as we have already concluded with Croatia, I do not think we will solve the problem with Bosnia, but we will solve it in a smaller part. It is unrealistic to expect that pensions that have been made in the former common country are regulated in the same way as pensions that have been earned, say, in Germany or anywhere else. Because there are also different social opportunities in these countries. And it happens to us that we conclude an agreement that is amended and that a pensioner gets two-thirds of the working time in Slovenia of two-thirds of Slovenian pensions and for a third of the Bosnian pension, I simplify and speak domestically. That's formally correct. However, in substance it means that at least half or more of the income in the part of how much the pension from the former second republic is less and that it is materially affected without being responsible for anything. That's the kind of agreement we have. If the next one, which is still missing with Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro will be concluded on the same principles, then we will have a partial solution, and these groups of people will still be disadvantaged and in an unequal position. In short, I would like to speak to you about the three conclusions that we are proposing further. The first refers to point 16.a, i.e. the arrangement of the situation deleted. We simply believe that it would be right, at least, to impose this relationship to the Constitutional Court in the National Assembly, to point out that it is right for the Constitutional Court to enforce its decision. How are we going to enforce it, whether we have each of our own representations, even possible, but that we simply ignore the Constitutional Court's decision so far as to speak of the constitutional law that we all have and that we know it does not implement the Constitutional Court's decision, but changes it and ignores it, that is, for example, to know too much about the relationship between these two institutions. Secondly, point 18.a, I am very much in favour of the proposal to make it definitive, but we have been promised that it has been definitive several times already, to settle the issue of paying contributions for working time. And it really doesn't happen anymore that when someone leaves for retirement they find that, while they've been working, they don't have recorded his working time and paid contributions for a shorter or longer period of his working time for unknown reasons, but the underlying reason is known. His employer didn't pay his contributions. The employee, the inspection and others didn't find out in time. And it's hard to find out a lot of times. This should really be arranged in such a way that such cases would no longer take place. The latter is point 31a, which refers to the question of criteria for determining or securing the threshold of poverty. We have been in the last days, especially because of the high inflation that has occurred in the country in the last half of the year, especially because this inflation is disproportionate and especially faster than the general rate of inflation, rising the prices of living needs, food prices and the like, has come to the realization that everything that is regulated in our system is probably not good. I hope that we will now be recognised by the Government that our warnings under the Social Transfers Act have been justified and that the promises made by the Government that this law will have no impact on the standards of people and those who receive social transfers that these promises were not accurate. It may indeed be captured under other assumptions, ahead of the assumption of lower inflation, but even if it were less inflation, the consequences would only be less painful. Now they are, really painful for a group of people who receive the lowest of these benefits, and I think that something should be done here, and that it would be necessary, not just Please? [[...]] I was thinking maybe you'd like Mr. Sok to wait a while. It is necessary not only to determine the appropriateness of all the rules, but also to finally harmonise the law that is already proposed and which we hope the Government has agreed around it, but not that this is one of the proposals that DeSUS will table and you will vote against in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Evro Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. We therefore have before us the twelfth periodic report of the Ombudsman. This is also the final report by the former guardian, Mr Hanžk. Of course, within the report there is a cross-section of human rights, and there are also some complaints from citizens from different areas. At the end, however, the Ombudsman also cites some isolated cases, but unfortunately some he does not wish to mention. They're not written here, even though the guard's office has been visited several times by urgent items, but they're not written in here. That's not what I'm saying. I have recently met myself with a gentleman who has repeatedly intervened against the Ombudsman's institution in relation to the treatment of believing and violated rights with regard to the infringement of religious feelings, and Mr Hanžek, as it were said, has only been misplaced, and an official at the Ombudsman's office has even told this gentleman that the believers are so many that they can defend themselves. If it's not a big arrogance without a case, then I don't know what it is. In this case, it is no wonder that this report repeatedly repeats almost one and the same subject; I believe that this will not be the case with the new guardian. Thus we are witnessing in this report Roma issues, of course related to the Strojan family, and deleted, hate speech, we are also talking about restricting media freedom or pressure on journalists, which today seem to indicate that Slovenia is covered in institutions abroad, not in any way, but in institutions or in those highest states, presidents of countries, presidents of governments and parliaments. Social Democrats, of course, can laugh and smile, you know it best. The report says that there is always a friction between the executive branch of authorities and journalists because of the policy’s desire to submit to the media. He says that the press or journalists should be put under pressure after him, but Mr Hanžek does not mention any particular case. How, then, should we take these findings with all seriousness and credibility? The report also states that there are attempts to prevent control by abolishing the anti-corruption commission, which is then to be replaced by a commission in the National Assembly. Of course, this perception of reality is difficult to understand if we know that the anti-corruption commission in this country is headed by Mr Drago Kos, who has clearly come to this function because of some political services in recent years. Today, this Mr Kos is particularly up to date in the case of journalist Ranc, who was illegally listening to him, and only after eight years has this been proved in favour of journalist Ranc in court. In short, in this country, such matters, including anti-corruption matters, are dealt with by a person who clearly does not respect the right to privacy. It does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and obviously does not respect the integrity of the individual. And here I seriously ask or seriously ask you, Madam Guardian, how is it that you have not responded to this judgment of the court - that I will not do injustice to you, perhaps you will - because there has certainly been an intervention in the privacy of the journalist. But Mr. Kos went on these charges. He says he does not feel responsible for such actions, but he even said that, unless we publicly stop talking about his controversial work, which in my opinion proved unethical in this case, and perhaps Mr Kos should also consider any derogation from this position, he said he would put some burdensome things out for the SDS. Thus, there are serious threats on the part of Mr Kos in this country. And since Mr Kos was, if I am not mistaken, the head of the criminal service and probably well knows her methods of action, of course I would not be surprised if there were any further things that would not be real, but perhaps planted. So much for these threats by Mr. Kos. And here you are, Madam Guardian, and I also ask if you will be able to answer me in the end. Do you normally feel that people in such functions are threatening people who warn that a matter has been wrongly done or that they are also alerting them to their actions, given that Mr. Kos points out the wrong conduct of others? But to get back to the starting point. There were also quite a few problems with Mr Hanzko, because in my opinion he did not treat all groups or all people the same way as is shown through this last report. He has devoted much more attention to some. It seems to me that he is an individual, in which case I will say - an ordinary person, sometimes he has forgotten, but he has had an extremely long time for so-called marginal groups. However, if someone here in this National Assembly did not misinterpret me, of course it is right to warn that some rights have been violated for the Roma, who have been erased, who have been same-sexed - certainly. That's the right thing to do. However, I think that with at least the same intensity, he should also address the problems of those who may not have been so close to him or so distinctly at heart. However, here we see, with a new guardian, a concrete positive movement, a shift for the better. From her opening remarks, she sees that she will also work for other people, for other groups. And so it is, for the guardian is the one who must be open to all men, and not just some. The report reopens the issue of Roma. To this end, the government has taken important and important steps forward, of course there will be a lot more to be done in this area, but the Law on the Roma Community has been adopted, which in a comprehensive way governs this area and has also involved NGOs and representatives of the Roma communities in the formation of this law. In this regard, things are certainly going in a positive direction and, of course, I think it is so much more incomprehensible that planned abroad creates some impression that we have camps for Roma in Slovenia or that we are going to some kind of ghettoisation. I agree, however, that there is no doubt that more attention should be paid to the Roma education area, because only education and a modified way of doing so can certainly contribute to greater socialisation of the Roma. At the end, however, I would like to touch on another area that the Ombudsman also mentions in his report, namely social violence and domestic violence. Mr Hanžek says that too little has been done in this area, of course we all agree that violence is too much, that we should find some mechanisms to punish them, and it is therefore commendable that next month in the National Assembly we will consider the draft law on the prevention of domestic violence. It will, in my view, also increase the role of social security centres, in the first place, we will get a law that I think will help to make some things happen in this area as well. I will support all the recommendations, including some amendments of the Social Democrats, which I believe are good and can help improve the human rights situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say that I have indeed been, not to say very enthusiastic, but with curiosity I have listened to some not exciting but inspired expositions of my fellow Members before me. But I'm worried about that because a lot of the words that have been said point to a double morale. There's something about what you've said, respectable colleagues and colleagues, and there's something about what's reflected in what you've done. And it saddens me here. It saddens me here that you don't follow your big, beautiful words. As far as the Ombudsman's report is concerned, I also find a number of shortcomings, but I believe that concrete cases or files are much more extensive than those covered in the report. That's why I'm not going to touch the individual matters that are described, but I'm going to talk in general. I am concerned that some people say that the problem is pedophilia; in this context, I regret that the Ombudsman does not include it in his report. Even more, in the part where he touches violence against children, he does not mention sexual violence as if it were not in our society. Yes, it is! Sexual violence is a crazy big problem. The new Ombudsman is also aware of this. When you say paedophilia is a problem of developed societies. Not just the problem of developed societies, respected colleagues and colleagues! You know, if that were true, then I would very much like to hear a real answer - why then so much sexual violence, paedophilia in a total institution called the church, and I didn't want to mention it, not at all, but I was set up on this. I was. Because even in the report, if I take it into my hands, during constitutional rights, when the problem or direction of the Government is exposed - the Government should, in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, provide programmes for the awareness or awareness of human rights, a non-governmental organisation in general. But do you know what the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this direction of the Ombudsman is? The government answers as if in our country only human rights have been violated, which is called "religious freedom". This is what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is talking about in response to human rights in our country in general. But that's unfair! And then it's so unfair that some people talk about some morality. You know, human rights are much more violated in all other areas. In every other area. That's what I hope to say from this place. Why doesn't anyone ask what's wrong with kids? There is also a double morality in some of the fellow Members sitting on that side. When a colleague is in front of me, I think the representative of New Slovenia said that no institution can replace personal ethics. Yeah, in that respect, I 100% agree with him. No institution can replace the personal ethics of an individual. And, in this context; and then I'll stop talking about these things; I'll just remember, I'll just remember, and I believe that you did, or that a lot of people saw yesterday's BBC broadcast on TV. It's a real show. Cardinal Ratzinger has cared for personal ethics or human rights for 20 years with that secret decree, a secret decree that the sexual abuse of children had to be kept silent and that man is today a pope. That's moral ethics. I will continue and move on to another area, an area of social concern which, in my opinion, is not sufficiently covered in the report itself. I am afraid that even government measures, we have answers, and this is also pointed out by the Ombudsman, we have the responses of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which refers to social measures, the positive effects of social measures in our country. But you know what the positive effect of the social measures taken by this Government is? The Social Protection Act, which established a certain degree of censorship. EUR 61, according to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, is expected to be sufficient for the child's own survival. Why the government didn't respond to the Ombudsman's warnings, I'll say, with a real answer, the answer to everyday life. Why the government simply did not say that it is possible to listen to the warnings of 12% of people, those living below the poverty threshold, or an additional 40% of people who are, I will say, on the minimum personal income. Some say that there is a lot of schizophrenia, depression and so forth in our country, that the situation is also responsible for this, which says that there are increasing numbers of single - parent families. But this means that we are at a point today when we are making differences between a single parent’s family and the so - called perfect family. But he also pointed out to the Ombudsman that single - parent families are economically disadvantaged families. But it's clearly not the government's representatives and the government coalition's concern. At least on the basis of the response given by the Government to this warning, I do not understand that this would be a problem for the government and that the government, on the basis of this warning, is prepared in our society to take some positive measures in the field of legislation. And that I may also turn to the new Ombudsman, I will say that, at least from her opening arguments or words, I have understood that politics is indeed going to change, in particular I will go to children's rights. The policy of this government, these countries in the field of children's rights. But you know, I listened to the Ombudsman's response on a television show days ago, for example, according to my assessment of a very obvious violation of children's rights, it was the case in the village of Zden. At that time, the deputy guardian said, in public, that since it was young children, it was not even necessary for children to express their views. It is said that the official national institution takes into account Slovenian legislation and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, in any event having the right to express its opinion. No, that's the ignored official institute, that's what the Deputy Guardian of Human Rights said with a smile on his face. And the guardian found that there was no violation by the official state institution. I wonder whose side we have a guardian, the guardian of human rights. That's why, like someone, I think by the SLS, he said to me, so that the guardian, when the attacked institution, would stand on the side of the institution and defend it or the guardian would defend an individual, a human, a child. That is also why I say to my fellow Members that it is necessary to establish an office of children's rights in our country. And if you have said, Madam Guardian, that in principle you are opposed to this solution, it will be necessary to convince you that you will begin to think differently. But you know how much time we spend in the Slovenian National Party alone to show what is the difference between human rights and children's rights. If that were not the case, if we did not need children's rights, then I simply do not know why we have a Convention on the Rights of the Child if we already have a Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u59	Thank you very much. To the replica or to the debate? Discuss. Here you go. In doing so, allow me to ask you to stand, as do the other Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u60	All I want to do here is put a replica of this performance. I am afraid that the Member State has been misled by reporting to the media on this matter, and also by reporting to the Ombudsman I will say manipulatively. And I believe it was as understanding as you presented it. Mr Dolčič's statement was taken out of the context and the entire press conference, which was organised with us, is accessible, audio and can be sure of what Mr Dolčič said. In fact, I reacted immediately. What the Civil Initiative says about being invited is a lie. I can tell. You can check all the mail and see that there were no such initiatives and invitations. As far as the case is concerned, of course, because of data protection, because all procedures with the guardian are confidential in nature, I cannot tell you exactly what was going on. But my associates have checked the status of all the government institutions involved. For it is only over these and the guardian of control. And what we've found is not what the media are reporting, and we've made clear how and what we've found. In short, Mr Dolčič has repeatedly quoted the question whether we have spoken to the child, replied that we as the guardian did not speak to the children, we did not want to impose any additional burden on them by visiting them, by getting to know the new persons, because the Ombudsman in the process cannot and must not replace the work of the professional institutions. Just to go and see how this person really is or is with these children, we cannot abuse the child further. So I invite everyone who is interested in this matter to listen to a press conference or to call me personally, ask me and I will be happy to reply to all the details. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. But to my word I invite Ambassador Majdo Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, Madam Ombudsman with fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The Institute of the Ombudsman understands the protection of every individual, every human being and is right, we accept it with all due care and help to improve the system in this way, as the guardian in her report also tries to improve by warning and pointing out weaknesses in society and the state of things. Members need to ask themselves and also know how they live, how citizens and citizens feel, and in doing so we have a duty to warn the Government that it also listens to the report with all its commitment to improve and correct irregularities. For with its power, the country is hard to detect, or even detects, problems, but only warnings from others. The problems that arise as warnings through annual recommendations to the National Assembly are roughly the same year-on-year, and this year's report mainly chooses problems from previous years. Some areas are being resolved faster, some will be accompanying us for a number of years. I would limit myself to two, three areas. I am pleased that in the area of denationalisation, the number of outstanding cases in administrative units has moved significantly since the last report, from 1397 to 936, so that the total number of cases resolved is already 96%. That's a nice success, and I think we can keep it that way. The Ombudsman also notes in the 2006 Annual Report that the procedures in this area are in the final stage. There is still a great problem with judicial backlogs, but I must say that there has been a great deal of movement, action and improvement in this mandate. However, there will certainly be a lot of work to be done. Great concern is also expressed in the area of social discrimination, which has its face in poverty, homelessness, and all the problems that stem from it. The country's social policy is also reflected in its attitude towards the elderly, the disabled, the sick, the women with small children, the Roma and so on. Among the biggest problems is still the housing problem. It is difficult to reach apartments because of very high prices, and families and individuals who fall out of state aid prices because of different circumstances. They are often very poor, but their situation is not measurable. The immediate consequences of poverty are hunger, homelessness, and lack of basic goods, leading to social exclusion, increased morbidity and increased mortality. The first victim of poverty is children who are robbed not only of toys, holidays, clothes, but also of a healthy way of life in the safe protection of the family. Financial distress in families often also leads to increased violence and alcohol abuse. But it would be wrong to create only a black picture. For these days we can read in many places that every eighth Slovenian lives in misery. It would not be right to manipulate and induce the wrong idea to wake up in the morning at the greeting of "good morning, poverty", as it had happened a long time ago. The government has already done a number of things in this area in its mandate. I will not list all the measures, there have been many, but I think they will still have to be implemented. It seems to me that the country should cut down more and more widely in order to promote the network cooperation of all those who can do anything in this area, because state governance is too often unsettled and bureaucratic. In any case, I believe that it is necessary to increase the involvement of all government institutions, to create a better climate of solidarity and interdependence, and to have an appropriate relationship with so-called parties, managers' buy-ins and other controversial problems that arise in this area. I accept and support the Ombudsman's 2006 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Ambassador Zupan. But to my word I invite the Ambassador Dusan Kumra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear guardian with co-workers, distinguished representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to express my opinion and position, although some of you, especially at the beginning of today's debate, swore that the way of debate today is much different than it was in the past, but I still do not agree in the way of discussion and dialogue when you first put down a verbal slap or earring, and then flatter yourself as long as this pain in the one you've given him stops this verbal earring and you even expect him to commend you. This is just a little too much, and that is why I'm going to be just two concrete cases - the ones you talked about about the pressures and threats. In the past or this week, we had twice the opportunity. We had an opportunity for two hours in this National Assembly to listen when the President of the Government, in his own, inherent way of expressing himself, of course threatened journalists and opposition, and we gave him a legitimate confidence, and we solved this. Of course, there's another threat and pressure that got in yesterday. On the pressure and threat of a Member of the largest parliamentary party - SDS, Mr Grims, was suspended yesterday from the post of editor of the Study at the 17th journalist Sandi Frelih. These are specific cases that are now taking place, so that we do not need to talk about cases again. It can, because they're recorded, repeat, but let's give it to the current ones that are happening. If it threatens, as has been said before, Mr Kos, as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, this National Assembly elects this President anti-corruption; please, Members, if you consider these to be valid enough reasons - make a proposal and we will discuss this, of course, to resolve these anti-corruption functions of the Kosovo Commission, etc., etc., not to mention. My debate today, on this report, will not touch on the concrete cases and repetitions recorded in this Green Paper, but I would like, also with your help, to come up with two basic answers to the questions I will raise. That is, the fundamental question that, in discussions like today, is itself looking for the answer - why do we even have a guardian or a guardian of human rights, why do we need one if we have all the other institutions and bodies in the system? I think, and this is my opinion that, above all, because the Ombudsman is one of the most important intermediate articles between citizens and citizens who are in such or different difficulties, even when injustices occur to them, to alert the State, state authorities and its institutions, particularly the institutions of the government which can, to a large extent, help these people and help them to get out of these problems. In my opinion, this is the most important task of the Ombudsman and the village set of these problems, the issues, the injustices that are happening to people are covered, I am not saying that this is all that is covered in this Green Paper. That is why the report and all its recommendations must be taken very seriously and with a great deal of sense of equality and justice, both between citizens and on the relationship or communication and resolution of these problems between the citizen and the State or its institutions. So, as has already been said today, human rights are never, at no point, definitively and forever. And the guardian's task and his or her guardian's task and her co-workers are to record and warn the competent authorities in the country that this finality is closer than far away. Our task in this National Assembly of Members is to take them into account when we adopt the legal basis, when we create conditions and conditions for more or less injustices or other problems for people. And this is related to another problem that I would like to draw attention to, also in view of yesterday's debate, when we talked about asylum, is our opinion, our view, the right Member and Members sitting in this highest legislative body, in the social field, it is said, is extremely sensitive. It is our relationship to the status of these people who are in such or other problems that they are living, as has been said many times, today it has been said, on the brink of survival, whether it is employees who receive poor wages, let it be those who do not have a job, let it be those who receive social assistance, let it be deleted, let it be asylum-seekers, etc., etc., that I do not list further. And, of course, between us, Members and Members of the National Assembly, which we deserve fairly much and do not have any problems. And it comes to me when we discuss these things, this mutual relationship, this feeling and I have several times the feeling that it is difficult to understand what it means to survive one citizen, citizens of Slovenia with 200, 300 euros a month. I have the feeling that we are too few times turning into their skin when we are not only discussing, we are also taking, I will once again stress the important legislative decisions that create conditions and conditions so that their problems and the injustices they face are less present. Most of the time, we are working the opposite way, we are going down, and so we went down yesterday, on the slippery background of politicization, non-productive dialogue and so on. But we, Members and Members of Parliament, can have a powerful influence on the fact that something more, speaking of this social status, has moved people from those who are richer to those who have less under the thumb. We set the rules of the game and the conditions as a legislative body. Therefore, people’s problems depend to a large extent on what we do in this National Assembly. Therefore, once again, I support the report, as well as all the recommendations attached to the report, and I hope that there are also some suggestions from today's broad debate - judicial backlogs, police conduct, domestic violence, particularly violence against children. And I just want to add here, even in the National Assembly, not to manipulate children. My children, because they are not religiously oriented, are therefore not schizophrenic. They are faithful, they believe, sadly, in their own self and abilities, but allow and let them also have this inherent faith. And that's why they're not schizophrenic, as was said in the debate today. Indeed, these are all subjects and areas in which human rights violations persist. Therefore, these are areas that must be a priority for all other authorities and institutions in the country that can reduce these negative trends. So if it is possible to erase a lot of things on paper and in various records, such or other, problems, problems and injustices that happen to people, it is not possible to erase them with anything. But they can also be set aside and lightened by our activity, including our sober view of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you. I'm supposed to give the word to Dr. Slavko Gabru, but he's not in the hall. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I don't have much time, a little more than a minute. So, indeed, the Ombudsman did not process the areas of current inflation in this report, and then Mr Potrč added this, so now, I think, this report is comprehensive. I'm only gonna point out two things. I think that after several years the Ombudsman's comments this time have only added something to the issue, namely, I will just read it. He wrote: "In several cases we had to remind the initiators of the importance of the protection of religious freedom, we were reminded of the insults of religious sentiments with media publications, anti-Semitic graffiti and expressions of hostility in electronic media," and then he said in his round: "including against Catholics." If against any, it is mainly propaganda against Catholics in this country. Don't miss the point, don't miss the session to not listen to it, and my speaker has abused it and used it to attack in this direction, but there is also a SNS lady who can't even pronounce the name of the current pope, but knows what he wrote and knows what segment the current pope made a mistake on. Well, at least learn how to spell it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I believe that, my dear fellow Sok, you have come to understand the essence that I wanted to expose. The point is that sexual abuse of children occurs in all segments, even in total institutions such as the church, no doubt. And as long as we all close our eyes together, as long as our society applies a double rule, for state institutions, for the country something, for the church and for the church institutions something, for as long as sex, for the sexual violence of the taboo, and this in 2007 is no longer acceptable. The Ombudsman also points to this. And I am convinced that next year, when we consider the new report, there will be more such problems in this report or that this area, which it deserves, deserves a special chapter in order to receive it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you for your word and also a nice greeting to everyone. I would like to talk about chapter 2.9 - housing, where the Ombudsman's report makes it very clear that it is in the area of dealing with young families and the materially weak that does not solve housing problems, and this has somehow tried to deny the Ministry of the Environment and Space responsible for this area, with indications that, say, tenants in the most difficult material circumstances can receive subsidies up to 80% of the rent. Indeed, it can, but the fact is that in Slovenia there are very few municipalities that are competent to decide in accordance with the housing law or decide to subsidise these rents or not, especially in non-profit apartments, this is the most open issue. And I think that such an answer is not adequate, although it may be something that gives an opportunity, and, of course, I would also expect the Government to or at least warn the municipalities that it is necessary to take a more active approach to subsidising rents because the situation of the socially weak is particularly difficult in apartments where they pay profitable rents. However, the number of municipalities, I stress, is very small, which have decided to subsidise rents in profitable apartments. So I would like to point out to the government that they are also analysing this area, including this problem, and they are also trying to take this fact into account in the further amendment of the housing law and to give a more appropriate response, which will be significantly closer to both young people and the socially weak families. In addition, it is stated that the National Housing Scheme Act has introduced an irreversible subsidy for young families who, by purchasing or building their dwellings, for the first time solve their housing issue, is good to hear and well written down, but the fact is that with these subsidies we reach all possible one or two square metres of residential area, and unfortunately nothing more. On this occasion, I would also like to draw attention to this fact, which will probably be reflected in the next report of the Ombudsman in the way that the number of those who wanted to solve the housing problem would not be able to resolve it definitively, or to save it, but because of the credits they have paid and the rising inflation and also because the government has proposed, above all, a tax reform to abolish 6% of the income relief, it has put some 100,000 families in a very precarious position, because they are actually staying overnight without the relief they were counting on even when they hired this loan. And if we actually add to this the fact that we have very high inflation in Slovenia and that banks will certainly react to this inflation and when we find that wages do not follow this inflation, the situation in this area will be much more serious tomorrow than it is today. Therefore, at the same time, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, when we have not yet adopted the 2008 and 2009 budget, that the Government listens to these warnings from the Ombudsman and also to the cruel fact that inflation is increasing and that this will be known in particular by those who have rented loans and will have to repay them, and this will be much more difficult because the interest banks will also increase. We also have an opportunity this year to respond to this particular problem, and I hope that we will also be able to address these days, especially on Saturday, when the Committee on Finance will consider the concrete proposals proposed by the Social Democrats to resolve this problem, as we are talking about the ten million euro we want to devote to this problem to make sure that the majority of Parliament will also listen to these problems and needs, and not least at the budget meetings we have on Monday and Tuesday. In short, some things can be resolved very quickly and we do not wait for it to be rewritten that these warnings by the Ombudsman concerning young families and materially weak families are repeated year after year in a report. I think it would be right for us to make a serious incision in this area as well and begin to tackle this problem more seriously than has been solved so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Milenk Ziherl. He's not here. Member Petty Officer has the floor. He's not here. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. He's not here. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. She's not here. The word has magic. Andrey Bručan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very pleased, in fact, to welcome here today the new Ombudsman, colleague Chebašek Travnikovo. I think that the Ombudsman's institution is so important that today's debate on this 2006 report is all the more important in its presence. It is also a serious institution, one of the most serious in the country, that we must pay as much attention to it as possible and also respond to all the things that occur in these reports. Some of these have also appeared for the same thing in recent times. I wouldn't be talking about deleted today either. Here I fully agree with my colleague, the Black Man, who has dealt with this subject in some way before me. However, I would like to say a few words about civil society, which is supposed to be excluded in the negotiation of various laws and other acts that are being adopted. I must say that civil society is a welcome interlocutor in any adoption of legislation, but it must be borne in mind that this civil society is realistic in its proposals and that this civil society does not represent the interests of individual political groups, even sometimes with the same words and with the same sentences. I agree, however, that the role of civil society in countries where they have a longer-term democracy than we do is slightly different, and that is why their assessment is sometimes wrong on the part of our civil society. As far as human rights are concerned, I think it is one of the first rights that all people have, that we are informed of developments in truth, in truth and in a way that is not misleading. In recent times, we have been able to observe, as often as possible, such misleading information, comments on some things that, of course, do not have any connection with reality. This is one of the basic problems that the Ombudsman will also have to resolve or correct in the future, as is certainly the case now. It is the fact that every human being has the right to be informed of developments in a real way. Today there was also talk about health care. I have been here for many years to participate in the various processes that are taking place. We can see that in recent times or in the last two, three years, many things have changed for the better. This in this report, unfortunately, is not noticeable. Here is my comment on this report, which is fully acceptable, but precisely at this point, I could have a comment, in particular the comment that those things that have actually changed significantly in this area in recent years and have improved significantly have not been mentioned. Even talking about the Oncology Institute, which, thank God, this year the entire project has been realized, talks about waiting times that have been significantly reduced in this time period, in the last two, three years and also the accessibility to health services has improved significantly through efforts made at different levels and in different directions. I am pleased that the second report can already be significantly better in this area and, if it is taken into account, I am sure that it will be, the real situation as it is today. Today, I read in a newspaper to shorten waiting periods for magnetic resonance. There will probably be no special effort here, except for Ljubljana, because these have been very much reduced in the last three years, namely a reduction for multiple 3. This is from 12 months on average now at three to four months for the whole country, which is already comparable to other countries in Europe. I am sure that the report already for 2007 will be significantly better in some areas, which are still somehow assessed as inappropriate or not well done here. As far as legislation is concerned, three laws are mentioned. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u73	My friend Bručan, if you'll excuse me, please. The Secretary of State are you making fun of the National Assembly? Are you allowed to phone at government meetings? Please continue. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u74	You've interrupted my thought. In any case, there are three laws mentioned here, the Mental Health Act, the Patients' Rights Act and the Medical Act; one of them has already been passed, two are just before possible adoption. And it is this law that we have heard about today, the Law on Patient Rights, that is one of those laws that the Ombudsman is very much concerned with. There will have to be a clear decision here on some of the uncertainties or unresolved issues in the draft law. This bill has some solutions that can still be amended. Therefore, this time, this month, which is now being allocated, is welcome. However, better solutions must be found than those proposed. I think that it is in the area of advocates and the Ombudsman that some changes can be found mainly in the implementation of the proposed law, which will lead to less dependence on the currently ruling authority or coalition on the rights of the patient. And that, I think, is also the job of the Ombudsman in the future. It is true, however, that it is necessary to make it clear here that negotiations regarding the guardian of patients, the patient's rights have been going on for a long time and that there will be a very clear position to be put here by the Ombudsman, who has been told in our conversations in the past that the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman does not in fact support the newly established institution of the Ombudsman. And so it was when the Ombudsman was someone else. So I think these things need to be drawn quite clearly in the future, and when this is very clearly drawn, the decision will also be easier and faster. After all, the Ombudsman at national level is not an institution that apriori would reject, but we felt in the past, even when this report was written that such a solution was better, better and more acceptable. I hope that all these things will be resolved in a short time, so that procedures can be completed after this bill, including for the Mental Health Act, which I consider to be the same as the Ombudsman, that one of the most important laws, which has been several times just before implementation, is, in the final phase, at least in the mandate of this Government, at the latest when the law is to be adopted, still on the one hand, somehow supported. I hope that all these things will actually be resolved in a short time and that we will be able to have a report in this area, which will also be more positive than what it is now. And some of the things in this report, which are still marked as unresolved in 2006, have already been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you very much. But only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Today we record almost 10 years from the first reading of the Ombudsman's report, 1995. Rather, it took the Ombudsman two years to adopt and deal with his report. The then Ombudsman, Ivo Bizjak, presented his first report, 10 years ago, for 1995. There were no representatives of the Government in the Chamber, but there were five Members. Colleague Beblereva on behalf of the Home Committee and then late Member Delak on behalf of DeSUS, Jakič on LDS and colleague Ribičič and I on behalf of the then United List or today's Social Democrats. And when we adopted that first report of the Ombudsman, there were 48 Members and Members present in the Chamber, and of course it is understandable that all 48 supported this report. 42 Members and Members were missing. It was then, 10 years ago, that this meeting, when we discussed the Ombudsman's report, obstructed the opposition or, rather, part of the opposition. The then SDS and SKD. However, they boycotted the debate on this report because they wanted that day to be another session to address the proposal of the Resolution on the illegal functioning of the communist totalitarian regime and the proposal of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of the Communist Totalitarian Regime. This was the reason why the so-called right opposition, at the time, obstructed the first hearing of the Ombudsman's report. And since we have already seen this week how the Prime Minister of the Government here displayed newspaper articles for the speaker, and how colleague Grims showed an increased vote poster from before, then 11 years ago, in 1996, I, too, obtained a vote from that time, only 48 Members and Members, without the presence of the then MEPs and MEPs of the SKD and the SDS, only the government Members were present at that time and we as the opposition were present. And there's something else that's interesting. I also obtained a photocopy of the cover of the central Slovenian newspaper Delo, which dedicated three lines to this report on the first page and on the second page of 16 lines. This was the main consideration of this report at the time, and I am glad that it is different today. My colleague Jerovšek, I can say that, since then, Parliamentary parties in the National Assembly, only today's Social Democracy has taken this report seriously and prepared thoroughly for this discussion. You can read the magnetograms, these magnetograms are preserved and you can't tell us anything. And you prefer to consider so-called lustration legislation. So much for this 10-year-old hearing of the Ombudsman in the National Assembly. However, it is also 10 years after I became a member of the Commission for Petitions and then remained in it for two years. The first chairman of the Commission was Zoran Lesnik, Member of the DeSUS. And during that period, between 1996 and 2000, the Commission held 17 meetings. We discussed, in particular, the information that came to this committee, the content that people had sent to the National Assembly in distress. We also had, I would say, a politically sensitive topic, we also talked about the Roma, but there was never a discussion that escalated to such, I would say, excesses, as is the case during this term. I even remember that the chairman of these Commissions had even a cup of apples from his orchard on the table at the meeting room where we discussed this. The next commission was already more interesting. It was led by the opposition MP, Zoran Lesnik was a coalition MP at the time, DeSUS is so always in the government and the People's Party that there will be no mistake. Thus, during the 2000-2004 term, this commission was chaired by Mr Janez Drobnic, opposition Member. This committee has already held 29 meetings in this mandate. And it became somehow an instrument of opposition. In particular, he chose subjects with some sensitive feeling, which he then upgraded in the very part of the National Assembly. But we coalition Members, here was Christmas, then Merlo, Celigoj, we have practically always supported the conclusions proposed by the President of this Commission. And we've asked the government to do this, to change this law, etc. So, even though they were not the most friendly subjects to the coalition, we were very active in supporting the conclusions. But it was already a commission that was becoming an ever-increasing instrument of the opposition. Today, we have a commission with a slightly longer name, to this day human rights, and it is led by my esteemed colleague, mag. Majda Potter. And here we have already had 29 regular meetings, 10 emergency meetings, one public presentation of opinions, says one extremely large dynamic of work. But I cannot help but feel that, if this was a commission as an instrument of opposition, this commission has become an instrument of coalition Members in this committee today. The characteristic of work, at least in the last period, is that coalition Members begin to invite and demand that Members of the Social Democrats and Social Democrats be invited to hear this commission. Thus, we demand that they come, Comrade Rob, and colleague Weber, before and before this Inquisition commission or the Magic Commission, our Vice-President, Igor Luksic, also be brought by coalition members. And because you have abused this commission in my opinion, and it is difficult for you to return without wounds from these meetings, because by your majority you accept all conclusions, so it would be best if you applied that water test centuries ago, namely, the witch's test of innocence, and how it was when a witch was accused and then tried whether she was guilty or innocent. And they threw it in the water. If she sank and drowned, it was evidence that she was innocent, but if she swam out, it was evidence that she was guilty and burned on the pile. Dear colleagues, I suggest that those of you who are members of this Commission for Petitions, if not already by Janez Drobník, at least or if not by Zoran Lešnik, at least by Janez Drobník, and I think that we should somehow normalize the work of this Commission in order to really deal with human rights, but not that it is becoming an ever-increasing and ever-increasing instrument of the coalition and where, as a rule, MEPs and civil servants of the Social Democrats will have to turn to the guardian of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I didn't understand. Who's calling? I don't think you were appointed. You were? Then I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention enough. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u78	For a moment, I would like to say to my colleague Bevko that we seem to have a very strange understanding of democracy in this house. Everything that we are doing by Members of the so-called ruling coalition, as you call us, and on this behalf I have also recognized myself, we are working on the basis of the Rules of Procedure which you have adopted in the previous term. And the recommendations we have today on the table were adopted unanimously by 95%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. A fellow Member, Mr Jerovšek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Because I'm running out of time to get right to the point. I will not talk about the report, because it has been found to be the same, but one part, this true ethics of the public word has been mentioned today and there is also a chapter on communication with the public and that the Ombudsman is acting proactively. And since authority and moral authority are supposed to be the guardian, I wonder why I did not see the guardian respond to some moral, highly controversial statements in the past. One was staged on purpose a few days before the elections. At the presentation of a book, Mrs Směmka Hribar stated that arms trade has the same negative moral weight as post-war killings. It's a horribly moral and valuable thesis, and I didn't see anyone respond. The second is published in today’s Work. Mr. Kos says, "I don't feel morally responsible for restricting press freedom, listening in, monitoring journalists." This is where I hope you respond. Because if this does not happen, then I myself will begin to doubt what this means to appear at a press conference together with an MP from the Zares Group, LDS, when she presents the Law on Endurance and despite the fact that Shirca's colleague is known for her impatience, but she thinks that others are impatient. I must say, the former extremely good Member has repeatedly sailed for the handiworker or considered him strictly a handiworker and insulted him. And these insults and impatient speeches from her mouth could say many things. But these two cases, which I have cited, have to be answered by the hostile speech that concerns the entire Slovenian society. I just can't think that someone who wants to be moral authority wouldn't want to do that, and I hope you'll respond to your grades here today before this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. To the word of Ambassador Ljubo Germić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Lady Guardian with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first to express my appreciation for the report prepared and the content resulting from it. In doing so, it means somehow upgrading the previous reports and the performance of the Ombudsman's work over the last period. Of course, such a report means to us, in fact, a reflection of whether we are successful in enacting and enforcing laws within the framework of national authorities in terms of the exercise of human rights. I would touch only one content, which you refer to as a problem in your report, but which is reflected in the way the government works, in various ministries, and in some less. I will talk about the possibility of civil society involvement in the adoption of legislation. I will point out that in the government's opinion, given this warning, the government itself recognises that there are great differences between individual ministries. I will talk about whether certain ministries respect more or less the rules of procedure adopted by the Government in this context and some ministries do not do so anymore or less. This is also reflected in the response to your report in the Government's opinion, because it is very interesting that in the field of the Ministry of Health you find that a number of initiatives that you have addressed to the Ministry of Health have actually had no response. So that you are currently alerted in individual cases, the Ministry of Health, that of course there are burning problems, but more or less it is in your report to observe that there were no responses from the Ministry of Health. At the same time, in the opinion of the Government, it is very interesting to say that individual departments somehow with arrogance with some sense of interference with their steady work accept your initiatives. It is interesting that two ministries, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, are particularly highlighted. After all, we can acknowledge the praise of the Ministry of Labour, which responds in the Government's opinion to such a warning, while the Ministry of Health does not even feel that in the Government's opinion such a comment would be, I would say, a negative comment of response to your suggestions and comments. Of course, this concerns us because, as a result, we have very large problems in the adoption phase and in the implementation phase of the laws. And, of course, in the field of the Ministry of Health, the results of the failed legislative procedure also show great problems in practice. And I very much agree with you when, in the context of the emphasis on your personal choice, you place very high levels of education as well as health care. And for the area of education, there are a lot of problems related to criticising the relationship between teachers and students, and you note that there is a disturbing change of legislation too quickly. We in the opposition have pointed out this, so all the time in this mandate, that, of course, in the school field it is impossible to adopt laws that significantly affect this field quickly, without taking into account the professional public concerned. And here we have very much pointed out that they are changing, without a critical assessment, the criteria for admission to secondary education. And here you have clearly seen from your report, a few complaints where you point out that there is a violation of legislation and you point out that, of course, not all students were in the same situation as high school students, because the rules were changing in between. And of course, here I am wondering, because today there has been so much talk about what we feel and what we know. I wonder if the ruling coalition knows that, doesn't it? If she knows, it doesn't feel bad. But if he doesn't know that, I wonder if the Prime Minister's address was actually in a double act to go through the current problems that plague Slovenian society. And of course, as a consequence, can we attribute the problems of the teacher-dike relationship, the teacher-student just the rate of adoption of legislation that are not thought out and, of course, in the real world produce certain problems. It is very interesting to hear or to read in the Government’s opinion also comments on the longstanding unresolved problems. I would like to draw attention here to one area that you are talking about in the section Restricting Personal Freedom, in the subsection of the Person with Mental Disorders, where you point out that it is a major problem because there is no law on mental health. But what is interesting in the government's opinion is that the government does not comment on this conclusion with a word. First of all, this is how the government's attitude towards this problem is. So, on page 47, there's an address without any text. And here we have a petition, i.e. a petition filed by 974 signed to regulate the stable functioning of mental health programmes in the community and the legal system in the field of mental health. How can we understand on the one hand this ignorance that the Government does not even comment on the warning of which 10-year history is clearly known, on the other hand there has been a lot of correspondence between the committee and the ministry, which has already promised in the 2005 regulatory programme that this matter is being regulated in 2006. In 2007, not a word in response to your 2006 report. How can we assess such a performance ratio of this ministry? The following would also touch on the consideration of the Law on Patient Rights and the Law on Medicine. These two laws are explicitly cited as an example where the public concerned, despite the fact that it would like to be actively involved, has not been heard in the implementation of the texts, the incorporation of these texts into the legislative texts. And what are we dealing with? We face concrete comments from individuals at different stages. And today it will be interesting to hear or, given that we have already seen practice, that the Ministry of Education has withdrawn one law that has resulted in a lot of blackness in Slovenia, namely the Law on the organisation of education and education, and this withdrawal has been with some expectation that the civil and professional sphere will be invited to participate and, on the other hand, we can see that it is actually one manoeuvre in which the Government does not want it. And of course, you see for yourself that the situation dictates that public participation in the legislative process be regulated by law. So, we ask ourselves, is the situation so bad that we will now need law to cooperate? And has this situation deteriorated within this three-year mandate of this government so much that we really have to deal with the law, given that the public concerned is being ignored? This government is on trial right now under the Patient Rights Act. We have a series of open questions. To date, there has been no response to how to address the rights arising from compulsory health insurance covered by a health insurance undertaking and so-called general rights governed by this law. And what's interesting is your case, which is the right to a cure. How will this problem be addressed when the Law on Patient Rights is adopted? We are talking about that this is the competence of the procedure under the Health Care Act, the health insurance which is responsible for health insurance. At the same time, whether it is possible to distinguish this right from the right which speaks of this general accessibility, quality treatment and so on, which will be addressed by the Patient Rights Act. The interested and professional public warns: "The solutions in this law are not good". Your report speaks of the need to change the government's culture of behaviour towards the public concerned. There is now a concrete case. Will this Government be able to take a step back, which is the only rational one that allows quality preparation of this law, so that tomorrow you will not have significantly more cases in the report after the adoption of this law, when rights will be regulated in a double degree, not that the regulation of rights will be significantly easier, but we will have a duality. For it is to be expected when someone has a comment on the right to the medicine or will apply both procedures and what will happen if such a procedure is in conflict. This is recalled in the context of this report, and also in the view of the Government, which speaks of some of the authorities of this Government with arrogance rejecting your comments. And the Ministry of Health is one of those people that's involved. At the same time, practice also shows that the Ministry of Health, at least in the past period, was not one that would take account of the public concerned during the drafting phase of these laws. I therefore expect that today's consideration of this report will also contribute to the consideration of the Patient Rights Act through today's debate, through warnings that we will involve the public concerned in drafting laws, that we will get laws that will allow your reports to be cheaper, that people will have fewer problems in exercising their rights, and that there will be as few procedures as possible when you talk about their violations. That is why I would like to reiterate my appreciation for your report. Of course, it is impossible to summarize all the content, I have pointed out in particular that the Slovenian public expects - and the Slovenian public is mature enough to feel able to participate in legislative procedures - that these warnings in your report will be sufficiently weighty, sufficiently clear, so that the Government will follow this in various legislative procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, Mr President, the esteemed guardian of human rights! Today, if I read the agenda correctly, we are discussing the report. Of course, I support the report. In my opinion, it covers all of what is questionable in Slovenia as regards the realization of human rights. It is true that it is already sufficiently extensive, in fact, if it included all the stories, it would be even more extensive and then we would develop even deeper, under the terms of "philosophy" discussions with memories and more. In dealing with human rights in Slovenia, I am most interested in what is happening to them in Parliament, in the legislative process. Here we often witness lowering standards, such as Slovenia has already achieved. This week, it happened several times. It is happening in the social field, it is happening in the health field, it is also happening in those areas where the country is involved in human relations, which is under the standard that Slovenia has already had and which I do not know, Ivan Tavčar has pointed out in his famous story four thousand. There you can read where Slovenia is going, and I think this can happen for our lives. I would end with a famous Latin river, which is also bound by legislation adopted in this National Assembly. I'm not going to say it's Mr. Bručan, I'm going to use him too many times actually for this, but I'm going to say "Ceterum censeo lejem regimenis esse delendam". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. He's not here. Member Ferry Horvat has the floor. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. He's not here. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Please. You're giving up. And the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Allow me to make a few general remarks first. It does well to determine how an image can affect the reception of content. Dear Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, do not take this as a personal insult, but today it was possible to hear in the debate how different our debate was and this was probably related to the experience of the past years when the Ombudsman was in fact the main subject of the consideration of the report. The fact is, this report was written by the same man, except that he is not with us in the hall now. And I regret that we have not been able to raise ourselves above these facts, and this has probably also been a very favourable assessment of this 2006 report of the 12th Regular, which was issued by a fellow Member, and then, until now, has corrected its judgment in the report somewhat and is no longer as satisfied with this report as it was when it thought that your time frame and your eye had the main concern for this report. I'm sorry to hear that. Because human rights are universal rights, the rights of all of us and the respect for human rights in Slovenia have been a fundamental condition for us to be admitted to the European Union. From here on, we can also ask ourselves the opinions of the European institutions, what are we doing with ourselves and with others in this country, which we say is the country on the sunny side of the Alps. And I dare say that there are many signs that we have stood at that initial stage of democracy in recent times, where most dictate opinions and do not take account of minority communities, which is a more advanced degree of democracy and that even less is taken into account for dialogue with civil society. Everything I'm talking about [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] can be said and understood in the debates on this report. [[...]] But let me quote you on the definition of an impatient or hostile speech as recorded on the 23rd page of the Ombudsman's 2006 report - I think it's right to say. The Ombudsman pointed out that it was very difficult to distinguish between freedom of speech and between hate speech, so he felt it necessary to define hate speech and said to him: hate speech expresses opinions and ideas that are xenophobic, discriminatory, racist or incite violence. It covers verbal, written and non-verbal communication, parades and symbols that humiliate and promote discrimination or violence. None of this was involved in my so far speaking performance. That is why I will continue as I have set myself up to exercise freedom of speech. And I think it's worth saying that it's the job of the Ombudsman to protect an individual, the Ombudsman is not the guardian of institutions, it's even less state institutions. It is not surprising, therefore, that in this report it is not possible to read about the great achievements of this or any previous government, but that we read from this report about the hardships, injustices, problems of people, as well as of whole groups. I would be pleased if there were fewer such cases in this report. I would be pleased if I did not read in this report that the fall in cases in the Ombudsman's report may also be linked to some who have already despaired that they could exercise their right. In fact, the Ombudsman’s report reflected only those cases in which individuals have turned to the Ombudsman, not all the human rights violations we have witnessed at this time. And let me respond to one more thing. The discussion was about why the Ombudsman's report spoke only of human rights and fundamental freedoms, not of duties. Yes, because it is an institution for the protection of rights and must draw attention to violations of rights and fundamental freedoms, as it is also a Convention on Human Rights, there is no obligation. So it would be good to know when we are dealing with commenting and discussing this report. And it would be better if we did not happen to have the individual recommendations answered by the authorities, wrote two pages of the text on which they adopted the law, and finally, on that recommendation which did not say anything else, the Government should set out a long-term strategy for Roma inclusion in society, it is written on both sides of the text: "Let us say that a special strategy is not necessary because the law is adopted". This is now another question whether it is an appropriate response or not, there are also reactions from ministries that specifically answer individual questions, but there are also reactions from ministries that do not seem to be worth responding to. One of these has already been mentioned, but, as the experience of the past years shows, in the main three ministries are acting so "pishmewuhov", I would say, until the Ombudsman's report, and some other ministries have shown a considerable effort at least to respond to what is written in the report. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the role of NGOs and the Ombudsman's initiative is to regulate the procedure or requirement for NGOs or civil society to participate in the drafting of laws. Now, what must be said, certainly, is that of one segment, where we find great progress in implementing the principle of equal opportunities, at least with regard to equal treatment between women and men. Well, I would say that it is necessary to know that in an international analysis in which 128 countries were included in the sample, we agreed on the equality of women in 99th place. But that's not what we're talking about, because that's one of the indicators by which women's equality was detected, was women's participation in politics. Now just because I'm running out of time, a word or two on the recommendations. The recommendations made by the professional service followed the report. They refer to those things that the report has seen as most critical and important. Unfortunately, all the recommendations have not been adopted and we have therefore made recommendations to the Social Democrats, which in most cases follow those who have been released or recast. But there's something I can't avoid. In the Social Protection chapter, we had a recommendation in the proposal which, in my opinion, pointed to what is very often mentioned in our society and also in the Ombudsman's reports, namely the issue of poverty. There we had prepared a recommendation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia verify the appropriateness of the criteria for determining the threshold of poverty or social sustainability. It is appropriate to correct the amounts of social security benefits and to prepare the necessary systemic measures to address the causes of unjustified decomposition or poverty. This recommendation has not been adopted, but the coalition Members have proposed a recommendation that you now have under number 25, which is in fact a recommendation that a government official would probably write because he talks about what needs to be done to achieve all the data in one place. And there would be more to it when it comes to social assistance, how, above all, it is necessary to exercise control over them, not to ask whether they are enough or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, you've run out of minutes. Does the representative of the government want a word? Mr. Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined with particular care all the specific cases highlighted in the report. The shortcomings that could be addressed are already remedied and further measures are or will be taken for the rest. In doing so, let me explain that a number of laws were passed by the Government during this period, either this year or this year. However, some of these laws are already in Parliament or are before you, honourable Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also notes that in 2006 many of the measures that have contributed have been launched in many areas, as it says, to a quicker resolution concerning respect for human rights and legal security in the country. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia expresses its clear intention to pay particular attention to respect for human rights, legality and legal security in the future. If you'll excuse me, I would like to highlight something else about justice, about judicial backlogs, which has been exposed during today's debate as one of our country's major problems. True, the backlogs are still a big, still burning problem. We must not forget, however, when judicial backlogs arose, who was responsible for the judicial backlog. The judicial backlog was due to the reform of the judiciary in 1994, 1995, 1996. Therefore, those involved in the work of the Ministry and in the work of the Government as well as the Assembly of the State at the time are responsible for the backlog. We have taken judicial backlogs seriously, thoroughly and very responsibly to reduce and eliminate them. And we have a serious, ambitious goal of eliminating judicial backlogs by the end of 2010. However, I think it is clear to all how the powers of the Government, the Minister for Justice, the National Assembly and the judiciary are determined. Under the current legislation, the Ministry of Justice is competent and responsible for the drafting of legislation in the field of justice, for the provision of spatial and technical conditions and also for education in the new centre for judicial education. In doing so, I would like to point out that we have already drawn up a law last year to ensure the right to a trial within a reasonable time. This law was adopted in the National Assembly last year, starting with the year 1.1. In this regard, I would like to point out that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has, in a number of its decisions this year, even in its last decision a good ten days ago, stressed that the Republic of Slovenia has, from 1.1.2007 onwards, an effective means of ensuring the right to a trial without undue delay. In addition, we adopted more than 15 laws last year, all with a view to simplifying judicial proceedings, speeding up judicial proceedings and rationalising business. In addition, legislation also went towards strengthening the role and responsibilities of the Presidents of the Courts, the Presidents of the Direct Supreme Court and, of course, the President of the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice. For we must be aware, and we must not forget, as has been pointed out, the judicial backlogs are indeed falling little. We really expect, just as you do, honourable Members and honourable Members, as mentioned in today's debate, that the judiciary will really only proactively approach the abolition of judicial backlogs, since court cases, case files, court files can only be resolved by judges, judicial personnel or courts. And here is the role, the responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts, who must ensure that all courts have the right to a trial within a reasonable time. That is why, last year, we also provided additional premises, additional space conditions, additional equipment for the work of the courts. And I'd just like to point out something. Last year we provided 13,700 square metres of additional business space for the work of the courts, and we also provided additional 9000 square metres of business space on the so-called internal market on the free market within the state administration. Last year, the judiciary received more than 22000 additional business premises, including a plot for a new court building in Ljubljana, because the spatial problem in Ljubljana is really hot, but we also provided additional space with these measures to temporarily solve the spatial problem in Ljubljana. In addition, we have carried out more than 80 adaptation projects for investment maintenance, renovations of judicial facilities throughout Slovenia. We have provided 62 additional fully equipped debate halls in Slovenia. We have provided furniture for judges, judicial staff, we have also provided premises for a new central enforcement department on the basis of a credible instrument, which is expected to start working with 1.1.2008 in order to put an end to enforcement procedures. There are spatial conditions, and the task and responsibility of the court are to remove the backlogs. In this regard, I should also point out that the Government has also taken measures to increase the number of judicial posts in three years, namely in 2006, 2007 and 2008, by 175 judges and 250 judicial staff each year, an additional 750 judicial staff in those three years. Funds are provided, but unfortunately we have encountered unsuccessful tendering procedures for district judges, for judges in the first stage. We must point out that the human resources base is exhausted. And the success of the tendering procedures for district judges, i.e. judges in the first stage, is only 54.43% this year. Last year it was 88%. In fact, some courts with large backlogs are unsuccessful tendering procedures. Specific case, Maribor District Court. For the past year, we have been repetitive, three times, four times, and we still do not have or are still lacking 15 judges. In this regard, we are also considering the possibility of lowering the age limit for judges of beginners, which the Government has also offered in negotiations with trade unions to regulate wage relations in the first half of this year. And now the President of the Supreme Court or the Strategic Council of the Court of Justice has taken the view that the age limit for judges of beginners should be reduced, as it is in others or, I can say, in the 14 Member States of the European Union, no lower age limit has been set, but anyone can start or run for a free trial after a legal examination. As regards official controls, as noted in this report, we also explain. Official supervision is a measure of the judiciary itself. The Court is solely responsible and solely responsible for ensuring the quality and scope of the work of the Judges. This is where the government and the Minister of Justice cannot and must not interfere. The administrative dispute was also mentioned. Administrative dispute, new law on administrative dispute has been adopted. As already mentioned today, it has had certain effects on the effectiveness of the courts, on the acceleration of judicial proceedings and on the speedy provision of the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable time. In this regard, we also stress that, at the Ministry of Justice, we are in the process of amending the law on judicial procedure, including with a view to speeding up judicial proceedings and ensuring final decision-making at a second stage, as Mr Dukoff has already mentioned today, such as Mr Dukof and other pre-accession German advisers, when we were not yet members of the European Union, we have warned and proposed. In doing so, I would point out that we have prepared some other legislative amendments or are in the process of preparing other legislative amendments, both the Law on Judicial Fees, the Law on Free Legal Aid, the amendment of the Law on Lawyers and other laws, all with a view to further speeding up, further rationalising judicial proceedings so that they can come to a decision and judgment within a reasonable period of the next three years, as set out in the next Austria and Germany. In the end, I'd just like to point out something else or quote. In the last issue of Legal Practice, where even the former State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice for the field of law, Mr Jenull, the Attorney General, today, points out in the preamble that, in the mandate of the current Minister of Justice, Prof. Dr. Lovra Šturm, there was more to be done than in any previous judicial mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Zinrajh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members, Madam Guardian! We welcome and respect the Ombudsman's report as an important segment that contributes greatly to human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. If he touched on the heads of national and ethnic minorities, it may have been somewhat embarrassing to note that the law enforcement authorities had not acted in the case of Strojan in a proper manner or that the authorities had not detected any criminal conduct motivated by ethnic hatred, let alone to be publicly condemned. Of course, it must be said here that the motive of the perpetrator is a mental movement that leads to service or the commission of a crime. In the event of events involving the Strojan Roma family, the police dealt with a number of crimes. Among other things, due to the suspicion of the service, several criminal offences have been brought by the Public Prosecutor's Office under Article 148, paragraph 9, of the Criminal Procedure Act and on the basis of the 10th paragraph of the same Article of this Act. At the same time, five criminal charges have been filed for the suspicion of a crime of incitement to hatred, discord or intolerance based on a violation of the principle of equality under Article 300 of the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. The next thing I want to touch is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Mother v Slovenia. In particular, I would like to say that the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act within the special group of prosecutors at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has introduced a specialised department which is solely local and genuinely competent for the prosecution of all offences committed by officials employed by the police or other officials employed in the field of internal affairs in a law-appointed competent authority in the Ministry of Defence with powers of police in the pre-trial procedure and, of course, officials assigned to the mission abroad. And by doing so, we believe that we have contributed something to the comments the Ombudsman has made. The following chapter discusses the requirement to assess the constitutionality of police authority in identifying identity. The Ombudsman states in the report that he has made a request for the constitutionality of the identification authority, the first paragraph of Article 35 of the Police Act, stipulating that police officers may determine the identity of a person who, by his behaviour, behaviour, appearance or detention at a particular place or at a certain time, raises suspicion that he will commit, commit an offence, a crime, and the person subject to the powers set out in Article 41 of this Act. According to the Ombudsman's assessment, the authority is too vague, as it allows the police to identify themselves on the basis of their appearance. On the basis of these observations and the decision of the Constitutional Court that the first paragraph of Article 35 of the Police Act was inconsistent with the Constitution, the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Police, as the body in its composition, has drawn up a proposal to amend that Article, in which the reasons for the exercise of the powers of identification have been further specified. The Law amending and supplementing the Police Act, which also exempts the amendment mentioned in this Article 35, entered into force on 9.8 last year. The Ombudsman as one of the biggest problems of Slovenian society, which has been repeating itself for a long time and has exceeded the borders of the country, as he is also regularly dealt with by international institutions for the protection of human rights, cites the issue of citizens of other countries, successors of the former SFRJ, to whom, after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia in the Register of Permanent Populations, the registration of permanent residence has ceased and they have been transferred to the records of foreigners. Then I would like to propose to all those who use the term 'extended' so often to abandon it. Not only is it not the right response to what it carries behind it, but it is also not adequate to describe the actual situation in general. It's a particularly problematic matter for foreigners to talk about. For if you translate this term directly into a very useful European language, English, "rased", it means something completely different about this segment of speech. The Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to point out that it is aware of the seriousness of this problem in which some of these persons have been found, despite the fact that Slovenia has given citizens of other successor countries of the SFRJ a number of opportunities to regulate status in Slovenia, both for obtaining citizenship and for obtaining residence permits in our territory. Other nationals of the former SFRY were granted the possibility of obtaining Slovenian citizenship under favourable conditions and of retaining their nationality until 25.12.1991, when the deadline for submitting applications for citizenship was reached under the facilitated conditions laid down in Article 40 of the Citizenship Act. I would like to say that the Government has recently tabled a solution, as it sees from this problem, namely the constitutional law. The matter is ongoing within the parliamentary procedure and whether we will be able to provide a two-thirds majority for the approval of this law, but it is a particular issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you, too. Anyone else want it on behalf of the government? Mr. Žiberna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye, ladies and Members of Parliament! Ma'am, it's a lovely greeting. At the Ministry, we believe that any remark made by the Ombudsman is, in the first place, an opportunity for us to improve and also look at it in his report. In short, I would like to remind you that we have already taken quite a number of measures to actually make these things better. In this way, I would like to say that in the first part of the Ombudsman, he has pointed out the long-term procedures before the health insurance institution or their doctors and commissions, which will have to be regulated by the institution itself or in its responsibility by the Director-General. In the case of a patient’s rights law or a law that should cover patients’ rights, there has already been a lot of speech today. Members of Parliament have already spoken of many things. I just want to say that so far, there has been a lot of legislation laying down patients' rights, but there will be a new law that is in the parliamentary procedure, and I am sure that, given the many interests and comments that are felt and expressed, we will be able to make a real law with you for patients and citizens that is very useful. With regard to the comment on the under-inclusion of civil associations and all those interested in the drafting of laws, I would say that this matter may also be somewhat relative, because there are very precise standards in this form, which means that one party may consider that it has already been sufficiently involved, while it is clear that new and new stakeholders are emerging and are taking new and new initiatives, even somewhat late. However, such things in the practice of the Law on Patient Rights are also considered to be well-intentioned and we will work together to improve the case in this and in future cases. As far as the Oncology Institute is concerned, it's already being realized. I can only point out that the procedures for the acquisition of equipment and others have also been drawn by legislation that has been very awkward and has made it possible for many parties. At that time, you know that you have already adopted a new law, which in many ways is better, and also actually such public procurements can take place faster. With regard to the last two views on the specific complaints made by two parties in the procedure or by patients, of course, it is only right to say that, in the case of compensation by a patient, it is necessary, on all sides, to inform such a party that such an application must be submitted directly to that healthcare institution, which is an objective partner in this relationship, and also in other matters, it seems correct that everyone, if he has any dissatisfaction with an operator, first of all, would try to resolve this dissatisfaction where it was created. If you have any further questions, we're at your disposal, but I think that's essential, which is what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Stroms.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members, the Ombudsman with colleagues! Allow me to say something in answer to a question relating to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We are grateful for all the views of the Ombudsman as authority in this area and as one who, on this extremely long front between desires and needs, on the one hand, and the sustainability of taxpayers and the power of the State, on the other, finds those weak points where something needs to be done. And we believe that where the guardian points, something must be done. And in fact, no matter how the challenges were announced, every case the Ombudsman warned about, even in previous years, we reacted, looked at what was going on, and, if only possible, we corrected, not just that case, but everything similar. The Ministry is in this situation to cover almost a million monetary benefits that go to pensioners every day, children's allowances are here, social assistance, parental allowances and scholarships. Almost a million people are sensitive and live off of it and respond to any problem that then arises. And it's hard to figure out where some well-founded complaint is, where it's not. And the Ombudsman in fact gives weight and identifies where there is actually a need to respond with more force than with the routine work responsibilities that any state office that exercises the rights that go to individuals has. Now there is something to be said about specific matters. And it is in these cases, which were also exposed here today, that you can see how things that are not yet perfectly regulated may be complex. If we react to some self-inflicted initiative and correct or amended law applies to all of us, we can make a case for those who have pensions that are partly due in other republics of the former Yugoslavia, including significant problems. And many of the pensioners who now receive pensions in Slovenia also at the expense of those periods of work in the former Yugoslavia are calculated in exactly the same way as the whole time he lived in Slovenia and worked here, he is a bit afraid of the convention. [[...]] I can say that even in cases where we have already done so and which the Ombudsman points out in the 2006 report, at least for those who have been stranded, it has not been so bad, because all the loss that has been caused by the lower level of pensions at the expense of periods in Croatia has been covered by our national budget. However, this applies only to those who have been distracted. For those who are now retired, but not for them. And this must still be solved in some way and this is a very good initiative. Even at this level, the lower level of social benefits that we call this minimum income of the population, we need to be a little careful. Even now, they say that an excessive number of those below this threshold is set, not at 60 euros, but at 205 euros. If this threshold is raised, the number will increase further. And this threshold, given the comparable countries of the European Union, which have a similar gross domestic product, is not low, I can confirm, and there is actually data. What is necessary and what is also followed by the report of the Ombudsman is urgent attention and some necessary relationship that may go beyond that strictly official, computer-supported logic. And in these cases, where the matter is also somewhat loosely regulated by marriage, this can be a very useful direction to follow. So I think that in relations with the Ombudsman, there is no ministry in this situation, so that somehow there is always a defensive state to feel disturbed, but it has taken all initiatives seriously so far and has tried to study and apply all those problems with laws that are too bad to talk about, because you know them as I do, because you have treated them and you have accepted them. What's more important is that many specific cases that we have to deal with every month in such a way that there are no disturbances at all and that you don't even know that the system works without specificity. But where there are specialities, we thank the Ombudsman if he gives us timely warning that we can react and make things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you. This was an additional explanation by the Government. Madam Guardian, Dr. Chebaskov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u96	I must say that I am very pleased with today's debate or this debate, which has been comprehensive, interesting and shows that Members see the importance of human rights and also the importance of cooperation with the Ombudsman. In fact, we are on the same side, we are both monitoring the functioning of the country, we are also in some kind of supervisory function over the exercise of human rights. I am particularly pleased with the mass support for the proposal for a more transparent adoption of legislation, and I believe that you will adopt an appropriate law as soon as possible. In this way we will come to better quality legislation that will lead to a better realization of human rights and thus continue to gain the reputation in this area in Europe. I would answer two groups of questions relating on the one hand to current events related to the Ombudsman and on the other to the 2006 Annual Report. But before I do that, I'd like to briefly summarize the way the guardian works. Basically, the Ombudsman's work is dedicated to solving initiatives. The initiatives are complaints by an individual who complains about a State authority or an institution that he has been harmed by an act of injustice or that he has violated a right. That's the basics. Of course, we are also working on more systematic tasks. It is one of these, and no one has mentioned it today, a response to the current problem. 13.11. we visited the National Assembly with a focus on the environment and human rights, and on this occasion I thank the National Assembly again, and especially Mr President, for allowing us to do so. Other forms of work include the Ombudsman's own initiatives, including adoption initiatives or legislative changes. Our annual report can be the basis on which Members, if you so choose, will propose laws. However, if we decide to propose a law or amendment, we will offer it to Members to examine it and process it further. I would like to say something about my cooperation with the Members. When I was talking or during my pre-election talks, I said that I wanted to work with you. And I must say that I have already been approached by several Members, in writing, on the phone or through the media. Each one of them got an answer from me. Anyone who wanted to come to me had that opportunity. At the first possible free period, I accepted anyone who wanted to come to me, and it was also left to everyone, whether he would report his visit to the public. Since a joint statement was mentioned earlier with Mrs Majdo Shirca, I say that it was not a political party's press conference, but rather the support of the Ombudsman to a certain legal proposal. This, at least in my opinion, is a proactive action in the sense that Mr Pece mentioned earlier. At the press conference held by the party Zares in the same content, Mr Hanžek participated, the previous one, or at the time, he was no longer the Ombudsman. My work is focused on the protection of human rights. I am trying to stay out of separate political options. That somehow I'm doing it, among other things, is from the media reports, where I'm being criticized by both the left and right media. And that somehow led to me. I also met with some ministers. With some on their initiative, I have invited others myself because I have estimated that we will be able to deal with some problems more easily if we do this in private conversations than through the media. I can tell you that I've invited some ministers, but they haven't been able to respond yet. With some ministers, we have already taken some important steps towards improving or improving the conditions for the realization of human rights, and especially children's rights. We also held press conferences with some ministers. Now for the current events. I'm going to comment on a few of them for a moment. Once again, I invite Members and Members to contact me whenever they think my reaction is wrong. I think we could solve a lot of misunderstandings, a lot of unnecessary appearances in the media. I don't think necessary because things just get more complicated and don't contribute to cleaning up. If you can't or can't do it yourself, your coworkers can do it. Now for the specifics. The Zdenska village. The role of the Ombudsman is to verify the functioning of state institutions in relation to an individual. I did this task both in the case of the village of Zden, and also when I went with a team of associates to Ambrus and talked to everyone involved, that is, the locals. They told me that I was the first person from Ljubljana to listen to them. If anyone thinks that a guardian can't say that a state institution has acted legally, please explain it to me. Of course, I do not say that all social work centres are legally, correctly and ethically acceptable. I'm going to write about their mistakes and inadequate case solving in the annual report this year. And I've already talked to Minister Cotman about these weaknesses. At the Ministry, they will not have to wait for our report to come out, but the weaknesses can begin to resolve earlier. About the news, why I didn't say anything in the Owl case. That's not true again. I was at the 8th extraordinary session of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. This meeting is not yet concluded. I have been invited to the meeting and I have also expressed my opinion at this meeting, which Members can easily get, at least I think so. What's in the case of journalist Rance? We checked our database and Mr Ranc did not give an initiative to the Ombudsman. If I do not have this initiative, I have neither his permission nor the material, the documents on which I can speak. If Mr Ranc or anyone who has been deprived of his rights in a similar way will be violated in a similar way, if he wants us to talk about this together in public, I am prepared to do so. While the judgment is very important, the Court has found a violation of human rights. And it is also true that we have a legal state, that we have courts and that these courts find that the rights have been violated. The Ombudsman cannot comment on the judgments of the courts, as this would interfere with the independence of the courts. I also say that some journalists have spoken to me, they have entrusted me with their stories, they have given initiatives, but they do not want me to speak publicly about their initiatives. And of course, I have to respect their decision, because the Ombudsman's procedure is confidential. Then, as regards the operation of the European Court of Human Rights in the Slovenian language. That's the problem. This problem has been brought to my attention by the European Court of Human Rights and I have been personally asked to try and get people to sign up for this job in Strasbourg. To date, there has been no response, although after some routes I have extended this offer both between young graduates and some other routes, and otherwise the invitation to tender has also been published on the website of the European Court of Justice. If you know anyone else who wants to go to Strasbourg and he's a lawyer, it's a very good time to apply. I think this invitation is open for a few more days. Now to the question of the special guardian. The Ombudsman has different areas of work. And if we are to distribute these rights, we must ask ourselves what remains of the Ombudsman's rights, for by the Constitution the Ombudsman covers all areas. He is assisted by deputies, but by the Constitution we have defined ourselves as a single institution of the Ombudsman. And if we go to different areas. The Ombudsman is already working in the field of patient rights or in the field of child rights. And you have to ask yourself what a special guardian would do differently than I do with my coworkers. The Ombudsman’s service is organised to enable teamwork, which would become much more difficult after explanation. This is evidenced by the distribution of guardians in other countries, but now they are reuniting the guardian services because it is so more efficient and more economical. It is also very important for an individual instigator to know who he can turn to with his problem. If there are more guardians, these areas and competences must be divided. However, since many initiatives are mixed across areas, these initiatives or roles will travel from one guardian to another. We see something similar already when individual public services are said to be not competent or, on the other hand, even conflict between the powers of individual guardians. Colleagues from abroad, colleagues of the Ombudsman, the ombudsmen advise me to keep the institution united and to show it to be strengthened if necessary. And for this change of reinforcement, I have already decided, and I hope that the National Assembly will support my proposals for additional co-workers or funds. Now a few more words about the subject being exposed. We have already dealt with the problem of personalisation and will continue to do so. And that's why I'm going to ask everyone who has this problem who has personally faced this way, I'm going to tell them to buy tickets to the football game to write us or call us. We will examine the functioning of the police, examine their legal bases, and, above all, determine whether these are human rights violations. Mrs Irgle said earlier about an incentive that I should not appoint for the protection of personal data. If she were to turn to me, we would have given her an answer, just as we did to all the others who were engaged by the initiator. And there weren't enough of these. Of course, in public, I cannot say what the Ombudsman has done in his case and I cannot say what the current state of contact with him is. But they're not your contacts. I'll say they're broken. I can't talk to the public about content, not about individual steps. But the Lord can talk about it and only say what he wants to say. And that's his right and we're not going to deny it to him. As far as poverty is concerned, I have made it public and clear many times. Poverty in Slovenia is a problem. Every day, but literally every day, I get the initiative of the people who are my guardian, because the name of the guardian somehow illustrates one way to get to the financial resources to solve their problems. Every day I have letters of this kind, and every day we wonder how censorships are placed, how ways are put in place, how people cannot reach enough resources to be able to survive with dignity. We have set up a special matter, a general matter, poverty, and we are collecting information on this, so that you can expect more in our report. And a few more words about the reputation of Slovenia. I have recently been visited by the head of UNHCR, he has his seat in Budapest, and he has warned me that the proposed legislation, but now that the asylum law has been passed, is significantly lowering standards for potential asylum seekers. He asked me to point out that this reduction would not be done or that if this law were adopted, it would shed a different light on Slovenia. He came to me with an English translation of our bill proposal and showed me certain points which are disputed for this international organisation. It is also a way of spreading the voice about Slovenia. I've got one minute left. Maybe a few more words about the vision of my work. As mentioned above, children remain my first concern and we invest a lot of energy, a lot of work, a lot of heart. And my colleagues, who are preparing for the project Advocate - the voice of the child, are doing this in cooperation with others, trying to mobilize as many people as possible in Slovenia, who can support children, those children who cannot be supported by their family, their environment, their school. As a guardian, I also warn you of violence. And talking about violence everywhere, even on the road, of course, is nothing new to me. I'm sure many of you are also victims of traffic violence, and so am I. And that is why, as a guardian, I also support a civil initiative in this area, such as the Safe Way organisation, which also cares for children's rights. And I could also list these activities, and I wonder what the special guardian for children's rights or for special rights could do. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you. We have concluded the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to the recommendations to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21 November 2007. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u98	It may be unusual, but I think my proposal has been put in place. Today the Government, which is not present, or only now the Minister has arrived, all the other ministers have not attended, or only the secretaries of state, although we know that the government's meeting is long overdue, Mr Zammernik. In view of the fact that the Government did not take full advantage of the space, the Ombudsman herself had little time, and since there was so much time left, but I understood that you were hunting the assigned or specified or agreed minutes, I would suggest that if you could not respond to our long performance, we should give the guardian a few more minutes. Thank you. Which the government is obviously not going to take advantage of, as she intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u99	This is an unusual proposal and I do not put it to the vote. We know what the rhythm is and what the mode of time is. I would like to mention that only the LDS 26 seconds, Nova Slovenija 10 seconds, Mrs Possonceva you have five minutes and the Slovenian National Party have a minute 49 seconds, which is not here. Because I suggest that I put all the amendments into debate at the same time and ask if any of those who still have time want to discuss it? LDS, Nova Slovenija and Mrs Possonce can discuss from the audience. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Skull, would you like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I've already said in the opening recital that those conclusions, the amendments, they're part of the solution, in contradiction. On the one hand, it is expected of all those accompanying this report to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court as closely as possible and, on the other hand, to be implemented as possible. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the conclusion that decisions on deleted are to be resolved by constitutional law. [[...]] These two decisions are contrary, so I think only the initial decision can be taken [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u101	Thank you. Anyone else want from New Slovenia? Is there 10 seconds left? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on amendments and recommendations in full. The amendments and recommendations will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the law on amendments to and additions to the law on the mother records of the insured and enjoymentrs of the rights of the deceased and invalidity insurance. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Cotman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The Government proposes to amend and supplement the law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits. Data based on the applicable law are necessary for the recognition and assessment of the rights and obligations of pension and disability insurance. In addition to the basic principles for the management of the necessary records, the applicable law lays down in detail the types of records, the set of data, the obligations of data providers, the manner in which the procedures and procedures are conducted to obtain and ensure the correctness of the data, the rights of insured persons and the protection of personal data, and, last but not least, the penalties for non-possessed persons who do not have the data within the prescribed time limits and do not ensure the correctness of the data. Amendments to the law are followed by the development of technology and changes in regulations in other areas linked to the mother record. At the same time, we are reducing the administrative burden on legal and natural persons on whom this law imposes certain obligations. The proposed amendments to the law also introduce electronic transmission of data on salaries and salaries or on insurance bases, but with a transitional period of one year. All those in debt will thus have sufficient time to prepare. In order to effectively control the transmission of data to the home records, the institution will be granted the status of the criminal authority in accordance with the offence law. In order to harmonise both these laws, provisions on fines for data-transfer offences are also being amended. The institution shall be allowed to correct the data on insurers on an official basis in cases where data corrections in the home record are necessary for changes to the applicable rules or for the purpose of the termination of the business of the debtor, subject to express conditions that such corrections are not prejudiced to the existence of insurance and the rights of the insurers. Insurers will be informed of any change in data and effective legal protection provided to them under the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I ask the President, Mr Brenčič, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the Minister with the team! The Committee considered the law in question at its 31st meeting, on 7 November 2007. Representatives of the proposer with the Director-General of the Directorate for Labour Relations and Rights at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Romano Tomc, with the representative of the Legal and Legal Service, Methodo Hrovat Pirnat, and representatives of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, Director-General Marjan Papež. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. This draft law examined the compatibility with the Constitution and the legal system from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments to Article 3, which mainly pointed to the clear determination of the obligation to notify the insurer and the debtor. No amendments were tabled to the draft law by qualified applicants, and the Committee drafted and adopted its two amendments on the basis of a proposal by the law-and-legislative opinion. In the context of the debate on Article 3 and the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the amendment proposal, however, removes uncertainty as to the information of the data change insurer, while the question of the debtor remains. The representative of the proposer explained that they followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service with the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, as they addressed the legal uncertainty of informing the insurer of the change of the data. With regard to the debtor, however, it considered that its cooperation was necessary and meaningful when it could help to comply with its data in the home record. The additional protection of the insurer and of the debtor shall provide for a new third paragraph which explicitly provides that such data corrections shall not affect the existence or the course of the insurance. It stressed that non-essential technical data and changes were involved and therefore considers that mandatory notification of the debtors would also be a very questionable measure in the light of the removal of administrative barriers. After a brief discussion, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, as has already been said, adopted its amendments to Articles 3 and 6, which are incorporated into the amended draft law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished Members of Parliament! By establishing a portal "I know, all in one place" independent entrepreneurs can apply on the shortest route via the Internet to prepare for the calculation of social security contributions and to report the data of the independent entrepreneur to the compulsory pension and disability insurance and health insurance, parental protection insurance, unemployment insurance and the conclusion of the employment relationship. However, the transmission and acceptance of data on the period of insurance, wages or insurance base and remuneration and on paid contributions should continue to be transmitted by employers to the pension and disability insurance institution through an electronic and classical paper route, which is a specific paradox, according to the above-limited portal "I know...". The new law that we are considering today is trying to correct this paradox by introducing the transmission and acceptance of data on the period of insurance, wages or insurance and wage compensations and on paid contributions exclusively in electronic form. A similar form of data transmission is also covered by the Tax Procedure Act concerning the Transmission of Tax Account. The deadline for employers to adapt their transmission systems is 1 January 2008. However, for small employers with fewer than 10 workers, this deadline is extended until 1 January 2009. With the amendment of the law, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance will also become a criminal body. The Office will be able to systematically correct data due to changes in the rules and definitions of the prescribed data, but these corrections should not affect the flow of insurance rights and obligations. The new law on the social and legal security of insurers and beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits will allow for a more modern transmission of data relevant to the social and legal security of insured persons. Electronic data transmission will burden employers of data at a cost, resulting in positive effects for the economy. The data will be more accurate and up-to-date, which will also allow shorter procedures for the recognition of pension and disability benefits, and less error will be made in the assessment of rights. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The proposal for this novel is essentially following a single objective. This is the creation of the conditions for the efficient collection of data required by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance to carry out insurance through the home records and to ensure, in a simplified manner, the correctness and completeness of the data by official duty, the simultaneous unloading of the debtor or the data subject. Such an approach in the transmission or acquisition of data ensures more up-to-date and, more importantly, establishes the completeness of the home record. It also reduces the costs incurred by the debtors in relation to the transmission of data. However, minor changes to the basic law are also necessary in order to establish the possibility of transmission of the data necessary for the implementation of the insurance in electronic form. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u110	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Dear Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! We support the proposed changes and additions in our parliamentary group, as we believe they are appropriate and certainly useful for the institution that collects information on paid contributions as the custodian of the necessary information, but this law is also good for the debtors and the insurers who provide the data and need them in the exercise of rights. The proposed method of electronic data transmission has a range of beneficial consequences, less red tape, greater transparency and, of course, a reduction in costs. For debtors who are not yet adequately equipped for electronic data transmission, sufficient time will be required to prepare within one year. In the meantime, someone else can share this information in the same way, under the authority of the other party. Another important change concerns data corrections in the record, which are in many cases incomplete or incorrect, which of course is good and will be more transparent, accurate and therefore more justly used in the future record of all data. We have no doubt that the data will be used and collected, as well as communicated, to the right addressees in accordance with the protection of personal data. The issue of whether or not a debtor should be informed. It is sufficient that insured persons are informed of the data on contributions paid so that they can react in time if they perceive that something is wrong with this. The notice to the insurer is a sufficient legal remedy for us or a sufficient protection in such a way that the procedure for handling unclear matters can be initiated. Finally, we are pleased that the law also imposes sanctions on those who do not provide data in time or are not as they should be. The law is therefore urgently needed and will be supported by the DeSUS Group in a uniform manner. We know that today the situation is that the pension institution often doesn't know who paid and who doesn't want to pay, and many insurers didn't know that the employer doesn't make the necessary contributions for them, and it didn't turn out to be just when they came to exercise their rights or retire, and then they found a catastrophic fact that they, not only did not have the data, but they didn't have the contributions paid. We believe that this will also affect the easier and more thorough recovery of contributions, as it is necessary to know that last year there were as many as 25 billion Slovenian tolls of former contributions. And this is not such a small amount for the pension fund, which can therefore also use this deficit and the unrecovered sum as a basis for those who can then reduce the rights they have paid. We believe that justice will be increased in the years ahead when this system is adopted, enforced and realized, then justice will be increased in the knowledge of all the rights and obligations of employers, and that the end of these, the great dilemma about what belongs to the individual pensioner who has paid contributions or who has worked, should be paid for and not paid for in many ways today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Following the shortening of the procedure, the adoption of the new Pension Insurance Act, which, as a fundamental change or novelty, entails the introduction of the transmission and monitoring of data during the period of payment insurance or on the insurance base and remuneration and on the contributions paid solely by electronic means. This amendment shall enter into force for all entities from 1.1.2009. After consideration on the parental committee, we have come up with, in my view, a good solution that does not lead to different enforcement deadlines for different entities. An important change and a novelty is that the Slovenian Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance is granted the powers of the criminal authority, and in particular the position of an effective and user-friendly administration is an important novelty in order to enable this STIZ to be allowed in cases where data corrections in the home register are necessary for changes to the applicable rules or for the termination of the debtor's business, provided that such corrections do not prejudice the existence of insurance and the rights of the insurers to correct such data under official obligations. This solution is also important from the point of view that in this computerised world so far the form of electronic record does not meet the requirements of electronic document archiving and is also not suitable for long-term storage. There is also an aid or a safeguard that is provided for debtors or data providers who are not adequately equipped to do so by applying the amendments, the possibility is envisaged for another legal or natural person to provide data as a service on their behalf. With regard to the handling of personal data, I would stress that the material is in line with the competent ministries and also with the information officer. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that this solution is only the continuation of the work of this Government, which has committed itself to establishing a high degree of competitiveness in the electronic communications market, which Slovenia is expected to place at least among the first half of the European countries according to the criteria relevant for assessing the development of the information society or electronic commerce. The resolution of the bill, according to our Group of Members, also pursues the objectives of promoting the development and introduction of new technologies and applications in the information society, and in particular it seems reasonable to follow a path that leads to the interconnection and updating of electronic databases of different areas in a cost-effective way, which will be transparent, fast, efficient and friendly for citizens and citizens. For all of this we will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as we support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to make electronic labelling and integration an important indicator of the development of the country and the friendlyness of its administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister and Fellow Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group will not object to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance rights. Non-controversy is, in fact, linked to confidence that solutions that are justified in greater simplicity and efficiency are also, in fact, those that guarantee maximum security. What's this all about? As early as June 2005, the Social Democrats pointed out with a question from the Member States the very pressing problem faced by individuals because the social security contributions to the rights of employees in pension and disability insurance and health insurance were unpaid. And even though the provisions of the relevant laws are [[Labour Records Act, Tax Procedure Act, Pension and Disability Insurance Act and others]] or, perhaps, because of their inadequacy, it was only when the employer paid the contributions that the Pension and Disability Insurance Office granted to employees who had a working period for retirement. However, it was found that, at the time of their retirement, the employer did not pay contributions for a period of time and that the employees did not know about the payment as they received the net salary. That is why we believe that such irregularities need to be avoided and that everyone who is in a regular working relationship must be convinced that his employer is properly billing and paying contributions. We therefore consider that it is a fundamental task to simplify procedures in the management of electronic records, that all of this must be directed towards the user, to protect his rights. And we hope, as it is said, that the system is designed so that the insurer can actually trust this system without blinking that only when he retires will he know what happened to the payments of the contributions. It comes in spite of the introduction and ensuring that records are good for obvious errors, sometimes such errors are also committed by courts in enforcement. And if an individual hadn't looked into his feeding book or his own account, he wouldn't even know they were executing it. As we say, we are counting on the correction that has been adopted with the amendment to these guarantees now being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, which is at 17.50. I'm adjourning the session of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law implementing the customs rules of the European Community under the regular procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendments were tabled in the second reading to the amended proposal, no third reading amendments could be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 12th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 with a proposal for recommendations We are moving on to a decision on the chapters and amendments tabled. We first decide on the first amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the second chapter of the recommendations. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. The Social Democrats' Group has tabled this amendment mainly because since the adoption of the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia there has not actually been much. We believe that, on the basis of the Ombudsman's report for last year, we can find that the movements in this area could be much greater and faster if the Government immediately prepared, virtually at the time of the adoption of the law, including a programme of measures to ensure the achievement of the objectives and vision, we can say in some way, the law on the Roma community. Among other things, it is important that the real scope of the exercise of the rights of the Roma community is very much linked to one of the fundamental human rights, namely the rights that are most linked to the child, namely the right to education, education. In the context of the Roma community, we could significantly improve the situation within this ethnic area in Slovenia if we could ensure that a very large number or the proportion of illiterate Roma, our citizens who have already grown up, can be described. Not to mention children who don’t even attend school regularly or in many cases. And the country could certainly do a great deal here, because the fact is that an educated, informed person is a person who can be very socialized very quickly, and that is why we can avoid many of the problems and problems arising from the unsocial work of our citizens and citizens. Of course, we urge you to support this amendment to chapter 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 2 of the recommendations. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 4 of the recommendations. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 2 of the proposals, namely Chapter 6. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same chapter of the recommendations. Mrs. Pecanova, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The Group of Members is already in the Proposal of the Home Records Act, I do not know exactly what the title of the law is, this law, which we have just discussed, on the mother's record of paying social security contributions, has supported the law and also the amendment with which it supplemented this law in the second reading. However, we believe that the Government should tighten its supervision of employers and make sure that what is actually happening with the directive is paid for the social security contributions of the workers employed. Here it must be said that it is not only some small employers who employ up to 10 workers, but also very large. You have probably noticed that not so long ago, in some companies that employ more than a thousand workers, there was an unknown reason for the hole in the provision of social security contributions and that workers were not informed at all. This is then often revealed only when the worker either goes to confirm a medical certificate or goes to retirement and finds that he is missing all years of pension insurance or paid contributions to pension insurance. We therefore propose that the monitoring of compliance with the obligation to pay contributions by employers for the social security of their workers be as tightly monitored as possible and, above all, non-payments are subject to sanctions. We suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u120	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New 7a Group of Social Democrats. Chapter of the proposals for recommendations. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to chapter 11 of the recommendations. Mrs. Pecanova, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much. A little joke, I will also make up for my absence at the time of the debate, so I think it is an opportunity now to invite you to also, in accordance with the end of the proposed law, tabled by the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group, which in fact requires something similar from the Government. In view of the fact that the coordination of social security benefits would be more life-saving, more tailored to the actual situation in our country and, in particular, to prevent an ever-increasing distribution and increase of poverty. The fact is that the methods used to determine the threshold of poverty are obsolete from 2004 onwards, and only the amount found at that time is revalued from year to year, depending on how until the last amendment of the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia has actually been implemented, first in line with wage increases or rising prices of living needs, and now on the basis of the difference between inflation before and in the previous year. So, once a year. In this case, colleagues from the DeSUS Group explained to me that in January these revenues would be revalued with less than 3% growth, because the difference between pre-last year and last year’s inflation was expected to be around 2.6% to 2.8%, and in fact prices on average rose by at least 5.1%. People who receive, say and write, the former 50,000 tolars, say something over 200 euros of the only resource to survive, certainly with 2.8% or 2.7% of the increase this amount will not be able to live much better than now. We therefore propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, check the appropriateness of the criteria for determining the threshold of poverty and social sustainability and, on this basis, correct the amount of the minimum social security benefits by a single act and then adjust the way these benefits are coordinated with inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 33. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our decision on the amendments to the proposal for recommendations. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for recommendations to the 12th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2006 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 of whom voted against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the recommendations are fully accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the daily - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Mother Records of Insuranceers and Users of Pension and Disability Insurance Rights. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Saš Pečet's question on the progress of the privatisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 17, for 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožef Školč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Jožef Školč's question on the transmission of data on Slovenia abroad. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Školč, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members and colleagues to the fact that in that reply to Mr Janša and also to the subsequent meeting, the answer to very clear questions was not to be given to those individuals who are profaning Slovenia in foreign countries. The Prime Minister only pointed out the list of 571 signatories to the petition, but he did not confirm that the other information they were throwing at Slovenia in other matters would be transmitted abroad by the same people. I think it is an important question and that the Prime Minister has taken a lot of time to deal with these 571 signatories, but he has not taken a minute to answer another question or other questions. It would be very good if we could please him and allow the debate on these issues to continue so that the National Assembly will not suddenly be in a situation where someone is afraid and we will all be shown here again as those we want badly. Whoever wants Slovenia's good, this proposal should support things to be cleared up and that without a bit of suspicion, we can work on each other. These are very important things that, in my opinion, if they are really thrown away and half-responsible, they really throw a bad light in the public eye on the President of the Government and on those who do not allow such a debate. I should've reminded you, too. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr President, you have advised me to reach a debate on certain issues within the institution of the question of mission. [[...]] Now you have the opportunity to support this debate. I will also look at the issue for you as you voted, Mr President. You suggested that I use this institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the proposal for a decision is open. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Miran Potræ's question on the work of the Prime Minister of the Government. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Zgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Zofija Mazej Kukovič to Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš's question on non-compliance with the contractual obligations. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 39. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Janko Webra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport of Mags. Radovan Žerjav on the question of Mr Jank Weber on the impact of changes in the management of Dars and Slovenian Railways. Mr Weber, please, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I would just like to recall briefly all the present that the Minister of Transport was, in fact, kind of in favour of this debate being held, but not only in direct connection with the effects of the personnel replacements in the Company for the Construction of Motorways as well as in the Slovenian Railways, but also in the implementation, as my question has been raised, of the dynamics of the construction of motorways as well as of other programmes linked to the development axes. One of the important obstacles to the efficient construction of infrastructure has proved to be Natura 2000 as an insurmountable obstacle to many development projects or infrastructure installations. Thus Natura 2000 is certainly one of those who not only tangulate the 3rd A development axis against Kočev, but also in all other areas of Slovenia. And it would be good for the National Assembly to be familiar with these consequences and problems that we will face in all the accommodations of infrastructure facilities in the space. Today is still the time to draw attention to this also through a sober debate here in the National Assembly and then we try to apply it to the European Commission, because we need to be aware that Brussels will in fact have direct competence over the permits and management of Natura 2000 here in Slovenia. Just to leave decision-making to someone far from this space, I think it is important enough, however, to warn that we are trying to carry out this debate at this stage and then continue in line with the conclusions that will be adopted in this debate. I propose that you actually support this debate. I can say again, and Minister Žerjav also agreed with these problems and also expects some solutions from this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u126	We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 38. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Willi Trofenik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport of Mags. Radovan Žerjava to Mr Willi Trophynik's question on the construction of fast roads. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 35. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milan M. Exercise in relation to the response to inflation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Finally, we move to the conclusion that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to Mr Sam Bevik's question on tax reliefs to address the consequences of natural disasters. We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 36. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day - This is on a defensive proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on interstate adoptions. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the State of Israel has proposed a law on the ratification of the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and capital taxes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're going to 20. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION AGAINST THE USE OF UNEXPORTED SubstanceS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on legal examination, within the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 20 November 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled in the draft law for the third. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 54 of whom voted against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also adjourn the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
