ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We begin the continuation of the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: colleague Anton Anderlič, colleague Bogdan Barovic, colleague of Geza Juban from 13:00 on, colleague Ljubo Germič from 13.30 onward, winner of Jelinčič Trimeniti, Rudolf Može from 13.30 on, Milan Friday from 12 noon on, mag. Borut Saiovic, Dr Mitja Slavinec from 13 a.m. to 13 p.m., colleague Alojz Sok and Ambassador Dara Lavtizar Bebler from 13 a.m. And we're moving on to 4. Period of the day - This is to the contrary the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Preventing Competition Restraint. We are considering the bill following a reduced procedure. However, I would like to inform you that we have at our disposal 40 minutes for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. That's why I give the word mag. Mr Andre Visiak, Minister of Economy, for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Good morning! The Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, which entered into force on 14 July 1999, is now undergoing a second amendment. The first change was called for by Slovenia's entry into the European Community and at the same time reform, thus implementing the reform of European competition law. The current amendment, however, is primarily intended to ensure a more effective application of the law, which has therefore been amended once. If we can talk about unifying European competition law in the first novelty, we are talking about the need to punish violations of this law whether they occur only within the national framework or beyond those national borders. Even now, the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act has provided a legal basis for the direct application of the rules of the European acquis - we are speaking specifically here of the 81st and 82nd Articles of the Treaty on European Community - and the proposed amendments and additions provide for the sanctioning of such infringements. And what do these two articles say? First, Article 81 prohibits restrictive agreements or the formation of certain cartels and Article 82 prohibits the abuse of a dominant position. In short, so far there has been no violation of these articles, I am talking about Slovenian national legislation, sanctioned, and we are now ensuring that this amendment penalises such violations on the same basis, regardless of whether the infringement is judged under Slovenian or European legislation. Other major changes relate to more efficient use and primarily to the right of access to files and the protection of sources in the implementation of this legislation. On the one hand, the existing legal order and Slovenian law are being upgraded, and on the other hand, on the basis of knowledge in the implementation of this legislation, provisions are being introduced to monitor this legislation, which ensure a more effective application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. In the framework of the parliamentary procedure, the draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask Mr Martin Mikolić, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report and the work of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, well-respected minister with co-workers, welcome, colleagues and colleagues! At its 28th meeting, on 12 April, the Economic Committee considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the competition law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. At its 91st meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposed law, namely the Ministry of the Economy, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, attended the meetings of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the two amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, as referred to in Article 2. The amendments were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the context of the second reading of the draft law at the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the proposer introduced the text of the proposed law. In doing so, she stressed that the amendment of the applicable law was necessary because the infringements of Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community were not currently defined as offences. Due to the principle of legality, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition cannot initiate an infringement procedure against the restrictive conduct of undertakings which constitute a breach of these Articles and adequately sanction them. The representative of the Government also pointed out that there are other solutions included in the draft law: the extension of limitation periods in the case of infringements referred to in Article 52 of the Act, the redefinition of offences referred to in Article 52 of the Act, the regulation of the file, the classification of the individual who carries out the activity independently, among the offenders and the change of the tolar amounts in the euro. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service in the written opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and that no other comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The debate on the individual articles of the proposal did not discuss the members of the committee, only in the debate on Article 2 and the amendments of the coalition groups to this article asked what the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on these amendments was. The government's representative explained that the government supports them. The Committee also adopted both amendments. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a law forming an integral part of the report was prepared in the light of the amendments adopted. I suggest we accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be given by colleague Martin Mikolič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thanks again for saying that. The amendment to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act introduces into the law changes necessary for the effective sanctioning of infringements as defined in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and have not been defined as offences so far. The amendment of the law extends the limitation period and redefines the definition of offences from the current to the present, thus allowing effective sanctioning of offenders. Moreover, the law also complies with the Law on Offences. The bill regulates access to the file in a way that protects business secrets and ensures the confidentiality of the source. This allows us to ensure the principle of material truth, since it is possible to ensure the participation of both companies and individuals in a process which would otherwise not be involved in the proceedings because of the disclosure of business secrets. In New Slovenia, we support solutions aimed at ensuring effective competition in the market and allowing all people to be equal before the law. This means that we must have an effective mechanism, which also penalises offenders. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Competition provides the necessary solutions that we support in the New Slovenia Group, and we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. My colleague Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, the distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, visitors to the gallery, a nice good day and a very nice welcome to you on my behalf as well. Preventing competition is one of the more important areas necessary to ensure competition and consumer protection. That is why this issue is regulated already in the Treaty on European Community, Articles 81 and 82. The responsibility for implementing these competition rules lies with the European Commission and the national competition authorities. The new anti-competition law is needed primarily because the infringements of Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty on European Community are not defined as offences in this law. As a result, the Slovenian Competition Authority cannot initiate the infringement procedure and, on the basis of it, also decide on possible sanctions. The proposed amendment addresses this issue in an appropriate manner. The effective provision of protection is also extended by outdated terms or deadlines, as the current contracts often lead to an expiry of cases before the competent court decides on their content. The novela brings some other minor changes. However, we can see that changes are necessary, in fact, already necessary. It has already been shown on the home committee that Members support the proposed amendment and there has not even been a specific debate on individual solutions. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will, of course, support the proposed novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr DeSUS will be represented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! We support the proposed amendments to the law. The need for the preparation and adoption of proposed amendments and the addition of a law on the prevention of competition was first of all due to the gap between the provisions of the law imposing certain powers on the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition under the Council of Europe Regulation concerning the implementation of the competition rules laid down in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, but the criminal provisions of the applicable law do not yet provide for sanctions for infringements of those two Articles. By sanctioning the unlawful conduct, conclusion and implementation of restrictive agreements and the abuse of a dominant position, the Republic of Slovenia will comply with the obligation of the Council Regulation imposing on the national authorities of the Member States, in order to effectively implement Article 81 and Article 82 of the Treaty of the European Community, to define infringements of those Articles as an offence and to impose appropriate fines. With known cases of sentences of very high fines on the part of the European Commission, let us recall the sentence of several hundred million euros to three brewers in the previous week, and in our Group we ask ourselves the question of the appropriateness of the penalties for offenders under our law, since it is significantly more favourable for a specific violator, as far as the nature of a cross-border infringement is concerned, if the procedure is conducted before our competent authority. Nevertheless, we are convinced that the criminal policy in Slovenia in the area of competition protection will be more effective. This will therefore help to limit the direct sanctioning of infringements of the above-mentioned Articles of the Treaty establishing the European Community, as well as to extend the limitation of limitation periods from the current two to three years, although Slovenia is also comparatively seen in the light of the prescribed framework of the Act on Offences in a slightly worse situation than other members of the European Union. The substance of the expiry of limitation periods is also the correct definition of offences in relation to the nature of the act, after the duration, of enforcement, and the proposal for a new law to define the offence in terms of effective legal grounds for sanctioning is undoubtedly better regulated. We also make a positive assessment of the proposed regime on the protection of confidentiality, the identity of the offender's applicant and the view of the file. Potential applicants are rightly afraid that companies will carry out all possible compensatory measures as a result of their cooperation with the Office. It is therefore necessary to ensure the protection of the identity of the source, which, according to our assessment, will contribute positively to more effective cooperation between businesses and individuals with the Office in the infringement detection process. We also believe that the misuse of data which constitutes the business secret of an economic operator and which can be obtained by looking at a file that otherwise constitutes a procedural guarantee in order to ensure the principle of equal treatment of parties in the proceedings and the protection of the right to defence should be sufficient reason to introduce special provisions on the right of the parties to review the documents of the case. In this regard, we also have no doubt that the proposaler's assessment of the classification of the documents of cases which the parties will not be able to review and re-examine. Free competition in cases of legal frameworks improves the quality of life of European and Slovenian citizens and increases their purchasing power. In the parliamentary group, we are aware that consumers rightly expect the competent authorities of the European Union and also the competent national authorities to take care to remove barriers to free competition and thus defend their interests. In order to fulfil this economic freedom, in our DeSUS Group, we will support the amendment and amendment of the anti-competitive law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec will give her position to the national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u12	To the associates and to all present! [[...]] A review of the file is one of the safeguards procedures aimed at ensuring the application of the principle of equality of parties in the proceedings and the protection of defence rights. In accordance with the existing regulation under the General Administrative Procedure Act, which applies to the subsidiary procedure, the parties have the right to look into the file, and this right is limited only to the minutes of the consultation and vote and to draft decisions which are not allowed to be reviewed and copied. The Anti-Limiting of Competition Act also stresses the protection of business secrets in procedures against the Office. It is necessary to take into account that companies competing on the market can participate in this process. And it is not possible to ignore the risk that companies could potentially abuse participation in the proceedings in order to unduly acquire the business secrets of another company and thereby create a competitive advantage. Therefore, it must not be possible to look at the business secrets of an undertaking in the proceedings before the Office of another party by looking at the file and thereby gain a competitive advantage. In addition, it is necessary to ensure the confidentiality of the source, in particular because of the sensitivity of the data that such parties to the procedure as third parties may provide to the Office on a possible infringement, which is why they would not want to be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Stana Pajk will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u14	Your Honor! We have before us a decision on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition. Let us take a brief look at the content of the proposed amendments and the additions. When companies conclude agreements aimed at preventing, obstructing or distorting competition on the market, we are talking about a time limit for limiting competition. This is an abuse of the dominant position on the market, which results in a significant reduction or distortion of competition. The application of the provisions of that Act shall be supervised by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which is composed of the Ministry of Economy. The Office shall monitor, analyse the situation on the market and intervene if the standards for development are fair and free of competition. The Office shall be a criminal body and shall be independent and independent in the performance of its tasks. The most important objectives of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law are: to ensure effective sanctioning of competitive infringements as defined in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community; to ensure that those abuses in which the illegal situation is maintained, the offence is defined as a permanent offence, the limitation period begins to run with the cessation of the illegal situation; toleration of the file, the parties to the proceedings have the right to look into the file; to be able to take responsibility for the offence also by individuals who carry out the activity on their own; tolar changes in euro amounts. We support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at 16.40. I hereby interrupt this point and thank the Minister for his participation. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on Registration in Road Transport. We also have 40 minutes available for this point, and we also deal with it in the short term. The bill was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration this time, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Christmas, welcome to the National Assembly! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u16	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to briefly explain the content of the proposed law. For consideration, we are submitting a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. This is an important law governing the driving, rest and rest time of drivers in conjunction with the rules of the European Union. At the level of the European Union, regulations in this area are often changing and our law needs to be amended. This amendment of the law is necessary because of Regulation 561/2006 and Directive 2006/22. The draft law lays down rules to be respected by drivers of vehicles carrying groups of children and rules for drivers of vehicles transporting passengers in line transport up to 50 kilometres in terms of driving times, holidays, rest periods and working hours. The legislation also lays down exceptions to certain types of transport, such as transport by vehicles used to maintain sewerage, water, gas and electricity supply, road maintenance and control, and other exceptions to the new regulation. The following is the legal basis for issuing a certificate, which is prescribed under the new Directive. This certificate will make it easier for the driver to prove his absence in cases of annual leave or illness or when he has driven a vehicle exempted from the scope of the new Regulation. The following amendment concerns the establishment of a single record of tachographs in the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, which will be linked to tachograph workshops. The draft law also allows the Minister to prescribe a training programme adapted to the needs of tachograph technicians and supervisory authorities. In addition, it will be possible to issue a supervisory card to other competent authorities empowered to carry out tachograph surveillance. It further allows the establishment of risk assessment systems for enterprises to be established in accordance with the provisions of the new Directive. This system will allow for a more systematic system of control over transport companies, where those who are more likely to violate transport and social legislation will be exposed. This amendment of the law also adapts criminal provisions in conjunction with the new regulation and the amounts of fines that have been expressed in tolars are laid down in euro. However, in the transitional provisions, the draft law provides for a temporary arrangement concerning the professional competence of technicians and supervisory authorities until a training programme is prescribed and lays down deadlines for the transfer of data to the record of tachographs. So much for me in the introductory part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Josip Bajc, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u18	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with Fellow Workers, distinguished young visitors to the National Assembly, colleague and colleague. At its 20th meeting, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers, as well as recording equipment in road transport, which was transmitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure, together with a proposal to deal with the proposed law following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposed law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly and the representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia participated. The drafter presented the objectives, principles and main solutions of the draft law necessary to implement the new European Union rules relating to social legislation on the basis of changes relating to the transport of a group of children and the rules to be followed by drivers carrying a group of children in road transport. The proposal also regulates the rules for drivers on bus lines up to 50 kilometres away and the exceptions to the provisions of the Regulation of the European Union. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made specific comments on Articles 3, 4, 7, 11, 13, 14 and 22 of the proposed law relating to individual proposed solutions. The Commission of the Economic Council of the State supports the proposal of the law. The Transport Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled. In the debate, the members of the Committee questioned the difficulty of legal matter in view of the fact that the proposed amendments and additions to the draft law refer to directives and regulations of the European Union and the content of these acts is not summarised in the draft law. However, the members of the Committee felt that the adoption of the bill was necessary in view of the harmonisation and necessary coordination of legislation, our domestic legislation, European Union legislation. The Transport Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 4, 7, 9, 13 and 14 of the Act by SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS. In view of this, the Transport Committee has also adopted an amendment to the amendment to Article 4 to the amendment to Article 4, as stated in Article 4, to add the word "Article 3" in Article 3a, is in fact a renumbering of the article. The Committee on Transport then voted after the discussion on the articles of the draft law and after the discussion and vote on the amendments tabled and the amendment of the Committee, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on all the articles of the draft law and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary proposal for a law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and recording equipment in road transport is prepared and is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Comrade Bajc, please continue and give your position to the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u20	All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law, given that it is a matter of implementing European rules into our legislation. The bill also adapts the criminal provisions of the basic law to the new regulation. It also transforms tolars into euros, given that from 1.1. our national currency is our euro. In view of the above, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will open the amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I would like to invite my colleague Ivan Yelen to make a statement on the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! If we want to follow the objectives of the European Commission, which seeks to ensure full legislation in the European Union in the internal market to improve the working conditions of mobile workers and road safety, we need to ensure at national level that the rules are harmonised and effective. European legislation has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The need to comply with European Union road transport rules and related social legislation dictates the recast of the law. The news presented by the proposal is the rules for transporting the group of children and for line transport up to 50 km. These drivers are subject to the obligation to comply with all those rules regarding driving time, rest periods and rest that mobile workers must respect and thus equalise their position. We also believe that this means, at the same time, a contribution to greater road safety. We note that at least part of the introduction of mandatory certificates of absence of a driver due to, for example, the hospital stock or the use of leave in a single European form will contribute to the elimination of various ways of speculation over working hours of drivers. Since it has proposed the establishment of a single record of tachographs at the national level, i.e. in the Roads Directive, it is also necessary to ensure a systematic exchange of information between the supervisory authority and the workshop, which is possible in the proposal by requiring the workshop to have an electronic information link with the tachograph record. We agree that the provision of workshops services needs to be simplified, that adequate control and supervision of work needs to be introduced, while the work of workshops will also be facilitated by the introduction of a single record of tachographs in the Workshop Directive partially burdening the management of their records of the tasks performed. Poor implementation of the rules and insufficient supervision of the implementation of road transport and social legislation are the reasons for the implementation of joint coordinated control actions by our competent authorities in cooperation with the competent authorities of two or more Member States. More effective control of transport companies already known or found to be the most frequent infringement of the rules is also provided for by the establishment of a risk assessment system. Companies with a high risk assessment will be checked more frequently and more precisely. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are mainly referred to by the directives laid down in the EU Regulation, but the content of these acts is not summarised. This leads to the difficulty of marital matter, and we wonder to what extent it can be conquered by those who are destined and who will have to respect it, regardless of their understanding. Otherwise, in our Group of Members, we support the amendment in the expectation that road transport is developing positively in terms of the overall strengthening of transport safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Comrade Bojan Rugelj will give the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice greeting to all present in Parliament and also a pleasant feeling, especially to the minister with his team. The purpose of the amendment of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport is to amend the law as a result of the new European rules relating to social legislation. This is Directive 2006/22 of the European Community and Regulation 561/2006 of the European Community. The law regulates the transport of a group of children, namely rules to be followed by drivers carrying groups of children. The national rules for drivers of buses up to 50 kilometres are laid down in more detail. In the Republic of Slovenia, it has been decided that those drivers are subject to those rules as mobile workers and the legal basis for the specific EU Commission form is given. Complementing the existing law will form the basis for establishing a harmonised record of tachographs. In addition, effective monitoring of workshops will be possible to monitor the status of workshops performed in relation to tachographs and speed limitation devices. By establishing a uniform record of tachographs at the national level, the Republic of Slovenia will have data on vehicles equipped with tachographs and involved in carrying out the transport of goods and persons in which social legislation is required for mobile workers. The bill will also allow the Minister responsible for transport to prescribe a training programme for workshops and supervisory authorities, which will contribute to the professional work of technicians in workshops and to better quality and more coordinated supervision in the Republic of Slovenia. The supervisory authorities will need to periodically carry out coordinated control actions with the competent authorities of two or more EU Member States, which will contribute to more effective supervision of the provisions of social legislation. However, the proposal also allows the establishment of an electronic data exchange system to satisfy the provision of Article 8, paragraph 2, of Directive 2006/22 of the European Community. In addition, a legal basis is laid for the establishment of a risk assessment system for businesses. The bill also adapts the penal provisions of the basic law, according to the provisions of the new regulation, and the amounts of fines expressed in tolars are laid down in euro by means of a proposal for a law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will fully support the proposed amendment to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and recording equipment in road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you, too. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats! Apparently, new European Union rules often occur in this area, as we have seen very often in recent periods amendments to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The novelty before us today has very important provisions concerning the transport of a group of children and the rules to be followed by drivers carrying groups of children. The exception provided by the rules of the European Union applies to rules for drivers on bus lines up to 50 kilometres. Otherwise, we have probably cleared these issues well on the committee, for there was some confusion about the content of the law itself, whether these rules would really be the same, up to 50 kilometers away, for a longer distance. Well, and after improving the text it is evident that the rules should be the same, both for transport up to and above 50 kilometres. At the same time, however, we should ask ourselves in parallel where the public transport of passengers in Slovenia is actually going. This is a very topical issue, which is also part of this law. It also certainly concerns the question of what will be the issue with concessionaires in public passenger transport that the period of the concessions granted expires, and it will certainly be necessary to decide in a very short time whether we will continue to grant concessions or whether we will try to organise a public passenger control agency and thus try to carry out a so-called single ticket or a single ticket project. To this end, a transport policy has already been adopted in this mandate and should, in fact, be followed by systemic measures that will help to relieve transport and, in particular, improve safety, and consequently, measures that will have a positive impact on the environment should be present. In short, while we are talking about working hours and mandatory vacations for mobile workers, we must not forget the important fact that the concessionaire status is definitively regulated and that the implementation of the transport policy will proceed as soon as possible, so that transport security in Slovenia will be as much as possible. Otherwise, we note that the new form of electronic tachographs, which we are also introducing by this law, allows better quality control of line transport and will certainly greatly help us to obtain in the future clearer proposals for amendments to this law than it has been so far, which will certainly be one of the most important positive effects of this law. So in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support this law or these changes and additions and, as I said, we want to be even clearer in this area in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you, too. My colleague, Jožef Horvat, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Members and Members of Parliament, Minister Janez Bozič, with his fellow Members. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recasts and supplements the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport due to the Regulation and Directive of the European Union. This is certainly an important law governing driving times, rest periods and rest periods for drivers, in accordance with the rules of the European Union. At the level of the European Union, regulations in this area are often changing and our legislation, in particular our law, needs to be amended. And if this is also a minimal contribution to increasing road safety, then of course we support this in New Slovenia. The proposal for a new bill redefines rules to be followed and respected by drivers of vehicles carrying groups of children and rules for drivers of vehicles carrying passengers in line transport up to 50 kilometres. Exceptions are laid down for certain types of transport, e.g. transport by vehicles used to maintain sewerage, water, gas and electricity supply, as well as other exemptions from the new Regulation. This bill provides a legal basis for a new form of the European Commission, which will make it easier for the driver to prove his absence in cases of annual leave or illness. In addition, it is possible to establish a single record of tachographs in the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, which will be linked to tachograph workshops. However, a further amendment will allow the Minister to prescribe a training programme adapted to the needs of tachograph technicians and supervisory authorities. The issuing of the supervisory card to other competent authorities empowered to carry out tachograph surveillance will also be possible. It further allows the establishment of a risk assessment system for enterprises to be established in accordance with the provisions of the new Directive. This system will allow for more systematic and effective supervision of transport companies, where the most frequent infringements of transport and social legislation will be exposed. Just because changes to the law relate to rules to be followed by drivers of vehicles carrying children, in the New Slovenia Group we support the proposal of the law. The search for legal solutions to increase road safety is permanent, that is, never a complete process and the legislator's exceptional responsibility. Just these days, the World Health Organization warns us that 1 million 200,000 people die each year in traffic accidents on our planet. And what is particularly worrying is that in the age group between 15 and 19, accidents are the most common cause of death. In most of the negative statistics of fatal accidents, Slovenia, unfortunately, is at the top of the world and European charts. I conclude with the expression of support on behalf of the New Slovenia Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is also not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today within the framework of the vote item, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or no later than 16:00 and 40 minutes. I thank the Minister and the other representatives of the Government for their participation. And with that, I'm breaking this agenda. And we're moving on to 6. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on private protection. As we say, we have 4 hours and 20 minutes for that point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and, in relation to this law, a group of 13 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr. Miran Porč requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the introduction text to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u30	Hello! Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Act on Private Protection was adopted in November 2003 with effect from 2 January 2004. In the implementation of this law, now in force, it has proved in practice that some legal provisions are too loose to allow for different interpretations. Such different interpretations were mainly demonstrated at the end of a two-year transitional period in which private security companies had to obtain appropriate licences. On the basis of experience with the implementation of the Law on Private Protection and the irregularities found, the Ministry of the Interior decided to propose amendments and to supplement the law. The internal ministry also took into account the changes, comments and complaints made by private security companies on the preparation of amendments and the amendment of the law. The Private Protection Chamber was also invited to prepare for the preparation all the time from draft to draft legislation. The proposal therefore lays down, in accordance with the principle of the rule of law, the principle of certainty and verifiability has been implemented and lays down more precisely the conditions for obtaining and withdrawing licences, service cards and inspection measures. Instead of compulsory membership, the proposal for amendments and additions provides for voluntary association in the Chamber. The proposed amendments also bring some benefits. It foresees that the official identity card of the security personnel will be distributed to the person and not to the private security company anymore. This will also cost, inter alia, the issue of business cards and reduce the burden of the internal ministry issuing official cards. The main objective of the amendments and the completion of the Private Protection Act is to ensure that companies dealing with private protection are able to meet the conditions for quality protection with qualified persons. The most important thing is to ensure the safety of users of security services by means of changes and additions and to prevent, to the greatest extent possible, unlawful interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons who come in contact with security personnel in one way or another. The Ministry of the Interior carried out supervision of the exercise of public powers, i.e. training, in 2006 until 2007, on the basis of complaints from private security companies. We have found that the Chamber did not fully respect certain provisions of the rules on the exercise of public powers in the field of private protection, in particular in the segments setting out responsible persons for training, the time limits for application, the issuing of certificates and so on, which is why we believe that these are already sufficiently justified reasons for the withdrawal of public powers. The Law on Private Protection provides for measures to be taken by security guards to carry out the task successfully. Despite the criticisms of the proposed amendments that these measures are the right and duty of every citizen, I believe they nevertheless allow for interference with the constitutionally protected rights of others, and therefore the basic reason for the transfer of training organisations to the Police Academy is that training will be more professional and, at the same time, will prevent the privilege of individual companies for private protection. The Police Academy will select operators with appropriate education and specific expertise and will also include private security professionals, which is extremely important. Currently, only a small part of the operators are trained and some have never been invited to perform training despite their high skills. The Chamber will continue to be able to take care of the expertise and development of the industry, in particular by participating in the process of preparing catalogues of skills and training programmes, but will also be able to organise optional training. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on private protection, which is before you today, honourable Members and Members, is entirely in line with the field of training and certification of national professional qualifications. Even within the European Union, we have been dealing with such a regulation, and I must say that we are actually "unicum" in this area in Slovenia. The solutions proposed in our firm belief lead to greater expertise, and the confidence of the parties will not be affected by the place of training, i.e. by the police academy, but mainly by the professional and legal work of security personnel in respect of human rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u32	Your Honors are here! According to my assessment, the representative of the Government gave me an introductory explanation of the above-mentioned law, but he clearly gave those who hear themselves very well through one ear. Firstly, the establishment of a high-quality system of professional training and training of security personnel, and secondly, to ensure a higher level of quality of security services. This was the two starting points or two that the speaker pointed out before me in connection with the law that we last passed in 2003, which came into force in 2004. Let me first point out from this place at least after my assessment of the things that have been silenced by the government's representative. Firstly, within the framework of the European Union, that is to say, those institutions which we usually follow under all laws, legislative procedures, and where there is no argument as to why the adoption of this law by the Government dictates or places a decision on Members and Members this time. Why is this not an appeal or why there is no comparison by this institution - because of this, of course, we do not follow the European legal order in this area. Even more, a European association in this field [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] gave a completely different view on the proposal of the law, as demonstrated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry mentioned. [[...]] It follows from the contents of their letter that this law, which is before us today, causes or weighs exclusively in one matter, is the expansion of the police or the increase of the police coverage in that area. That is, we will see or see if you have examined the law. Secondly, the representative of the Government pointed out that representatives of the Chamber were also invited to the amendment of the law. True, the terminology of Slovenian allows a person or a speaker to hide behind his own words. One of course means an invitation, the other means cooperation, and the third means whether or not the observations of that institution have been taken into account. And with certainty we can say, no, they weren't taken into account. So, sneezing and boasting about what the government representative said before me, that someone has been invited, of course, does not mean that they have taken into account the professional opinions of those who have carried out this activity or have done it, and I hope that they will continue to do so. The representative of the Government has also skillfully avoided the relationship of the above mentioned legal novel with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act. Why? Because, within the Ministry, they are concerned that, if this law is adopted, it will be adopted under the auspices of the political affiliations of the ruling parties. But whether or not the law will be adopted or not, which I hope will not, we can say that we will also meet the fourth parliamentary procedure under this law, that is, by re-decision, because - in my opinion - this should happen - an appeal or, rather, a veto of the State Council. Allow me, however, to point out a few substantive points that I cannot and that I personally appreciate that it would be wise to consider before deciding on this law all those who have a voting right. The institution in question, i.e. the institution of the Chamber called - that is, the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection this year, April 2007, called on the Institute of Public Administration and obtained a legal opinion on the law before us today, on the law of which the Ministry sings and speaks so much praise. From this legal point of view, I stress that independent lawyers have little say that the law is totally unacceptable. Not only unacceptable for parliamentary treatment, but it should be unacceptable for government procedure alone. From this title, of course, I feel it and, on the one hand, it can prove or point to a deficit within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, we are reminded by legal experts, experts in the Constitution of Slovenia and experts in Slovenian legislation, that in the current article 41, I quote, "The Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection must submit all the documentation to the Ministry of the Interior." But of course, the minister or I apologize, the government representative said nothing about it. Therefore, the Institute, acting under the 2003 Act, will have to submit all the documentation for this period on the basis of the previous law and on the basis of the amendment or more specifically, Article 41(2). But all of a sudden, the government doesn't have to worry about it anymore. However, if we look at other transfers of documentation that are coming back on schedule, we see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through all ministries, marks the transfer of documentation as being unimaginable, as an intervention, at least one, of previous authorities to this authority or vice versa. And what is extremely important about this is the act of Article 8 when this law is being considered, at least in my opinion. In Article 8, the Ministry shall take all the right to education, to supplement, to train staff for economic activity, i.e. for individual security agencies. And I emphasize the first paragraph. The Ministry is expected to take up new work carried out so far by an agency in cooperation with the Chamber: First, preparation and implementation of programmes. Secondly, it provides personnel, material and spatial conditions and equipment for implementation. Thirdly, it keeps records, further prepares catalogues of standards, proposes members and similar things. At the same time, it has forgotten the most important fact that, when the whole range of activities is listed, it is also appropriate to define the financing of this activity. But perhaps it is not enough to consider that we see that all this has been taken by the police or the Ministry of the Interior, but it has not taken on funding, of course. So someone else is going to fund it, and that's just not right. At the same time, at least after my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the hypocrisy of the Slovenian Government is taking account of the fact that a good part of the activity referred to in Article 8 of Education has been financed by the European Union through social funds, and there has been no burden on it so far. Now the government comes up with a new bill saying that she will do it, that the chamber or agency should pay, but, ladies and gentlemen, you are doing nothing but a deficit to the state. Regardless of who the payer will be, we have previously obtained funding from the European Social Fund for these activities, and this option is being seized today. And of course, in doing so, at least in my opinion, it is concrete to ask - who works for the good of the country? Is the transfer of documentation that the Ministry of the Interior will, of course, acquire more than total funding, more than anything else? Is that really the sole purpose of the law? Not to mention the following things that are, of course, coming up and are, at least from my point of view, completely inappropriate, but set forth by a new bill, which, of course, was praised by the speaker before me for representing the sun and I do not know what else for the future Slovenian nation. For the first time, after the news, they will have to change all security services, i.e. labels, badges, whatever, and only the number and the MNZ will write them. So it will not even be known which security guard, from which office and who his employer are, will approach the individual in the event of his protection. At least so far the employer's address has been known, and that was also some kind of protection. What's new? Following a new transmission of the entire dossier, avoiding the payment made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of the Interior or by the police to third parties, it will also avoid seeing who is the employer without authorisation. Furthermore, I will not be too far removed from the legal opinion of the Institute of Public Administration, which is fully and completely, completely and consistently, by criticising the above-mentioned legal text, which is before us today, which is being prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. I will quote, at least in my opinion, the most important emphasis on this professional legal opinion. For the first time, completely or entirely, I apologize: 'the so-called core articles give a clear picture of the inadmissibility of all proposed amendments', in particular the explanations drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior to Articles 2, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. Further notes, I am speaking now for the whole law or for the content of the law in its entirety, as the full conditions for the exercise of this purely private activity binds to the country. And what's worse is the Ministry of the Interior. So, so far, the existing economic activity, ladies and gentlemen, that is, the activity that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia represents to us every day, when they speak, as something sacred, as the withdrawal of the state or government, or the country, however you wish, from the country, from the economy, that this is the fundamental objective of Janez Janša's policy, we have a concrete opposite case today. The existing economic activity will be transferred free of charge and at the expense of employers or operators of this economic activity by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But not only an activity in the future, gentlemen and ladies, but also a backward activity, the transfer of the documentation referred to in Article 8 of the Act. In the framework of the Institute of Public Administration, where the opinion I am reading follows, "such support for the education, completion and training of security personnel is not only contrary to the proposal itself, which provides for the establishment of a private economic activity in the field of private protection, but is contrary to even the official policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Community, whereby the country is to withdraw from the economy to the extent possible." So, once again, the ministry or the contractor of the material in one part of the law is talking about the need to consolidate the situation of private economic activity and, on the other hand, through the content of the articles, it is moving this consolidation and transferring it to the police or the Ministry of the Interior. The Institute further notes that this amendment of the law or the proposal of the law is contrary to the current constitutional regulation, since it takes the economy a free initiative and intervenes in the basic grounds that the Republic of Slovenia is a rule of law. In addition, the Chamber takes up one of its most important tasks, which is of paramount importance for private protection development. This is the autonomy that the works referred to in Article 8 of the present Article 8 may have been carried out. But this work now involves the ministry, the police, the government. These comments are still on several pages. I believe that you have obtained these comments in the framework of your normal work, that is, within the framework of the institution of the Member, the Member has all obtained them. However, the fact is that the law before us today is an exclusive intervention in the maintenance of this system. Comments which came from the Chamber in principle, but unfortunately, as I said at the outset, were not taken into account, comments made by KOSE [[?]] , that is to say, the institutions or associations within Europe to the Ministry have not been taken into account. In those comments, if taken into account, there would be the fact that the protection activity can only be carried out by licensing companies, but there is no spirit or hearing about it. And because I know that sooner or later, perhaps at the end of today's explanation, the Secretary of State has also provided poor experience with some security companies, and I do not want to recall the events in Lipa where Enigma Bagarič carried out protection. But let me tell you, this company didn't even have a license from the chamber. And if the legislator or the executive branch of the authority wanted to do something about security, then they would have prescribed a compulsory licence. And something remains in the minds of individuals. Let it be in the minds of individuals, but unfortunately with the law we will be very difficult to influence, it is not to hire someone who is without a license and who is the cheapest in the market. Therefore, in my opinion or in my opinion, it would be reasonable to amend the provisions or laws referred to above, in particular, to listen to experts in this area and not to listen to individual lobbyists who influence the Ministry and Government in this area and try, for the first time, to obtain all the documentation and believe this documentation is not as simple as it will be in the future debate, as the Ministry representatives will try to present it to us. And lastly, ladies and gentlemen, bear in mind at least why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia always says, under any other law, 'We must adopt the law for the sake of the European Union', it will be because of the regulation, the directive, whatever, but this is the main argument as usual. We always hear a representative of the government, let him be the Minister, the Secretary of State, that this and this regulation dictates this and that Slovenia commits itself to changing the rule of law by entering European integration. This is always the argument of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, today no, the argument coming from the institutions of the European Union is even different; "not to adopt this law". But, as I said, this is only an argument from the European Union or institutions within the European Community. Personally, I believe that the Group of the Slovenian National Party is also to have, within our country in the field of protection, services which would not allow such education, such training, which would not allow events from the Bank's SKB that would not allow the event from Lipa, but unfortunately with this amendment of the law we will not achieve this, gentlemen, even vice versa, this law seeks to pursue purely other partial political interests and does not pursue those objectives. Allow me to conclude by putting forward my views or minimum requirements and recommendations for bank protection and banking, issued by the Association of Banks of Slovenia. These recommendations issued in the booklet include even the measures proposed by the Chamber to the Ministry in the preparation of the amendment of the law and, of course, if they were taken into account, then the anomaly or the saving of financial resources at the expense of various agencies would not take place, as was the case in the case of the Bank’s SKB, where, of course, some security guards from the past have been linked to a company without a licence and supervised. We should follow a completely different policy of protection, namely a policy which, in essence and content, would seek only one better security. Not to look through profit or not to look through financial means or not to look through a detective agency, which is the purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under that law. As I have already said, we will not support the Slovenian National Party of the said law in the Group of Members today, which is under consideration. We sincerely hope that the other Members will also listen to the content of the comments of the Legal Institute, the Association of Banks of Slovenia, not least of all the KoES, and we will give the Ministry or the Government the opportunity to re-examine the law that will follow only one objective, that is to improve the quality of protection. And that he will not pursue the other objectives that he has pursued under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u34	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group does not oppose the law in principle. We believe that, after a year of implementation of the existing law in this area, there has been a situation in which there has been a need to correct, finalize or amend a matter. However, I must say that we find it more difficult to understand solutions that are not comparable to the European Union's solutions in this area, which mean limiting the economic initiative, which means extending powers, for example, to detectives, to solutions that mean abolishing economic society and competition, completely subjugating the economic society of police activities, introducing a new police subsystem, one in the law that talks about public order and peace, the red tape, the municipal government, so that we are large sceptics about these solutions, as long as we subtract the views of the Private Protection Chamber with which we have conducted the talks. We will also conduct interviews with the police academy on possible training, also examine these solutions in detail and request further arguments from the Ministry of the Interior, only then could the Government expect the support of our parliamentary group for the further adoption of this law. By thinking that, in the fact that the Institute is also strong in the principles of the proposed solution, there is certainly a need for a new reflection on only these. In my opinion, a number of solutions will have to be withdrawn so that our Group of Members can give their consent to the law. But we will certainly support, for example, a solution that means free integration into the Private Protection Chamber, certainly also the possibility of training those workers working in this area, including at the police academy, but not only by training these people there, given that they have adequate skills from a system that is already functioning, which is good and internationally comparable. So basically, I have to say that many solutions are unacceptable to us. However, because some of the contents and solutions are just what the law would show support for, but we do not reject the law. Of course, we expect that there will be substantial changes and reductions in the proposed solutions in this direction, as we have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec has the floor, on behalf of the national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! The current Law on Private Protection is a regulation that aims to ensure that the private protection area is regulated both for the benefit of users of security services and operators. However, some of its provisions are too loose, allowing for different interpretations adapted to the individual’s present needs. Therefore, the provisions of the law in accordance with the principle of the rule of law and the principles of certainty and predictability derived therefrom, and to avoid different legal interpretations, should be more precisely defined and laid down. Thus, the provisions of the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law make it largely impossible to interpret different interpretations. On the basis of amendments and amendments to the law, the Ministry of the Interior will take over from the holder of public powers the tasks entrusted by the Law on Private Protection as a public authority by the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection. This will be done only by those economic operators that comply with all the requirements of the law. Economic operators performing on the security services market as providers will have to meet the required conditions in an indisputable manner, which will consequently mean that they are allowed to engage in such specific activities and will be able to provide a high level of security for the contracting authorities. This will be reflected in the licence document given to the licence holder by the Ministry of the Interior together with it. The most important thing is to ensure security for users of security services, and let us hope that Lipa does not repeat itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you, too. The position of the SDS Group will be given by Mr Dimitrij Kovačič, a fellow Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u38	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives. In the Group of Members, we note that certain adjustments are needed in the current state of private protection and we therefore support the Government's intention to remedy certain shortcomings in the current arrangements that have been shown in practice in this area. The essence of private security is the protection of persons, the protection of property, the protection of public collections, transport, the protection of money and other valuable shipments, the management of the security control centre and final planning and the implementation of security systems. Such protection shall be carried out by private economic undertakings which are competent and have an appropriate licence to do so. This is therefore an economic activity, which cannot be left to self-regulation because of its specificity, but the State by law prescribes the conditions under which economic operators may carry out this activity and those who fulfil such conditions also grant an appropriate licence on the basis of which they may carry out the private security activity. For this reason, the State must, of course, exercise adequate control over the performance of this private security activity and in the event that the exercise of a private security activity does not take place in accordance with the rules, or if the entity no longer fulfils the conditions laid down, it may also withdraw the licence. As far as this is concerned, there are probably no different views or concerns, mainly the concerns that we have heard today relate to the completion and training of personnel. So this is one of the segments of this law, and so just by saying that the marriage is poorly prepared, I don't think it's right. However, as far as this area is concerned, we have certain concerns about how this is now envisaged in this proposal and in this regard we will also propose appropriate amendments or appropriate amendments, if necessary. However, it would not be good if the law at this stage did not go into further proceedings. The completion and training of individuals or individual private security providers should be based on a uniform concept of quality training of security-providing entities. Such training cannot, therefore, be freely left to individual operators of this type of economic activity, nor can their interest chamber. The single concept must be provided by the State, which, in our view, does not mean that only the State or the Ministry of the Interior, through its educational institution, namely the Police Academy, can actually carry out such training. This, of course, is not true in our view. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we advocate an open training system whereby this type of security training can be provided by anyone who is professionally qualified to do so and meets other necessary conditions. Thus, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, such training may be provided by the Private Protection Chamber or by any other relevant competent institution. Therefore, in addition to the Ministry of the Interior or its Police Academy, they should be able to carry out training activities in the field of which we are talking, including other qualified entities. Since the Ministry of the Interior exercises control over the activity of private protection, it is also right for the Ministry to decide which of the potential training providers fulfils the appropriate conditions for the implementation of the uniform concept, quality replenishment or training of personnel and also grants the relevant licence or authorisation in this area. In this respect, the proposed regime, which allows only the Police Academy to implement training programmes, seems too narrow and here we want to open the door to other stakeholders who are qualified to do so. In view of their supervisory role, their competence should be assessed by the Ministry of the Interior, which shall also issue an appropriate permit in case of competence. In this respect, we will propose an appropriate change in the Group of Members, as has already been said. At this stage, we will certainly support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you, too. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats proposed that a general debate be held on the proposal for a law. It considers that the proposed changes and additions constitute an important intervention in the activity and organisation of private security as sensitive, but for the protection of people and property extremely important economic activities, which in many cases is also a condition for the smooth performance of the economic functions of other business entities, to an increasing extent also of citizens and citizens. Especially since it considers that, for the proposed important amendments and additions, and for the reasons for the adoption of the law, and even less in the objectives and explanations of the proposed amendments, there are no valid reasons or, most of the time, they are completely omitted. If the bill's proposal is so irresponsible, we cannot treat Members and Members equally irresponsibly. We need to provide a basis for quality and responsible decision-making, which will not be possible only in the second reading of the law. We therefore proposed a general debate on the law on the basis of the opinions and materials transmitted to us by the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection. Our request does not mean that we are already in the process of identifying ourselves as one or another solution. However, it means that we are asking the bill's proponents to explain each proposed solution in a professionally comprehensive and reasoned manner. He hasn't done it yet. On the contrary, an introduced law can be an example of how a marriage cannot be prepared. And if the National Assembly were to be able to carry out its legislative function in a responsible manner, it should, irrespective of the membership of Members of the coalition or opposition, reject the text of the law already in order to harmonise the individual proposals of the text of the draft law, which would only allow Members and Members to assess the appropriateness of the proposed content. The Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection is most opposed to the proposals that the system of training and completion fully withdraws the Chamber and transmits it to the Ministry of the Interior. In doing so, the chamber does not defend its monopoly. It objects, however, to the unilateral withdrawal of all forms of training and completion, without any valid reasons being stated in the law, after having taken over these functions only by law of 2003 and having started to fully implement them a good year ago. When we look for a proposal for a law where the applicant sees and reasons for such a decision, all we can find is the text that the proposer wants to introduce a uniform concept of quality training for all security providers, possibly thinking of police officers, editors under the Law on the Red tape and security workers under the Law on Private Protection. In doing so, the applicant ignores the fact that the first two are public service management and the latter is economic activity. And that is the essence of the question on which the Chamber asked for the expert opinion of the Institute of Public Administration. The Institute wrote, quote: "This support for the education, completion and training of security personnel is not only contrary to the proposal itself, which provides for the consolidation of the situation of private economic activity in the field of private protection, but is contrary to the entire official policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the EU, by which the country is to withdraw from the economy as far as possible. The proposal for amendments is therefore unacceptable with regard to the setting up of conditions for the implementation of activities and the completion and training of security personnel, in view of the opposition to official policy, and at the same time contrary to the constitutional arrangements in force, since the economy takes a free initiative and intervenes at the basic level that the Republic of Slovenia is a rule of law. By proposing to take over the upgrading and training of security personnel from the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection to the Police Academy or to the Ministry of the Interior, the Chamber shall, in contrast to other economic areas, take up one of its most important tasks, which is of paramount importance for private protection development. In carrying out the exercise itself, the proposer also fully disregards the fact that for this task the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection is registered." To this end, a quote from the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Administration, which critically critically assesses the proposed changes to the law and considers them to be contrary to our legislation to a certain extent. In doing so, it is intended to show that the proposed text is not acceptable that we also quote that part of the bill's proposal, which, among the objectives, principles and main solutions, states that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law do not deviate from the objectives and principles of the legislation in force and constitute a continuation of the practice so far. Thus, the fundamental change in the concept is for the proposer to continue the practice so far. The fundamental objective pursued by the proposed amendments is to eliminate certain areas of law that have proved to be under-defined and consequently unclear for users as well as for security service providers. These are general findings from the law, which are not concrete in any single word. I think that, despite the fact that this is a government and a ministry, it is not possible to assess certain social relations and propose changes to laws. In other words, the legislator, as the second main objective of the bill, does stress the quality of the system of professional training and training of security personnel and the verification of competence, but does not say with a word what the current system has been weak and in what way the new one will be better. The most important questions that we want to assess and get the answers we need, which the current text does not even indicate, but only to justify them, are the following. For the first time, after one year of implementation of the system of training and completion, it has proved unacceptable that this system needs to be radically changed. If the legislator were to be corrected, a study would be required for this situation, a concrete assessment would be needed, the errors identified so far and would propose amendments on this basis. Secondly, we want to determine whether the proposed system takes into account that private protection is an economic activity that cannot be equated and treated in the same way as public service and public tasks of public authorities. And if we evaluate the content of the proposed amendments to the law, it is not irrelevant that the proposed amendments change the entire status of the Chamber, which would no longer be a legal person of public law in view of the deletion of the second paragraph of Article 6 and the amendment of Article 12, and would no longer have public powers, as a result of the deletion of Article 8 of the mandatory membership, and because of the deletion of Articles 10 and 11, the Act would no longer regulate the content of the statute of the Chamber and the means for its operation. We reiterate that such solutions are also possible, perhaps even more consistent with the nature of private protection as economic activities, to get closer to the new situation of the Chamber of Commerce and the like. But these changes, too, are not reasoned and contradictory to previous ones. On the one hand, equating with national authorities as regards education and, on the other hand, establishing a voluntary chamber, without any legal powers or powers. Therefore, in the case of such systematic and substantive interventions, it is legal to state that the proposed amendments and additions do not deviate from the principles and objectives of the legislation in force, to say the least, from the grave deceiving which the applicant should not afford. On the contrary, such important changes in the law should be highlighted and explained and should be discussed in depth, as there are still more chambers that require serious reflection on their organisation and functioning. These warnings, in our view, are sufficient to assess that the proposed law has not matured for a second reading, as it cannot be easily corrected by the amendment. It's only right to add two more. With regard to the content of the law, which is not usually the case, there were many different views in the government procedure. Three ministries have come forward with very serious comments of principled nature, but the bill does not take them into account. And, as is unfortunately the case more and more frequently, the Private Protection Chamber also claims that the drafting of the text of the law in a significant part has resulted in a substantive exclusion. It argues that there was little possibility for the drafting of the law to enforce its views, but above all it is essential that the Chamber put forward several compromise proposals, especially for the regulation of the training system, and that the Government has not accepted them. Therefore, it argues that it is also an incorrect claim that the Chamber merely insisted on existing arrangements. In particular, the Chamber does not object to the provision of professional training to security personnel by another qualified institution, but strongly opposes the fact that the implementation of these tasks, which are crucial to the development of the profession and the important systemic issue of the situation of protection as an economic activity, is fully withdrawn and entrusted to the police. I expect it to be too optimistic that the government and the government coalition will understand the essence of our comments. We doubt that the substance of these comments can be resolved in today's debate, so it seems to me that it would be responsible for the Government and for us in the National Assembly, that if this cannot be done, we find that it is such an important activity, an activity for the people they are carrying out, an activity for the economy, an activity for citizens and citizens that cannot be carried out with their left hand on the basis of certain flat-rate claims in the proposals, but that the issue requires a serious assessment of how to find really good solutions - and these good solutions will not only be possible with amendments, so I think it will be necessary to find that the law is not suitable for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments to the Private Protection Act are, in the view of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, totally non-European and are implementing the concept that private protection will become a police subsystem for us. The proposal for these amendments provides that the police will exclusively, i.e. monopolistically, implement the full training of security personnel and all procedures for obtaining national professional qualifications in this field, and will even be the exclusive proposer of all new or complementary national professional qualifications. After these changes, the profession will no longer have any opportunity for its own development. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that this is an impromptu "ad hoc" solution to the problem at the Police Academy, which occurred at the end of last year due to the lack of candidates and appropriate programmes, because radical changes can be fatal to the private protection sector if adopted, they apply after only one year of implementation of the existing law. The reasons and objectives set out for the adoption of this law are unclear and intransparency, so when we read the proposal for the amendment of the law, we have a number of concerns and questions that we do not find the right answers to. As a fundamental consideration, we are asking whether the proposal is just another amendment necessary to strengthen the police state, which we can also monitor on the basis of other adopted legislative texts or measures taken by the current authorities. The only difference between the current and the proposed arrangements that we have been able to find in the LDS Club are only other places where education, training and completion are to take place, so this will be the premises of the police academy, as well as obtaining money from education in another pocket. We are therefore wondering whether the Ministry of the Interior can provide us with any other substantive change brought about by the amendment of the law. We are also wondering what the Ministry of the Interior is even making clear to the Private Protection Chamber regarding the training and training of security personnel. Training at the Private Protection Chamber has been ongoing for 12 years and has established an overall training system, standards, national professional qualifications and so on. Instructors and lecturers are confirmed by the Ministry of the Interior. These are doctors, masters of science, lecturers from the university and employees of the Ministry of the Interior. Speakers shall carry out training and replenishment under a programme also approved by the Ministry. It is therefore quite clear that all education programmes, as well as the performers themselves, coming from the types of ministry, the Police Academy, the Faculty of Police Safety Sciences, are confirmed by the Minister himself. However, as a key argument for rejecting the law in the LDS Club, we are assessing the legal opinion of the Public Administration Institute, which rejects the proposed amendments, because the proposal of the law fully binds this purely private activity to the country and, worse still, to the Ministry of the Interior. With the power of the law, the chamber is depriving itself of education, training and completion, and these tasks will be transferred to the police academy as proposed. In doing so, it should be noted that the proponent for maintenance does not state any valid reason, merely stating that he wants to ensure a uniform concept of education for the police, municipal officials and security personnel, while ignoring the fact that private security means private economic activity, separate from the protection provided by the State. Such support is not only contrary to the amendment itself, which provides for the regulation of the situation of private economic activity in the field of private protection, but is contrary to the entire official policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Community, whereby the State should withdraw as far as possible from the economy. The proposal for amendments is also contrary to the constitutional regulation in force, since it takes a free initiative to the economy and interferes with the basic point of view that the Republic of Slovenia is a rule of law. The proposal takes up one of its most important tasks, which is essential for the development of private security, namely training and the completion of security personnel. In doing so, the applicant does not take into account the fact that the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection, after the adoption of the Act in 2003, has, in cooperation with the competent authorities, built a system for obtaining national professional qualifications and is also registered for the implementation of the prescribed procedures for obtaining all national professional qualifications in the field of private protection. In the LDS, we also believe that it is unchangeable. [[?]] the distinction between security officers and detectives. Thus, we believe that detectives are those who have a deeper and deeper impact on the human rights of individuals than security guards do, because the latter must have his consent for every intervention in individual privacy. The basic task of the detectives is, as we know, to investigate, an activity that basically belongs to the police. The security guard has no more powers than any other citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, but only in them is the problem of protecting human rights, and in the same breath this Government allows the control of detectives over public servants. At the same time, detectives have complete autonomy on the basis of the Law on Detective Activity, so they determine their own education and carry it out themselves. It should be noted, however, that even municipal officials, by means of the Law on Public Order and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, have obtained more rights and powers to interfere with human rights than security guards. Comparative and legal arrangements in other countries within the European Union and the expected financial implications of the proposed amendments also justify the opposition to the law. The international comparison shows that only Lithuania and Belgium have a similar solution as proposed by the Ministry of the Interior in Europe. The other members of the European Union shall leave the education and training of security personnel to the profession. Half of these have statutory compulsory training and the others have voluntary training. In Europe, private protection is seen as an economic activity. Also in assessing the financial implications are the Ministry's arguments on broken legs. It thus points out that the cost calculation has not yet been carried out and there is a serious likelihood that training after their transfer to the police academy will become cheaper and therefore more favourable to the users of these services. In doing so, it forgets that already after the current law, the rate of contributions to the implementation of the vocational education programmes has been laid down by the Minister of the Interior and that the chamber has no impact on the price of services. At the end of the day, I would point out only an interesting fact that, when it is able to detect extreme enthusiasm for the introduction of private education, in this case, the Government is acting in exactly the opposite way. So for reasons known only to the Government, the government opposes itself. For these reasons and unacceptable solutions brought by the amendment of the law, we will not support it in the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u44	That's a nice greeting for the president. Also on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, as well as a nice greeting to the representatives of the Government and fellow Members, fellow Members, as well as to the guests and others who accompany us on this important topic. As we discussed yesterday the Resolution on the National Crime Prevention Programme 2007-2011, we all agreed that security is a fundamental asset and that the State must enable its citizens to do so. Of course, the State can provide general security and must ensure it, but it cannot take care of all specific forms of protection. Therefore, in the late 1980s, in the early 1990s there were changes in thinking and also changes in legislation in this area, in the area of private protection. And today there are companies involved in this activity around 120. Some 5,500 security personnel are employed in the industry. Of course, I'm not just talking about security here, but there's a lot of technical staff among them. The number of employees according to the data of the Private Protection Chamber is also steadily increasing. Despite the chamber's assurances that high-level human resources training and education is taking place, recent cases have also shown that security services do not function as they should and as we may require them. The system’s weaknesses usually do not show up until the time of the accident, but it is already too late. However, in the Group of Members, we estimate that there has been much more disorder in the past in this area. According to the New Slovenia Group, one of the basic conditions is that people are involved in such protections, professionally and socially qualified. So that they are part of the actual situation both from a professional point of view and also from a psychophysical point of view. And I will not say anything new about the fact that the first private companies in this area were, for the most part, set up by former police officers. Some have seen the possibility of progress in their careers, while others, given the favourable conditions of retirement, have seen that it is not yet time to hold hands with the crosses and take up this business and choose this course. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, when adopting amendments to this law, we expect that the profession, I think more broadly, both by security guards and by police officers, will find answers to the dilemmas that practice has shown and have been responsibly identified to these answers. According to non-official data, the area of private security is also a profitable business. Of course, companies that have protection for the sole activity and are therefore the most qualified, which is right. Although on the other hand we listen and the security guards themselves point out that their work is undervalued in relation to other professions, given the requirement for a level of professionality in the performance of the duties of security guards. Since this is actually a specific segment of economic activity, we are in our parliamentary group of views and agree with those positions that, for example, in the field of education, security training can be carried out both by the State, for example the police, and by private economic operators, i.e. chambers or other individual companies, and that it is most important for us in the parliamentary group to check the professional competence and expertise of individual actors who will be training, as well as the expertise of those who wish to obtain a licence for such an activity. In Slovenia, of course, there are quite a few experts who are well, sovereignly implementing training programmes within the chamber. However, according to our known information and information, we cannot say that these are in the majority and today this has already been exposed. It is therefore necessary to seek to improve the quality of the system, not to close the system, and to identify only one possible operator. On the one hand, it would be possible to attach the legal intention to the transfer of education within the Ministry of the Interior, in short, police officers, experts are well qualified to carry out police measures and have formal knowledge, formal knowledge, know the powers of security officers and it is possible to do so, but, on the other hand, they do not have experience and can therefore be very sensitive to individual situations. Here, too, the question is certainly raised, in the case of this transfer to an exclusive education provider within the Ministry, the issue of financial implications, it should be borne in mind that it is those, or that most of those who would be carrying out the educational process paid from the Ministry's budget lines, which raises the question of the envisaged funding for the implementation of this education. Certainly, in the New Slovenia Group, it seems right that the Ministry has made changes to the law, because in practice it has allowed many different interpretations of individual articles and it is therefore necessary that the chaotic situation, which is in individual cases on the ground, is brought about by regulation and more specific determination. Therefore, the law also brings positive changes, certainly in this segment, when certain additional conditions are required of economic operators under the proposal of the novel. It also requires additional conditions for individuals, for example with regard to health skills, when it is identified for each work separately, which has been quite loosely recorded so far. There are also stricter conditions for obtaining a licence, a company to carry out a security activity will have to have a certain number of persons in employment and, as a result, will have an impact on the regulation of the employment segment in this area. It is also welcome to lay down stricter criteria and conditions for carrying out the planning of technical protection systems, which is essential for the performance of large system protection activities such as banks. It is certainly also appropriate to delete the provision on the temporary withdrawal of a licence because of difficulties in practice, since this verification was very difficult to carry out and the provision that if an economic operator grossly infringes the Private Protection Act, it will not be allowed to carry out any form of private protection. The bill also provides positive powers for inspectors. In the event of infringements, they will have the opportunity to prohibit the illegal conduct of their service, but they will also be able to confiscate objects and carry out the worst measures related to the continuation of their activities. However, in the view of our Group, it would be more meaningful to note that persons who decide to establish such economic operators, as well as those who work in these companies, to be more explicitly recorded that they must not be convicted of a criminal offence punishable by an official obligation, must not be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months and must not be charged with a criminal offence punishable by an official offence. Otherwise, there may be some paradoxical situation in which someone who has recently been persecuted for suspicion or crime services will be educated, and this would also ensure that better personnel are employed in the private security segment, which would also result in greater confidence both at the professional level and also at the private level. Also, those who would hire a security service would have more assurance for the quality and safety of the ordered work - that is, the protection of life or property. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not oppose the proposed law, but we are confident that the ministry will also listen to some of the points, views and comments of today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. I give an opinion on the proposal for a new Law on Private Protection on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. To this day, the bill of the Law on Private Protection has raised quite a few dustes in public. The main topic of the last debate is in particular the issue of training and education, which the police are expected to carry out following a proposal from the novel. Initially, private protection is a very sensitive activity, as security guards may interfere with the human rights and freedoms of others under the applicable law. That's an indisputable fact. In addition, security guards have become an indispensable part of any event or major event in recent years. In order to increase violence and crime, in particular through property damage, the need for security and protection is also increasingly needed in various institutions and facilities. On the basis of everything, it is clear that the field of protection must be precisely, clearly and specifically regulated by allowing for the normal implementation of security activities on the one hand and, of course, protecting or protecting contracting entities on the other. The proposed novel in our opinion follows this objective, and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that it is suitable for further consideration. On the proposal of the law, the Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection responded the most strongly. In its opinion, it notes, inter alia, that the proposed amendments to the law definitively and completely subordinate the activity of private protection to the police. In our view, this is not entirely true. First, it must be said that private security must be properly regulated. The law thus sets out more clearly the basic forms of private protection and establishes a system of training and checking the competence of security personnel, which in our view ensures the quality of training and consequently the quality of the provision of personal security services. We agree with the conclusion of the Private Protection Chamber that the law has financial implications and that this is one of the important elements of the proposed novel. It seems somehow logical that training within the police should be cheaper or more favourable for service users. The police have all the necessary technical and material equipment and meet the staffing requirements. These are also necessary to carry out their own education activities. We understand, however, that the implementation of these trainings represents an important part of the activity to the Chamber and that its role is decreasing with the loss of this area. It is also worth saying that the Ministry of the Interior, with the proposed amendment of the law, assumes the tasks entrusted to the Chamber of Private Protection as a public authority. It is therefore a matter of public authority and from this point of view the State has, if we say in general, the right not only to grant but also to withdraw the public authority. This is, in fact, the right of the State and it is difficult to argue against it. Unless it is justified to expect that the performance of these tasks within the competent ministry will be less qualitative. We strongly doubt that. At the same time, it is difficult to imagine that without the participation of the Chamber and the needs of the private security market, the Ministry would provide training programmes, in particular if private security companies were to object to this. Our goal is clear: Private protection services must carry out their work professionally and qualitatively. The arguments that the novel does not follow this objective have not convinced us. We also question the constitutional contradiction of the proposed solutions. If the bill or proposed amendment is so controversial, the Constitutional Court will certainly play its role. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the proposed amendment is considered appropriate for further consideration and we will follow today's debate and comments by the expert and other public. Given that we have a general debate today, certain amendments to the draft law can certainly be made to the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded our presentations on the views of the Group and are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u48	The proposal for a law on private protection amending the law, already from the presentation of the parliamentary groups, is to understand that it will certainly be necessary for further consideration of this law, then the second and third readings are to be supplemented and amended in a number of ways. That certain changes are necessary I also assess that all the solutions that this proposal brings to my mind are not entirely good or that they could be even different, and I think they are better. That this area of private protection is increasingly important in Slovenia is absolutely clear that the tasks that the police themselves sometimes carry out are no longer in a position to do, that more and more tasks are being carried out by private security and that they are also being ordered by either private authorities or by any society, that these tasks are becoming more and more after private protection. As far as training and education are concerned, I do not think it is likely that it would make sense for us to put this completely into the circle of the police academy, because I think that there should also be one of the basic tasks of the Chamber for the education of its members. Each Chamber shall also be designed to assist and educate its members. However, I do not want to say that certain education would be necessary and it would be right to be carried out within the country or that the Police Academy is proposed here. I am very much in touch with our geodetic service where I used to work, and I think that this system of education, when education was shared both at the Geodetic Institute and at the Geodetic Chamber, I would say that everyone was covering their part of education and I think that this is very good and very useful and I would suggest that this is also used in the case of training and private protection education. He wanted to say a word about his business card. Here I myself believe that it is right to issue a business card to a person, because a person; or to introduce several different cards, but I say what is a business card, I think it must be on a person. So much for my comments. And once again, I think it will be necessary to complete and complete things further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you, too. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirca to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you very much. First of all, I should like to point out that the current Law on Private Protection has not actually been fully brought to life or recently, and I do not understand that without serious analyses that could be the basis for any revisions to existing legislation, we are in the process of changing into horror. Such rapid and so radical changes in marriage can undoubtedly have a detrimental effect on the operation and development of the profession - this to begin with. Then a few more specific references are made to the proposed legislative changes. Following the current proposed legislative changes, the detective activity extends also to the field of its exclusive activity, even in very sensitive matters and issues, including the supervision of public officials or officials. The proposed legal change in the area of private protection is certainly contrary and irrefutablely totally subordinate to the activity of private protection to the police. This is about the introduction of a monopoly, and if I mention the reasons why we will not support this proposal in my Group of Members, let me also stress this very important fact. Briefly subjugating private protection activities to the police, which are intended to fully and exclusively take over all education or training. With such a legislative proposal, this industry is therefore transforming into a police subsystem, which we have not understood so far. For other reasons, it is obvious that this amendment, when amending the Law on Private Protection, does not really concern the issue of the exercise of human rights, which is very important, but rather it seems to be a reasonable assumption that there is a certain economic interest at the forefront. We know that the number of security personnel is high and is incompatible with the number of detectives, and, of course, the scope of business, education or training is changing. I will not mention non-Europeanism, but nevertheless in, I will not mention in detail the non-Europeanity in the solutions you have brought to the plan, but something needs to be said. In Europe, it is clear that private protection is primarily an economic activity. They currently do not exist in the European Union, there is no harmonised legal regime in the field of private protection, but we know that such harmonisation is already in preparation, but the only two countries with private protection training arrangements are Lithuania and Belgium. Belgium has, as we know, been convicted by the judicatures of the European Court of Justice for impermissible restrictions on private protection rules. Let me highlight that. Accordingly, in most European Union countries, private protection is strictly demarcated from the police and even specific restrictions are envisaged. Let's say a ban that at a certain age, let's say five years, no one who worked in the police or in a similar service can participate in private protection. The law speaks of the fact that the financial consequences will not be great, there will be no major financial consequences. Surely such a finding is very superficial. Why? Let me just give you a few reasons. For example, if the country is justified in charging for training, as is now foreseen, which is prescribed as compulsory and is carried out on its own. In this case, then, does it not have to finance such training from the budget? Then how come there's no financial implications? For example, the European Social Fund, which now finances the training of unemployed persons, will not finance the training provided by the State in the future. Of course not. This legislative change will also close the possibility of participating in certain European projects, in which, say, the Chamber is now involved. In short, it is also stated in the explanation of the bill that the bill has not yet been calculated. According to this logic, we shouldn't even make a law. Admitting that you have no cost calculations made or that it will have no financial implications is misleading. But that's one of the many things I'm going to say is the inconsistencies we face in this marriage. What is most important, in fact, for us to see this change in law can be an important threat to police intervention in the private economic sphere. As the organiser of all these activities, which focus on education, the police will directly decide on the development of private protection and will fully subordinate it to each other. In this respect, it will unduly intervene in private economic activity. The question is whether it has the necessary knowledge to carry out all the tasks to be delegated to it by means of this legislative proposal. We know that the police are a repressive state authority and that private security carries out its activities for the needs of individual contracting authorities and must take into account a range of specific requirements. We believe that this adoption, with the possible adoption of such a law, effectively abolishes the activity of private protection in Slovenia. In this way, the Chamber and all its activities that have been going in the direction of the development of the profession at home and abroad are being abolished in some way. Strongly, if I repeat, we are opposed to fully transferring the activity to the police, which will carry out its activities in a monopolistic manner. Let me stress, as the profession points out, that this is not an issue of opposition, that, for example, if we are talking about training security personnel and carrying out the relevant procedures, checking, certifying and so on, we can also do elsewhere, not oppose, but, therefore, certain criteria must be laid down, so there must be clear conditions for carrying out this training, but not in the sense of monopolising something that has now been completely satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you, too. My word, Mag. Franca Znidarsich. [[He's not here.]] The word has been delivered by the Member of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] My word, Mag. Majdo Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! When Slovenia was shaken by the news of the events in Lipa, after those events, I asked the Minister of Home Affairs not only what he intends to do to avoid similar tragedies. That's when I got the assurance that something would change. Well, I can't say that the amendments that have been tabled follow my expectations of what should have changed. Because they are concerned in many ways in an area where, when it happened, what happened in Lipa or before Lipa was not even established by the Private Protection Act. Since my behaviour on private protection is limited and because I distinguish between what is a sense of security and security, let me just say that people also say because of their sense of security that they need weapons at home and that security is nothing more than a comment on some other tragic events. So, since my behaviour on protection is limited, let me stick to just one thing that is defined in this law for another purpose. The second objective is to establish a high-quality system of professional training and training of security personnel and verification of competence. Since I have been working alone for a long time in the education system, I know that all changes in education need to be done with great prudence. Therefore, I am asked a fundamental question: On the basis of what analysis, on the basis of which the findings and comparisons are based, is the proposed amendment in the law, which, by the way, is also read in contravention of the Vocational Qualifications Act and also in the general trends expressed by this Government when it is engaged in a public private partnership in the field of education and education? If we observe in professional and vocational education that much of what belongs to this field can also be transferred to the Chambers, if we also read in the National Vocational Qualifications Act, that there is a great deal of role assigned to the Chambers in training and also in education, it is, in fact, incredible that, with the proposed changes, the whole area of education, the pardon for vocational training and the completion is transferred from the current contractor to the new operator. Why does this seem particularly interesting to me? In fact, if the Ministry of the Interior is to take over all the powers, then I do not see, as it is said, any basis for why this will bring better results. Nor does the comparison with the four countries of the European Union, mentioned here in the introduction of the law, give any specific arguments for this because France merely requires certificates of competence regarding training and training of security personnel. The Finnish explicit training of security personnel shall be carried out in private security companies and the operators shall be selected from the list of operators. In Estonia, training of security personnel is based on specific licences granted by the State authorities to those who fulfil certain conditions in the law. And if I mention Belgium, the completion and training are carried out by centres awarded a training licence by the Ministry of the Interior. It appears everywhere that these training and completion providers are no longer and that there is no monopoly on this area. The summary, however, states: the completion and training of the security person is different in EU countries. Let me mention some details of the discrepancy between education, as defined in other laws and as it is supposed to follow the proposed amendment. See, Article 8 of the Law on National and Professional Qualifications plays a special role in the development and training of the Republic of Slovenia's Centre for Vocational and Vocational Education. In Article 9, such special functions shall be performed by the State Examination Centre. These are all state institutions, by the way. The 10th Article defines the operators of the procedures for the identification and validation of professional qualifications. And there are also chambers in the 10th article. Well, if I go to see now how the new law provides for, then, in particular, in this article, I stress, in the second and third paragraphs, all the competence exclusively to the Minister of Internal Affairs, which lays down in more detail the method of implementation and the staffing and material conditions. Furthermore, the third paragraph, which, Mr State Secretary, is very interestingly written: the Ministry of the Interior may obtain the opinion of the association or chamber of operators before the preparation of the programmes referred to in the first, fourth and fifth indents of paragraph 1 of this Article. Well, you can and before that. You are totally excluding the possibility that anyone else outside the Ministry would participate in the training process in any way. It focuses on the Minister and the Ministry, where private protection belongs, has been said several times today. And who, by the way, has granted licenses to some in public to the most exposed security companies, but also knows. So it seems to me that responsibility for certain failures or non-implementation of the rules must nevertheless be addressed to the one who grants the licences, which is the Ministry of the Interior. I cannot agree to such transfers and monopolisation of the completion and training to one body, which is actually from the Ministry of the Interior, because I feel that it is particularly unacceptable that after one year of the introduction of the novelty, when no analysis has been made by the training provider so far, that the catalogues and all that is necessary for the training under the National Professional Qualifications Act have been made available to others, it seems a little unconvincing to me that I am not saying anything else. In fact, in order for private security companies or private security entities to do this job well in order to have adequately trained security personnel, the licensee is responsible. This licence is issued by the Ministry of the Interior. And here you have to ask yourself, is everything that needs to be done or not? I therefore expect the Ministry of the Interior to withdraw the proposed law and draw up such a proposal for a law that will be more acceptable and that will also have the support of the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you, too. I call on Ambassador Milan M. Cwickl. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Mr. Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. It is perfectly logical that if practice shows that there have been certain shortcomings, that the Government has decided and has also prepared legislative changes that will improve the situation in this area. It is also logical that various cesovo or state - owned organizations should be able to make certain provisions that somehow exacerbate the conditions so that the situation in this area is improved, opposed, and have doubts and reservations about them. And I don't see any special problems here. It is about finding the best possible solutions in a common dialogue. However, since the debate itself and the comments before we began to consider this law have shown that the most reservations, the most comments concerning the training and completion of these workers, would have been the most appropriate in this area in their own debate. The fact is that these security personnel, these security guards have very important powers under the law also in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, they must also be adequately trained, and therefore the training system must also be quality, uniform for all, independent, in a way that will in fact follow this objective. The second thing is, personally, it does not seem entirely logical to me that performers are practically training themselves through their own chamber. This is similar to if, I don't know, the motorists train their own carriers and then give them a driver's license. It is right that operators, with their experience, with their knowledge acquired in the implementation of the activities, participate in this process. But I don't think it's right that they're just the ones doing it. As such, the Chamber has a monopoly at this time in this area. And it's a solid monopoly that's shared with the law. We do know, however, that monopolies do not lead to some quality, to some improvement, but allow a certain position to be maintained. Nor does it need to be that the interests of the undertakings which unite in this Chamber or directly their interests are fully in line with the interests of those protected by these undertakings. Furthermore, this private security activity is actually a very sensitive activity and it seems right for the State to regulate this area to a certain extent. If we are still talking about the interests of these companies that are carrying out this protection, it is true that this is an economic activity. In the back of an economic activity, there is always some capital, capital that wants to increase revenue, wants good business results and, of course, some constraints so that this interest does not prevail, and in fact it must be. Therefore, the State must also regulate this area in some way. And if I'm still talking about the room. In the Chamber, in the Chamber itself, even within it some may appear, such as monopolies. Some companies that have a greater impact within the Chamber may, in fact, take advantage of their situation mainly at the expense of smaller enterprises, which is to the detriment of developing the whole activity and also stifling some healthy competition and putting some in an unequal position. And more. The practice has shown many irregularities and shortcomings, which despite some clear warnings and demands have not been resolved. Why this has been done is probably a number of reasons, but one of the key ones is this already mentioned by the law, a monopoly that can exploit that position, because this monopoly is divided by the law and can be taken away in the same way as the law. And I don't think such solid cemented positions are good for development. I don't think they're in place. As far as I am aware, this and some others are concerned, none of them are set up to carry out economic activities. Training carried out so far by this Chamber is not an economic activity, but it is true that it trains employees for those entities carrying out an economic activity of private protection. In the debate we also heard some indications and concerns that the law interferes with the autonomy of these companies. It is true that I personally support autonomy, autonomy and similar things, but for the first time, complete autonomy can lead towards a monopoly, and for the second time this activity is indeed a very sensitive activity that concerns the protection of the property of persons, where there must be clearly defined conditions and where the country must also have a role to play in monitoring and training. As a result, I cannot imagine, even in this area and in any other area, such a sensitive area, complete autonomy, the country must, in some way, regulate, because of its interests and those which are protected and because of its wider interests. For this reason, I am convinced that, in the field of training in particular, changes are essential. But it is true that the question is whether the proposed solution is really the best. If possible, there is no other monopoly behind this solution. Therefore, my belief that the law as such is to support further consideration, that the area of training should also be considered to open up this space, broadened that in no case would there be such a monopoly or a different monopoly and that this would actually offer a choice, in some way, competition, and in my view would make an important step forward in raising the quality of this activity. Therefore, as has already been said, I will support the law by expecting certain additions to be made through further consideration, improvements in areas where this is yet to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Paul Gantar to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There were many things already said about this bill's proposal at first reading, many arguments that suggest that the law as such is not entirely suitable for further consideration. I myself will not represent the positions that the Chamber has already presented to many of us, and I hope that the ministry, where it obviously did not come across the proper hearings, will also. I will also not repeat material, professional opinions and so on, but I would put this debate mainly around the point of education in a broader context. It is probably no secret that I was alone in one way or another active in politics for the last ten, twelve years, and if any red thread was present, I would say that it was an attempt, an idea of what we would do in Slovenia, if it were possible, something called a 'witka state'. It is a country that has really the basic functions it performs effectively and that some functions which are public, in fact, try to transfer through public authority to civil society, the economy and other matters. This is, for example, one of the issues in the field of education. And in this context, it is necessary to look at this transfer, which has been made by the Chamber itself through its mechanisms under the legal supervision of its members, to grant appropriate certificates of knowledge, education and so on, but of course under the supervision that this is, of course, part of this process. I have warned, indeed, there have been some problems, such as the transfer of certain things to a notariat, where insufficient attention has been paid to the fact that notaries, for example, have overcharged their services. We've - what have we done? We, instead of getting smart at prices, took it back to the country. And this government has been retransmitting a number of public functions over the last two years with public powers, which could be carried out by organisations outside the State and also by wider government administrations, back to the country and work of the Behemont, large, wide, everywhere present, including a strong country with controls, video controls and I don't know what else, and it's reducing space for the economy, civil-social initiatives, etc. Private protection is an economic activity. Private protection is a public interest, in the area of private protection it is clear that this economic activity does not conflict with public objectives, with human rights, with freedoms, etc. And this is where things should end, the role of the state. Regulate only what needs to be regulated and nothing more and nothing less. We will be able to transfer any other education to the Ministry, if we are not satisfied, I mentioned earlier, with the education of notaries, we will take this further to law schools, exams and transfer them to the Ministry of Justice. This isn't the way. This is not the way, and this is contrary to an idea which is that we listen to make a country, lean, effective where necessary, but to regulate certain matters that are within the competence of those who relate to them, under control and under public authority to which they belong. And the law is clearly going in the opposite direction. Therefore, for me, even for the parliamentary group, which we previously did not specifically represent, of course this law is precisely because of this, even a broader contextual view of the matter is not acceptable and, of course, we will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I also agree that it is necessary to amend or amend the law if, in practice, the existing law shows that it has certain shortcomings. I also agree that all the solutions given in this law are probably not ideal and that is why we also have a general debate and there are likely to be some changes in the adoption of law in this National Assembly. However, I must say that no one will convince me that if, in law, education or certain education is transferred to the Ministry of the Interior, that from that day forward we will have a police state, as we have heard several times today, and in some other debates in other laws, which has been mentioned several times in this National Assembly. I would have remembered the one and the one that you spoke about today when we adopted the Law on Public Order and the Law on Public Order and Peace in this National Assembly. At that time, many of you explained how we are now transferring certain powers in this law, by the Ministry of the Interior, by the police to local community bodies, that is one and the same. I, myself, at the time, supported the idea that it was necessary for the Ministry of the Interior or the police to retain certain powers at the local level, or to actually carry out certain tasks in practice. Some who come from local communities, where there is a great presence of the police, would be very pleased that this body would have greater powers in the area of prevention of various vandalism and so on, which is very much present in certain Slovenia. I must mention that, at the time, there was a different debate here in the National Assembly, different concerns, different views on these decisions, but I personally, this is my opinion, if we also have a Schengen border in certain municipalities, but not now to understand that I came out of the context of this law, 200 police officers, then it would be right that this body is also present here in this segment, not just for traffic regulation, but for the protection of the state border. That's exactly why I said that when you talk a lot about the police state. What bothers me, however, is that we can then carry out certain tasks from the profession or that it will no longer carry out the profession. That is to say, if this is not done by the Chamber or by any other appropriate body, then this education will no longer be in the exercise of the profession. This kind of reminds me, or I would like to say, it also means, in fact, that if we have a public education or a public education or a school or a private school today, that means that in this case too, we might conclude that public education does not meet these criteria for the implementation of education and education. That's it, too. Now we can conclude from this point of view. So it would also be very good that we are somehow not double in this National Assembly, once, or that we are also discussing professionally in certain matters, but not only politically, but I know that the presence of politics in this National Assembly must be, and I agree with it, and I also agree with it, given that some of us have been in the profession and we have come here and we have become a little more accustomed to this work or to the implementation of political obligations in the National Assembly. So that I think that certain amendments to the law will really need to be made to the next reading, and I also expect that those who have been argued in this general debate, that they need to be introduced and that this will be complemented and that, I would say, in practice, they will bring positive added value and that in the future, just if we have a good law in this area, there will be no cases as they have been in the past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. However, I invite Member Dimitri Kovacic to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! I believe that there is no need for the proposed law to be withdrawn from the procedure, regardless of the fact that there is some part of this law, which I myself agree needs to be corrected. I also made this point in the introductory presentation of our Group's opinions. But given the fact that the actual situation is such that there are certain shortcomings that also arise due to the provisions of the current law, there is a need to amend the law and if we agree that this need exists, then there is no reason for us to postpone this need in the future and for the withdrawal of this law to take place now. As it is said, in this case private security is an economic activity, which is of such a nature that it cannot be completely free, left to self-regulation, but the State must have an interest and the ability to control and to set the conditions under which this activity is carried out, and we probably all agree on that. And this control must apply to both the activity and the segment of this law, where there are certain different views on the regime as set out in this Act. So we're talking about training, not education, but training or training. It was said here by one of the predecessors that it is not good for the State to take away certain powers from some of the entities they have so far and to take over those powers. I certainly agree with that. Only a case that was exposed to this does not correspond to the actual situation. This is an example of notary services. My predecessor said that the state transferred the powers of notary services to the country. This means that the notaries would be stripped of their jurisdiction and taken over by themselves. This is not true, for notaries continue to provide services. It has now enabled this service to be provided by the State through its administrative units. And there's something like this that I'm looking forward to here when we're talking about training. Therefore, the State does not transfer the powers of the Chamber, i.e. the powers of introduction and training, which is now exercised by the Chamber to the Ministry of the Interior to take it away and transfer it to the State. I don't agree with that either, and I said so. I advocate that the space be opened up, that the monopoly be broken in this area too, if it existed and that it is not replaced by one monopoly with another monopoly, but that the matter is opened up and that it is made possible for all those who have an interest and who are qualified to train the staff to do so. However, given the specific activity of private protection, it is correct that the State also exercises full control over this area, that a uniform concept of training and complementarity is implemented and that the State, through its authorities, is the one that identifies the assessor or the interested organisation, the legal person concerned fulfils the conditions or is qualified to do so and that it then also grants the authorisation to carry out this activity. So I don't see any reason why, apart from the chamber which is training, the state is doing it through its police academy, as well as anyone else who is qualified to do it. The space needs to be opened. And I don't agree that the only room would be the one doing this the way it is. In this respect, it is certainly necessary to provide more opportunities for all to make this right. There's no need for the law to withdraw from the procedure. In this part, the law may be corrected and the matter may be decided as soon as possible. And in this case, the law will be adopted quickly. It will be sufficient to conclude that there is a need to amend the law in this area, for the existing law has certain shortcomings that we would now like to address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Although I do not know what will be said by the Government in favour of the bill at the time it is still available. I think, however, that the debates of MEPs and Members, among whom they were very rare, which said that the law was entirely good, confirmed that the general debate was necessary. The debates of Members and Members were indeed moving among sharp criticisms, I must say mine was such, and I was hurt that the Government could prepare such a bad marriage; I do not resent the honourable gentlemen, because how can I say something first is black and then say something white. To make huge changes in the concept and to implement with nothing but some of the most general phrases. Just being in power doesn't give you that right. You must also operate with expertise and facts before us to believe that some cardinal changes are necessary, because otherwise we do not know everything and therefore you must try to convince us not to say: "Believe, even if there is no evidence for this!".. I hope the government will say in its performance that the concept needs to be seriously complemented. If he doesn't, then I'll know what my attitude is to the bill. On behalf of the Member of Parliament, I said, if we don't agree on what the law is, which is essentially correcting, then I don't think he's mature enough to make a decision about it. In Parliament, MEPs and Members, we know what procedure means. If we adopt the law without the Government promising us in advance what it will do, then we are committed, and you, in the coalition, are committed to what you and the Government can do. Since you will be able to make those arrangements with the Government, you will be able to form them into amendments, and that will eventually be adopted. It will not be possible to talk about the concept, the connection to having more opinions and professions will not be possible to talk. That's why I think we need to take this seriously. We have so far had experience that, when the law was good or bad, in the general debate it could have been adopted, but sometimes, in agreement with the Government, many amendments could have been made. Even when every other article of the law was then amended, that was the only thing that meant unquality work. And where I see that, with the exception of rare exceptions, we are also aligned with members of the coalition - one that no monopoly is good. We agree, and the Chamber of Private Protection agrees to do so and has explicitly said so. Nor do we want there to be a monopoly on us, at least with regard to the fundamental issue of training and education, can there be another solution. Like, it's probably not that simple. It has to be imagined, and I don't know if it can be imagined just now that you wanted to monopolize yourself so quickly that you could find a suitable solution. More or less a uniform opinion was that the monopoly at the Ministry of the Interior and at the police school as a reverse monopoly is not good and that some serious additions and changes must be made in this direction. No one, including from the opposition, understood that it would be against the fact that, while it is an economic activity which has such public importance for property, for businesses, for persons who would not be required to give licences, for the State to control implementation in this regard, if anything is specifically wrong, you said that the provisions were so general that they could not be implemented consistently. Which one? You didn't say. See, read the text you wrote, the general conclusion itself, without giving any concrete facts. The question which, I admit, has not been asked by the Chamber, but by the Institute of Public Administration, and I have taken it up in my introduction, is the question of changing the concept, because of me we can change the concept, you just have to justify it. You from the Chamber of Public Administration are going to a private chamber, you are deleting the most important part of public authority from certain public powers. What will this be compared to other chambers in which, at least in my opinion, education is one of the inherent functions of each chamber. Then let's just argue that this is something so special that in addition to the licenses you can give to the lecturers, yes, I agree, for some subjects you can probably give a license because they have to be qualified for specific skills that the Ministry of the Interior also deals with, but that doesn't mean that the police security school is the only one and only one that needs to fix it as a monopoly. In short, there are a lot of questions and dilemmas and I, for once in the discussion of colleagues of coalition Members, but I believe that they are not fully satisfied with the law, that is what they have said after all, that they know that, as a rule, against the law that the Government is proposing, they are not allowed to vote, that certain corrections are likely to be necessary, and that I am using this term at the end of the day, because it has been used most often, which is not known, and so have you, Comrade Kovacic. Certain corrections and certain corrections, which, I do not know, and I am afraid that if the Government does not come with sufficient clarity and say where is it that we should seriously be complemented, that this time it will try to drive us again thirsty over water, I must say that I will not agree to this and therefore very, very much listen to the Secretary of State and others, who will now explain to me how we are in great confusion and how this is an ideal proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you. The list of discussers has been completed, except for your replica, Mr. Kovacic. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Potzt, I have made a very specific point of view in what I see the necessary corrections, namely that the state will not be the only one through its Police Academy in training and staff upgrading, but that it will open up the possibility for all those who will meet the conditions to be very specific and I have not talked about certain and imaginary changes that are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you. Does he want a proposaler? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President and honourable Members! In fact, all of this is judged together by article 121 of the Constitution, which speaks of public authority, all of this is largely due to the current debate of more or less marginal importance. I must say that the main objective of the amendments and the completion of the law on private protection is to ensure that companies dealing with private protection are able to meet the conditions for quality protection with qualified persons. The most important thing is to ensure the safety of users of security services through changes and additions, by preventing, to the greatest extent, unlawful interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms that come in any way, i.e. persons who come in contact with security personnel in one way or another. The Ministry of the Interior twice in 2006 and 2007 on the basis of complaints from private security companies carried out supervision of the exercise of public powers, i.e. training. We have found that the Chamber did not fully respect certain provisions, as I mentioned earlier, the rules on the exercise of public powers, particularly in the segments laid down by the responsible persons for training, the deadlines for the application of certificates. Having had quite a few complaints regarding favouritism [[?]] Some private security companies, which led the Ministry of the Interior to believe that these are already sufficient and justified reasons for the withdrawal of public authority. At this point, I do not wish to discuss specifically the security interventions, the protection of human rights and other violations related to the functioning of the Chamber, but to the incorrect and unjustifiable use of coercive resources in this area. Among us is the chairman of the chamber, Mr Ingo Paš, whom I welcome. The main reason for the transfer of training organisation to the Police Academy is that training will be more professional. At the same time, they will prevent the privilege of individual companies for private protection. The Police Academy will select operators with appropriate education and with specific expertise, including private security experts. The Chamber will continue to be able to take care of the expertise and development of the industry. In particular, by participating in the Bureau in the preparation of catalogues of skills and training programmes. However, optional training can also be organised. I must say that there is a need to separate the education system from the training system here. Up to now, the Education Chamber has never implemented such a system, and there is no such system in Slovenia, unfortunately. We will be very pleased, however, if such an initiative comes from an appropriate source and we support the matter. In the internal ministry, on the basis of experience with the implementation of the Law on Private Protection and the irregularities found, we have decided that it is necessary to approach the law. On the basis of this material, we have taken into account the opinions, initiatives and comments of certain private security companies which were not treated equally by the existing Chamber and which have consistently complained about the functioning of the Chamber. The bill, which I have to stress in particular, and today, I believe, has been critically commented on, has also been inter-departmentally coordinated. In fact, we have taken into account almost all proposals, except for a few smaller ones, and those provisions relating to training and public authority. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on private protection, which is before you today, honourable Members and Members, is, in our opinion, entirely in line with the field of training and certification of national professional qualifications. In particular, the proposed material aims only to improve the quality of training. So the people who do it and the people who get it. In analysing the content of the training, the Ministry found that security measures are similar to police powers according to their content. Very similar. For this reason, it makes sense for these powers to be given to uniform police officers, municipal officials and also to security guards. Of course, to a different extent. Only a bad quarter of the training content belongs to the private security profession, so about a quarter, say. For this part, the Ministry will involve experts from all areas necessary, not only from individual private protection companies. There have also been some speeches and comparabilitys around the European Union system in EU countries. So, in the European Union, it is not a uniform concept of the education of security personnel dealing with private protection, but it is regulated in each country somewhat in its own right. I must say that there have been and are likely to be more unification attempts now, but there is not yet one single programme. Nor is there any EU directive or legal norm in this area, and if so, Slovenia will certainly implement this, which is also our obligation. By transferring training to the police academy, which has also been given a few speeches today, private security companies would gain a great deal from the skills of security personnel, which is why the internal ministry cannot really accept individual criticisms in this solution. Like a fugitive, maybe, or like just a single partial system, yes, but not a single partial system. The solutions that are proposed in our firm conviction lead to professionalism. The funding, which has also been debated today, is in fact what it used to be. Therefore, they finance this activity of an economic company or individuals. There are no changes here and we don't expect them. However, in order for the Chamber to move from a person of public law to a person of private law, this proposal is a fact. I agree. The Ministry of the Interior or the Government, of course, welcomes all your comments and concerns in order for this law to be ideally prepared for the second reading, so of course we are also prepared to amend certain provisions, especially as regards training, and therefore we will take these comments into account here and we will implement the matter in such a way that it will not only be police training, as has been mentioned twice or three times here, or that it is a police subsystem. I beg of you, I am distancing myself from this and I hope that those of you who have discussed this today do not think that very seriously. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you, Mag. Zinrajhu. You have been given the floor by all the debaters you wanted, because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, and I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. I'm opening an application for further discussion. Mr. Miran Potch, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I was listening. I hope I didn't get it all the wrong way. I understood, however, that most of the debate was devoted to arguing the bill, and it was finally pointed out that perhaps - not perhaps - that the Government was willing to listen to the comments made in the debate, particularly regarding the possible monopoly on education by the Police Academy, although in the debates why the proposals were such, it was said that the Education Chamber was not already fully accepted because it could have something optional, which was, of course, something completely different, and some cooperation in the development of catalogues of knowledge and the like. I must say that in the rest of the very thorough explanation of where the weaknesses have really been so far, there has been no explanation in this explanation by the Secretary of State. I would like to say, however, that we have - and I would very much like, if it were possible to face on some occasion - very specific indications on the evidence that is generally given, both as regards the responsibilities that the Chamber should have with regard to certain concrete actions in dispute: Lipa, the SKB bank, where it is dissuading any liability since the licences were granted by the Ministry, without taking into account the quality and competence of certain companies that have carried out protection in this case. We have received today, Mr Zinrajh, one warning that the Ministry has issued a decision on the offence after nine months of the finding or some control, with the mildest, I think, a possible punishment, but without any indication of concrete facts, that someone could really be responsible for the conduct of others, which is the essence of the request for judicial protection in an offence that has already been filed. In short, I do not argue that the references given to us in the preparation of this material and in the awareness and knowledge of the issue of the functioning of private security companies have been given by the Chamber. No, I'm not saying that! However, they are all very specific, concretely stated and reasoned as compared to or vice versa by the Ministry. The Ministry has not done so and it would be very good to face these things at some point, even if the law at first reading is adopted through a public presentation of opinions, because in some important area we will come into the adoption of one law on the basis of relatively general proposals and assessments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, decide today in the context of the votes, half an hour after the discussions have been concluded, or in accordance with the point envisaged for questions of Members and Members to the President of the Government. We move on to the 7th A-point of the agenda - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the State Prosecutor's Office to deal with the emergency legislative procedure in the National Assembly. The proposal proposed to extend the deadline for the establishment and entry into operation of a specialised section of the National Prosecutors' Unit for the Prosecution of Organised Crime at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The section would thus be established by 31 October of this year at the latest and would be operational on 1 November 2007. This department will not be operational as early as 17 May 2007, as follows from the amendment to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which was adopted on 1 February this year. The proposed law also partially changes the way in which personnel are acquired into a specialised section of the National Prosecutors' Unit for the Prosecution of Organised Crime at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia by making it as easy as possible to obtain qualified personnel who will be officers of the specialised department, in terms of their relocation and employment, salaries, allowances and the like, of course, taking into account the specificity of the operation and mission of the department. The specialized section of the Organised Crime Prosecution Unit of the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia is a completely new organisational institute or form of the organisation of the State Prosecutor’s Office and it is logical or acceptable that the State Prosecutor’s Office, in preparing for its work in practical terms, has found that certain legal changes are necessary in order to achieve the purpose of the amendment of the State Prosecutor’s Law with effect from 1 February this year. On 17 May 2007, as I have already mentioned, which is valid under the Act of February 2007, as the deadline for the establishment and entry into operation of a specialised department despite all the intense and responsible efforts of the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, which were truly extremely active, is not realistically achievable. Therefore, new deadlines are proposed for the establishment and operation of the 31 October 2007 section, which is the deadline for its establishment, and 1 November 2007 is the deadline for its full start. In preparing for the establishment of a specialised department set up jointly by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, the project team assessed that, by 17 May of this year, a number of police officers and police officers could be relocated to this section and that it would be more difficult to complete the employment process, in accordance with the rules on public officials which are much more complex in terms of procedures. In fact, this means that the intention of effectively detecting and prosecuting perpetrators of crimes from a specific circle of officials would not have been achieved. With regard to the content of the draft law, I also assess that the amendments adopted yesterday by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly are acceptable, both in the light of the more precise drafting of the provisions of the bill and in view of preventing the possibility of a "confirmed" legal void in relation to the powers of the police in the pre-trial procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed amendments to the State Prosecutor's Office Act are necessary and essential in order to achieve the objective of effective prosecution and investigation of the crimes of a particular group of officials, on which financing is dependent not only on justice in general, but also on the functioning of the rule of law and protection against violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms under the Constitution and international treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you, President. A warm welcome to the representatives of the Ministry, the Minister and the Secretary of State and all colleagues. At its 36th emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the State Prosecutor's Office, as the College of the President of the National Assembly decided, at its meeting on 20.4., that the proposal for a law should be considered following an urgent procedure. The representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill, in which he said that the proposed law extended the deadline for the establishment and in part changed the way in which the specialised department in the group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. This amendment is linked to the last amendment of the State Prosecutor's Office Act and essentially builds on the lessons learned from the practice of preparing for the establishment of a specialised department. A representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, who presented the opinion of this service, also took part in the meeting, and on the basis of their opinion, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which was adopted by the Committee and then adopted all the other articles of the law together. Otherwise, the debate highlighted the issue or the problem of receiving the novelty mainly with regard to the procedure, and most members felt that it was necessary to extend the deadline for setting up a special section because otherwise there would be a legal void. As it is said, the Committee has confirmed all the proposed articles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. I'll only invite those representatives who are present. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Member of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u74	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr Minister. Now we are correcting some of the sins with this bill on changes and additions to the state prosecutor's law, and I am always worried when I hear such a passive - that something will come up because of something. Nothing would have happened, but we did. They've probably done it consciously, too. We have an emergency procedure twice; it is said, first of all, by the law we adopted there in February. What's the emergency? Who was in such a terrible hurry, and who didn't want to hear a broader and reasoned debate? This is a question that is raised in such a way as to adopt laws. Now we have an emergency procedure again. The problem encountered in this regard is clear that, when preparing for the establishment of this specialised section of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, it was found that the deadline for the establishment of the section was too short. So what was the dialogue between the Ministry and the Attorney General, the prosecutor, that this happened? In preparation for the establishment of a specialised department in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, it has been shown that, in view of their effective operation, it is necessary to re-establish certain administrative simplifications regarding the relocation, employment of public servants, their remuneration in order to achieve effective functioning. This could all have happened if the procedure were normal. There would also be some kind of warning in the debate. It is a kind of suspension of what the National Assembly can contribute to such a matter. And at the Liberal Democracy Club, we were already opposed to "ad hoc" setting up such a group in January. They said that the solution was inappropriate, unthinkable, based on wrong assumptions; and this has now proved to be three months after the adoption of this law. So it didn't take 18 months, and I don't know how much you'd like to say that you can see that the marriage sucks or that it can't work, but it turned out very soon. He is not the only law to have been adopted here by the majority in the National Assembly. That is why we do not intend to support this amendment of the law. We still believe that the regime is contrary to decisions and the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights and, as has been shown, to itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thanks again. Two months ago, we really adopted a new law on the State Prosecutor's Office and a law on criminal proceedings. With them, we have laid the groundwork for the establishment of a specialised department in a group of state prosecutors, which will primarily investigate criminals from the police and other repressive authorities who are officials. In preparation for the establishment of this special group, the project group found that only a certain number of police officers could be relocated by the deadline laid down in the law. The problems arose mainly in the employment of other public servants due to restrictions and restrictions on their deployment. The Novela has therefore now set out the possibility of redistribution for a period of six years, but it also creates opportunities for rewards and, in particular, for preventing corruption. In the previous novel, we may not have been warned or thought about all the specifics of the establishment of this group, but it is only right to confirm this law today, and we will support the proposed amendments to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office to the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u78	The Honorable President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I give an opinion on the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia amended the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office by means of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office on 1 February of this year. In preparation for the implementation of the law, it was found that a certain delay was needed in the establishment of a specialised department at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 10, paragraph 4, of the State Prosecutor's Office Act, as it was found that the deadline for the establishment of the department was too short. The project team of the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Ministry of the Interior is involved, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, together with the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia, is assessed that procedures concerning competitions relating to public servants cannot be carried out quickly enough, taking into account all procedures under official law, and that it also takes a longer period to obtain the most qualified staff who will exercise police powers and duties under the provisions of the law. This amendment is also intended to correct, and the proposal for a law proposes an appropriate extension of the statutory deadlines for the establishment of a specialised department and certain changes regarding the transfer of public servants to a specialised department. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports and supports the proposed amendment to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, and we also support this proposed amendment adopted yesterday by the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the draft law in the context of the urgent procedure. We will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Before we move to point 7b, I suggest we suspend the meeting in five minutes, because the Minister is already on his way to the National Assembly. So we'll continue in five minutes, that's 13.34.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u80	I hear there's still a minister on the way. We'd have started anyway. We move on to 7B POINT OF THE DAY LINE This is on the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection of Plants Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much, President. Nicely greeted. At today's meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly as a matter of urgency. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly also decided that this law should be followed by an urgent procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food participated in the work of the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. The Committee received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and comments on Articles 5, 9, 10 and 13 of the draft law. Amendments were forwarded to the Committee, in particular taking into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In addition, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food gave a brief supplementary explanation of the bill and explained the reasons for the consideration of the bill under the urgent procedure. The Government proposes an urgent procedure to remedy the consequences of a natural disaster and to establish as soon as possible a legal basis for the establishment of a system for the prevention and control of all plant diseases and pests in the event of their mass occurrence or resurgence, which may lead to a natural disaster. The early entry into force of the law is necessary as it concerns changes and additions to the law necessary already in 2007 for the control and implementation of official phytosanitary measures in plant diseases and pests, which have emerged in mass or have multiplied, such as the ogres of the May bug, and cause significant economic damage or pose a risk to the health care of the seed and reproductive material of agricultural plants. Small changes are also proposed to remove administrative barriers, simplify procedures for the transit of plant consignments and allow for the reimbursement of certain costs of measures taken to prevent and suppress harmful organisms. The proposal seeks to achieve by law the effective implementation of the prescribed measures, the outcome of which is mainly in the interest and preservation of plant health and biodiversity. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their comments were mainly taken into account in the amendments, except for Article 10 - here is an interpretation of what administrative fees are and what fees are. The representative of the proposer, this is the Government, explained what fees meant to them, that they were essentially payments for services, for professional tasks. The Committee did not respond to this comment or accepted the explanation of the Government's representative. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, as the envisaged phytosanitary measures, which are necessary, in some areas of Slovenia, will prevent economic damage or natural disasters that would occur in cases of increased occurrence or reproduction of plant diseases and pests. The Committee then considered the articles which had been amended and adopted the amendments to Article 5, Article 9, Article 11 and Article 13 and then voted on and adopted all the proposed amended articles and amendments. Thus, you have before you a proposal for a law that is proposed for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you. In our midst, I welcome the Minister. If no one objects, I will give my word to the Minister for Explanation of the Law. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I'd like to apologize for this brief delay. I hope you'll excuse me. Therefore, with the proposed amendments and additions to the Plant Health Act, additionally as already regulated by this Regulation, the implementation of phytosanitary measures will also be regulated against conventional plant diseases and pests in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of their increased occurrence or restocking, which may lead to greater economic damage. The current law lays down measures and controls only on the most dangerous quarantine diseases and pests prescribed primarily by the European Union and does not provide for measures in the occurrence and outbreaks of other plant pests in the Member States themselves. Due to climate change with mild winters and other adverse weather conditions, it is essential to regulate action also in such cases as an increase in the occurrence of individual diseases and pests. The main reason for supplementing the law by emergency procedure is that it is already this year that phytosanitary measures by the official services are allowed to take place to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster resulting from the reproducing of the May bug in the Idrian region and the implementation of measures in reeds to limit and prevent the spread of cane cancer. Just a few details. In the Idrian region, the ogres of the Mayan bug completely destroyed lawns and about 600 hectares, while farmers bought food, sold food, and waited for the population’s natural fall, which did not happen. We therefore believe that the only effective measure is the systematic elimination of this phenomenon. The proposal also allows the Government to determine the area of implementation of the measure and the operators of measures to control certain diseases or pests in cases of reproducing plant pests by means of an implementing regulation. The Government shall order the performance of specific tasks covered by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, operators of public plant health, public service and other healthcare providers. Such implementation, in our view, is more systematic, more rational, while at the same time implementing measures throughout the area enables pests to be suppressed or the population to be reduced to an acceptable level, which is in the public interest. In exceptional cases, the Government may also determine the participation of civil protection units and other relevant institutions in the country. In the production of stem plants and vine seed, there have also been problems of preventing the spread of important diseases, i.e. cane cancer, which is transmitted in a hidden form by vegetatively propagated parts of the infected plants to seedlings. The proposed amendments to the law provide a basis for official measures for the removal of secretly infected mother plants from reproduction, for which the holder receives compensation for the value of plants. In this way, by means of a minimum financial contribution, we prevent the emergence of greater economic damage in the case of fruit buyers who are professionally engaged in the production of grapes and wine. A few minor amendments to the law have been proposed to remove administrative obstacles, simplify procedures, transit procedures, establish a system for collecting and expediting phytosanitary charges and align criminal provisions with the offence law. Thus, for example, the law introduces a simplified system of application for a register which will now be electronic or classical, making the business of public administration clients easier and more economical. The bill also abolishes administrative fees in the application for compensation for destroyed and infected plants for which destruction has been determined by the inspector to prevent the spread and control of harmful organisms. It is proposed that certain costs of phytosanitary measures be included, in particular the costs of disinfectants, disinfectants, sterilisation, cleaning or other treatments to be carried out either officially or at the request of the holder with a claim for compensation. The bill also simplifies the procedure for the control of transit consignments. The current law provides for mandatory phytosanitary control of all transit consignments which have been translated and not packed in containers as if they were import consignments. Since the phytosanitary examination, in addition to the review of the identity documentation, includes a health review of the consignments, this required a number of parts of the phytosanitary inspectors, particularly in Luka Koper, where a large number of consignments of fruit, wood and other plant goods are translated and temporarily stored in transit. The proposed amendments to the law provide a basis for abandoning the health inspection of the transit consignment, taking into account the risk assessment that there is no risk of a risk to plant health, thereby reducing the costs of the charges, which may directly increase the competitive capacity of Luke and of other entities involved in the transit procedures. Complementary provisions for the collection, separation, recovery and ageing of fees for phytosanitary checks and for the determination of the appropriate amount of fine for offences are intended to ensure the effective implementation of the prescribed measures, the result of which is in the public interest of preserving plant health and biodiversity. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr Jarz, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. The main purpose of amending and supplementing the law is to provide a legal basis for action in the event of a mass outbreak of harmful organisms within the Republic of Slovenia, where the Directive, which has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order, lays down protective measures and controls in the event of an outbreak of pests in the common European market, not in the event of an outbreak or outbreak in the Member States. In this way, we believe that from a systemic point of view, the need to take action when harmful organisms occur and erupt in our country is sufficient to prevent and remedy harm. Many plant processors have already suffered from a natural disaster either in the form of adverse weather conditions or in the form of an outbreak of disease or crop destruction due to the excessive reproduction of a pest. A typical example of reproduction of a pest in the body is a May bug. The economic damage of bugs is caused in all its stages of development and is a polyphasic pest, as it eats numerous cultural and forest plants. However, the greatest damage is caused in the second year of development, since it is then most devoured by rapid growth. Although producers are entitled to reimbursement for the damage, experience has shown that the implementation of measures to combat is not sufficiently effective. It turns out that not all or at least not all of them have done so in the same and equally effective way. Therefore, in DeSUS, we agree with the proposed solution that the implementation of measures to combat and prevent various types of pests and other plant diseases in the affected areas would no longer be left to individuals and that this would be imposed on competent plant health operators. This is also important to ensure that budgetary resources are spent more rationally for these purposes. The appropriate legal basis for phytosanitary measures and their consistent implementation may prevent or substantially mitigate not only economic but also environmental damage, but we also know that some organisms may be directly hazardous to human and animal health. In this respect, we therefore believe that the applicant has taken a positive approach to establishing an effective system for the implementation of the necessary measures to prevent and combat pests. According to the new content of the compensation provision, we also assess that the procedure for the enforcement of damages in the proposal is more appropriate than the current one, because it also creates material conditions for the victims to actually have to take all necessary and prescribed measures, which is also in the public interest and at the same time in the interest of our Group of Members. We will therefore support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr Bojan Homan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished minister, fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished viewers at home in front of TV sets! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the plant health law, an urgent procedure. The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law as urgently as possible with a view to establishing a legal basis for the establishment of a system for the prevention and control of all plant-related diseases. It is essential that the law be put into force as soon as possible, as it is necessary to amend and supplement the law, which has been necessary since 2007 to control and implement official phytosanitary measures in plant diseases and pests that have arisen or multiplied. These are mainly Maya bugs, ogres or kebras, as you say. They cause significant economic damage which poses a risk to the health care of seed and propagating material of agricultural plants. Small changes are also proposed to remove administrative barriers, simplify procedures for the transit of plant consignments and allow for the reimbursement of certain costs of measures taken to prevent and suppress harmful organisms. Therefore, it makes sense for these novelties to be implemented as soon as possible. The oldest case of such diseases dates back to history. The first such case was discovered in 1845 in Ireland, where they suffered a great deal of damage due to potato dancing. At the time, the fungal agent was not known and considered to be causing cold and rainy weather, but that was not the case. Only in the middle of the 19th century did they detect the cause of harmful diseases. These are microscopically small pests, or bacteria, that cause plant diseases. We have two such diseases in Slovenia. Two diseases, cane cancer and rosary of vines have occurred in the production of stem vines. In the case of seemingly healthy orchards produced under official supervision and registered producers, a disease that is characteristic and permanently reduced the quality of crops and plants develops after planting on a permanent site. This means that these plants should be deliberately removed, but in this case the owner or the grower would be compensated for the seedlings. Another such extensive case is in the congregation of Idrija, where a massive phenomenon of the Polish Mayan bug was observed. Its larvae destroyed grass on the black market in the villages of Zadlog, Idrijski Log and in the area of Black Vrh, Predgriž and Godovic, where 63 farms were threatened, of which 22 were pure livestock farms. The Greeks completely destroyed lawns at about 600 square hectares, farmers had to pick up feed or sell livestock and wait for the outbreak of these "kebras" to change. Unfortunately, this did not happen, so in 2005-2006 there was a recurrence of injury. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a rehabilitation programme and in 2005 eliminated the phenomenon of the May bug as a natural disaster. However, measures against the May bug have been insufficiently implemented and it is therefore appropriate to do so on all farms equally under the professional supervision of the agricultural advisory service. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this bill in the hope that it would not have to be implemented in 2007 and beyond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Plant Health Act. We also support the urgent process, as it is necessary to establish a system framework for the prevention and control of all plant diseases and pests in cases of their mass occurrence or reproduction, in order to remedy the consequences of a natural disaster. I drew attention to this harmful phenomenon for the first time with a question already in September 2005 and then five more times, especially former Minister Marija Lukačič and last March the new Minister of Agriculture, Mr Iztok Jarc. In this way, measures were gradually being taken to suppress cucumbers or larvae of the Mayan beetle, which had mainly affected agricultural areas in the municipalities of Idrija, Logatec and Lenart. First, farmers were entitled to partial reimbursement of the costs of repression, then the mass phenomenon of the May bug was defined as a natural disaster under the Law on Protection against Natural Disasters. Today, however, the amendment of the Plant Health Act introduces changes that are necessary already in 2007 for the management and implementation of official phytosanitary measures in plant diseases and pests that have arisen massively. The most extensive is the reproducing of collars of the Mayan bug, thus causing great economic damage. However, in the production of stem plants and vine seed, they are confronted with the prevention of the spread of cane cancer and rye. These have been the two most obvious cases lately. The Basic Law on Plant Health was adopted in 2001 and in the last two years the profession and the public service in this area, particularly the agricultural and advisory services experts, have found that the arrangements for action against plant pests are insufficient and have contributed to the adverse weather conditions which have increased the occurrence of individual diseases. These findings have also been the red thread of my questions in the last three years. As early as 2001, a strong phenomenon of the Mayan beetle was observed in Idria, which is characterized by the occasionally enormous propagation and damage to green areas of shrubs and trees, while their larvae are eaten with the roots of green plants. Due to the resurgence of the May bug in the municipality of Idrija, there has been extensive damage in agricultural plants, where underground areas have been eating the larvae of the Polish Mayan bug. The most affected agricultural land is on the Montenegrin plateau in the municipality of Idrija. The phenomenon is also spreading to the territory of the neighbouring municipality of Logatec and will continue to spread towards Ljubljana in the future, with the failure to suppress this scourge. The phenomenon was also observed to a lesser extent in some other municipalities in Slovenia, and especially in Lenart. After three consecutive three - year bug cycles, we entered the new bug year. But the damage has been extremely severe so far. The Mayan beetles literally devour the meadows. In 2005 alone, 800 hectares of grasslands were destroyed and more than 70% of livestock feed was collected by some farmers in the affected area. Farmers even think about selling their livestock because they no longer see the prospect of farming. For many years, the agricultural profession has warned the authorities in the state administration that this is actually a natural disaster. Thus, farmers received the first compensation from the State only last year, and previously they were assisted only in the framework of state solidarity and municipal budgets, but also in a small amount from the State budget, which, of course, was far from sufficient to compensate for damage and to remedy agricultural areas. In addition, it is indisputable that the competent services of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment have reacted too late in 2005 in the granting of licences for the use of funds for the suppression of the May bug. Thus, two years ago, recovery began only in June, which was apparently too late and therefore ineffective. Last year, too, recovery funds were available only in early May, instead of at least a month earlier. It is likely that more farmers would have decided to use fungi as well as granulated insecticide if they had already known in April that the funds would be provided. Where farmers on their own and with their own costs have acted in a timely manner, the results are very good. After the new, systematic bio-repression based on the adopted novel will begin in August 2007 and will continue in the spring of 2008 and 2009. Costs [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Some 600, 450 euros per hectare, and some 600 hectares of land will need to be repaired. [[...]] We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u91	Hello again! We have a proposal for a plant health law under urgent procedure. As well as the adoption process itself, the Government has proposed to deal with the natural disasters caused by diseases and pests that are excessively propagated. Official phytosanitary measures to be carried out by an authorised professional institution shall be envisaged in order to prevent an outbreak or further widespread mass occurrence of the pest or disease resulting in major economic damage, jeopardising the environment or health status of plants, animals, humans. At the same time, the amendment simplifies some administrative procedures such as the elimination of certain health checks in transit consignments that do not pose a risk to plant health, of course on the basis of a risk assessment. In the event of a mass outbreak of harmful organisms, rapid and effective action, especially at the right time, is a prerequisite for limiting an outbreak of disease or pest. Thus, mainly their larvae in the wider Idrija area and in neighbouring municipalities have caused considerable economic and environmental damage and threaten the existence of agriculture and farms themselves. Completely destroyed grass ruins, additional loads of agricultural areas with insecticides, the eating of leafy areas of trees endangers the existence of agriculture and thus families, people living there and thus only population in endangered areas. The owners of agricultural land themselves have received from the removal of the consequences of natural disasters some funds for the purchase of feed over the past two years, as well as assistance in the execution of pest control, but the problem has not been systematically resolved by limiting reproduction. Following this amendment, the legal basis for official measures and the means of official operators of pest control measures is now at a minimum which will not constitute economic, environmental and other damage, which is part of natural disasters. The law also mentions cane cancer and the restriction of the spread of this disease from reeds. This allows and provides the means for analysis of cane vaccines that are intended to be infected, as well as for compensation for destroyed orchards. These measures are intended to prevent the further spread of cane cancer in vineyards in permanent crops. After this novelty, the necessary financial resources from the budget, both resources for analysis, operators, phytosanitary measures and compensation for lost seed material, shall be provided. In Novi Slovenija, we will simply support the proposed amendment of the law because the legal basis has been given to tackle the systematic repression of a natural pest, which has been devastating the landscape for several years and is not manageable by conventional measures. This year it is once again threatened by its devastation when the so-called 'kebra year' is once again given opportunities for stoning and bountifulness if we do not act. That is why the end of summer will be of grassy grassy fungi, which will prevent the development of the bug’s foothold. Experiences and actions by neighbouring countries will implement a measure that is not hazardous to living nature, watercourses and other environments. In the event of favourable weather conditions and consistent implementation of measures, the establishment of a normal population of the May bug is expected, but it is no longer a natural hazard. Of course, the law is also the basis for the resolution of other such scourges, which are reproducing and are not controlled by normal measures because they are treated as natural disasters. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the draft law in the context of the urgent procedure. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will decide on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, immediately after the conclusion of the first item of the agenda, which is, on the question of Members and Members, to the Presidents of the Government. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the continuation of point 1, which is with questions from Members and Members of Parliament to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to the continuation of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. Under this item, Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, will answer four questions from members of the opposition and from the ruling coalition. The first question will be asked by Mr Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Minister and Ministers. When we finished our work very well last night in Parliament, the public broadcasting central Dnevnik began with shocking news: a new affair involving secret services broke out in Parliament. Thus, according to the data from the central active record, Member Dušan Kumer has a record of a civil security officer. The paper was prepared by the same journalist, the public television theologian, where you, the president, recently spoke to him about the background of the Owl’s activities, where you were stealing and about listening devices and problems in the Sovea agency itself. And the shocking disclosure appeared on the above-mentioned television, interestingly, just the day before I asked you, the President of the Government, what impact did recent events have in Owl, such as the alleged illegal intervention of your partner at the operational level of the Owl, the international reputation of the Owl and thus the international reputation of Slovenia? I also wanted to ask you, President: How will you ensure an adequate level of trust in the Sovo by the competent partner services and thus ensure greater national security? Thus we are witnessing the already seen methods of political discrediting of those who point to the problem and those who are supposed to monitor the legality of the Owl’s operation in this particular case. Dušan Kumer from Podutik, this is my trifle, so before the National Assembly I publicly state that I have never been in any way with my knowledge and approval of any civil security service. It is obvious manipulation and abuse, so, Prime Minister, I ask you: How will you act in the event of an eccentric violation of the Owl Act by unauthorized persons and thus show that you are not on the side of those who want to do so in any way? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] discredit my work, the work of some of my co-workers and the work of the parliamentary supervisory commission? [[...]] Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you so much for asking. In view of the fact that the Government's working group, which we have set up to remedy some of the uncertainties and to prevent future abuses that have taken place in this service, unfortunately, even after the independence, has only completed the work after the first point and is preparing an interim report, which the Government has adopted at its previous meeting concerning the management of the archives, I can answer about this work. I will be able to answer the other questions when the Government has before it the remaining parts of the Working Group's report or the report as a whole. The problem is not what it would have been like to see a civil servant who is responsible for the work of the National Security Council come to the premises of a government service. I don't know how this would jeopardize the work of this job. This is just as we would say that the entry of the President of Parliament into the office of the head of one of the professional services in Parliament threatened the work of Parliament. This is something that should not even be commented on in a normal country. But it's obvious here that since this task force started working, someone has become very nervous. It tries to distract the public from the real problems that are being studied, and some totalitarian patterns of the conduct of similar services are also being advocated at the time before the independence and, as shown below, at least in certain segments after the independence. These doubts will be clarified sooner, and the credibility of this service will be greater. As far as the international cooperation of this service is concerned, I think that I have all the data that I can use to ensure that it is going on normally. However, I doubt that anyone else in this room has such or conflicting information, because if that were true, it would be illegal. On this issue, I can say calmly that there is no fear. As has already been said, sooner these doubts will be resolved, sooner credibility will be unobstructed or restored and sooner it will be possible to avoid any suspicion in the direction of the perceptions you are proposing. As for the various accusations, who was and who was not a member of the former State Security Service or the Udba, this occurs to us because this issue has never been cleared because the archives were destroyed in the period before the independence of up to three quarters because it was not possible to do so in the manner regulated by most of the transition countries. That's why the possibility of manipulation is always open. Even when we were in the opposition, we proposed a law to regulate these things. It is known who voted in favour and who voted against it. That was almost 10 years ago. Those who complain today were the ones who were most opposed to the way things were handled. In this particular case, which you have highlighted, let me of course say that I do not feel obliged to answer the question of what national television does. Perhaps this was a point in the previous term, when your former president was at the head of the key body of this television, you must have had such a relationship and you could have talked this way, now these relations are gone. In fact, the charges relating to your account do not, in my opinion, hold because the State Security Service in the previous regime prior to independence was not a normal state service, but it was the political police, who were subordinated to the political party, the only one who existed, were the real Communist Party or the Communists and the communists' officials who were in charge of this service, so they were not their co-workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u98	Now I have to answer this last one first. I became a functionary just before 1990, so even after you, you were formerly an official within the social political organizations over which the patronage of the former communist union was over, but this is for another debate. I agree with your assessment that there is never too much control over secret services, and I think it is also important and desirable that this professional supervision of the government working group within the institution itself is also important and desirable. However, I think it may be from someone else that both parliamentary and governmental, such as the supervision of the Ombudsman, must be within the scope of the Owl Act so as not to interfere with the operational level. We have so far received only indications on the Commission that this is possible, we have not yet accepted the final report, and some have found that this is a violation. And last but not least, the crisis in Owl and this attention in the public, which is taking place in the eyes of the domestic and diplomatic public, is, in my opinion, the result of disputed methods and approaches to people who are destined to forgive after the government's decision, this is 20%. Not discussions, but some kind of hearing, which may mostly already be beyond legitimacy and legality, is causing these problems that we are now witnessing to the public. So it is not the work of our parliamentary commission or the work of a government working group, but it is this relationship within the Sova itself that those who have this task to carry out this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question, although I think there was no question, there was some claim. As for the time before 1990 and before the democratic changes, I think you were the official of this party who supervised the secret service and managed it at a time when this service carried out arrests in Slovenia, including my trifles, Borštner, or this was prepared by Tasić. So I wouldn't take these comparisons as easily as you listed here. Even though it is extremely unusual and very rare, I think that there is also a unique case in Slovenia that former totalitarian or sole party officials who have managed secret services are now in control of the services created on this basis, and there are very few such cases in Europe. I don't think we could practically find him if we were looking for them in the European Parliaments. As for the contents of the question, or problem, that you have opened, I think the rabbit is in the other bush. What has been found by the Working Group on Archives is very worrying. For eight years, the Owl Act has been violated, and for a long time, the Archives Act has been violated. It's not just some scholastic question! On the basis of the fact that certain archives were not available, hundreds of concrete citizens and citizens of that country were prevented from exercising rights in accordance with the legislation on the correction of wrongs adopted in this House, their constitutional rights were denied, their fundamental human rights were violated, and empty excuses were violated if there was no room in the archives of Slovenia for such archives, and no one was convinced. In the Archives of Slovenia there is room for archives of feudalism, in which no one exercises any rights, at least I do not know of any such case for this particular period, where thousands of people are still affected, seeking their right under the legislation adopted, and this right has been denied precisely because of the concealment of archives that have been located everywhere, simply because of the concealment of a certain past, despite the fact that it has had concrete material and also serious moral consequences for thousands of people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thanks again for saying that. In the context of Article 246 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, I propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a debate on this at one of the future meetings. Mr. President! I believe that we have both raised a number of questions today, and it is not possible to do so today in these few minutes, which we have at our disposal for this mutual dialogue. That is why I expect that the Government itself, irrespective of my proposal, when the report is prepared, will propose to the National Assembly that we hold this public debate. With regard to some of the claims that you have made, I think you have made them in a very easy way for me in the past, with some views that concern culture above people, but I fully agree with you, and I have already said that for some things also with some sympathy. Therefore, once again, I think that the working group of the Government and this two- and-a-half-year work of this parliamentary supervisory commission, the Parliamentary Commission, are primarily concerned with the functioning of the Soviet Union in these last 15 years and especially in recent years, if we want to improve things in Owl. Of course, at least on our committee, we don't care so much about work before. However, if we are going to talk about archives, then I suggest that you look into the archive in the Government, where the Commission, when Mr Jerovšek led it, my colleague, 2003 and 2004 all of the conclusions now listed, along with the documents which the documents where they are and so on - were concluded an agreement between the Slovenian Archives and the Owl Agency to keep it for a while. Once again, many questions are open and I therefore propose and hope that the Government will also come with this proposal to make a special meeting of the National Assembly on Owl and Owl. It's impossible for us to have a situation today when we have an Owl in Owl. I think that's the biggest problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u103	On the proposal by Mr Kumar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide today at the time of the vote. The next, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, will ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government! I wonder: With what additional measures does the Government intend to address the housing problem of young families? Indeed, the fact is that prices also increased by 15% in Ljubljana last year, in Maribor by 18%, the same in Gorenjska, with the price of a square meter of real estate in Ljubljana housing already around 3,000 euros. According to last year's Geodetics Administration, the average price for older dwellings was already 2,250 euros. If I say otherwise, someone with an average salary should save up to 25 years for 80 square meters a large apartment in Ljubljana, which is of course a very long time. This also leaves young people at home for up to 30 years and over. This, of course, results not only in economic problems, but also in sociological problems and also in low fertility. In short, all the measures taken by the Government so far are in the direction of subsidising young families, but this subsidy, which you took last week in the Government, which amounts to € 160 per family member, is problematic. For the first time, because, for example, in the case of a three-member family in 8 years, it only amounts to a square metre of apartment in Ljubljana. Secondly, because it works on the demand side and only increases the price of real estate, while on the offer side, which would lower the price of real estate and allow young families access to real estate, virtually nothing has been done. There are still not enough wally building plots, apparently there is still a strong real estate lobby that tightens its hunters everywhere. I must say that I am fully aware that the problems are not from yesterday, this has to be acknowledged, the problem has been lingering for a long time, but Slovenia is still the country where the relationship between real estate prices and between family incomes is the highest in the field of the European Union. And young families today simply cannot get to an apartment or apartment house with their income, especially in the capital, because prices are enormously high. So I would like to ask: What additional measures do you intend to take to address this housing problem, especially for young families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you so much for asking. This problem can and needs to be solved at two levels, one is the creation of general conditions whereby the real estate market will be regulated in such a way as to effectively express the full relationship between supply and demand in terms of the real situation. Now there are still many disturbances on this market, which are mainly expressed in the end mainly at extremely high prices, which have grown enormously in recent years, not at most from last year to this year, but the trend has not been stopped. The high price of dwellings, especially in urban centres, Ljubljana is here leaving, is also largely due to long and expensive construction procedures, to change destination; in short, so-called bureaucratic barriers, whose part we have already removed, some will be eliminated, some important ones will be removed under legislation that has been or will be adopted this year. This will certainly have a positive impact on the entire real estate or housing market, which is also a key thing to be done. Specific measures are possible and necessary at the second level. Slovenia has already established a state fund, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supposed to contribute to this through concrete measures that will never be able to cover the full range of needs, but can alleviate some of the worst problems, and this has already happened in part, and efforts have now been reinforced in this direction. A proposal for amendments to the Act on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies adopted by the Government last week was sent to the parliamentary debate. This is where he takes advantage of the remaining manoeuvre space that has not been exploited so far. The news is, for example, the part where rental subsidies are allowed, and it is also very important that the news allows families to be entitled to a subsidy in addition to buying and building housing reconstruction. Here, especially in urban centres, there are many potential residential areas, unbuilt, unrenovated and many, especially young families, which can solve their housing problem not only by buying a new apartment or by remodeling, but also by adapting existing residential areas in the parent’s home, or by renting such a place, watching it, remodeling it and so on. So far there has been no possibility of a subsidy for such interventions, and now the new law makes this possible. The amount of the subsidy belonging to the young family member will now no longer be established in the law, will be determined in the sub-laws due to flexibility and the possibility of raising or adapting to realistic options. Specific data show, for example, that the measures at this second level, which I am talking about, partially eased this problem last year, so that in 2006 442 apartments were handed over to end-users, of which 213 were provided by the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Last year, the fund called for a co-financing programme for the construction of non-profit rental apartments for last year and for this year at the rate of five billion, which is much more than before. And the Fund has also taken a number of concrete steps or measures to ensure that land is cheaper, so that the final price of the square metre of these apartments can be cheaper, in locations that do not represent a centre in some urban settlements, but are still very attractive, especially for young families. So much for this, once again, I stress that it is two-level action and that it is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the first, most important, and this is also largely related to the systemic changes that are coming to the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thanks for the answer. In the part where you talk mainly about subsidising young families, I am particularly concerned, as I have already mentioned, that this will only have an additional impact on demand and on real estate prices. Indeed, this rent or subsidy granted by the State to young families is immediately passed through high prices to real estate owners or to those renting real estate to young families. In this way, I think the measures that work on the supply side are significantly more effective. Here, in particular, I think that the country and, of course, the housing fund must do more with regard to the supply of walled buildings; above all, the problem is that in Slovenia more than 80% of the apartments are owned and that the rental market is not functioning. Here young families are in a particularly difficult situation if, for example, they compete in calls in local communities for young families, and then, for example, the most absurd case that we can imagine is the case of a young couple where a young mother is in the fifth month of pregnancy, and they cannot apply as a young family because she is not yet born. In fact, young people are in a position to be irresponsible, to give birth to children practically on the road, and then to apply for these invitations. I say this because I actually want to show that the situation is difficult. I said that it is not from yesterday that this issue has dragged virtually everything since independence, in particular that the relationship between real estate prices and household income is worrying. Personally, I think, as I said, that the key role of both the state and the local communities on the offer side and also with further subsidies of the problem will not be fully resolved, but we will only add oil to the fire of already high real estate prices, especially in the capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u110	Well, all these findings aren't new, and that's just the state we want to change and change. The comparison of housing prices shows that there are also very large differences between Ljubljana and some other parts of Slovenia, in fact, that a more regional or future province is lagging behind after development for the central Slovenian region, the lower the price of dwellings. This is largely because there is less pressure or lower demand, and then the supply is appropriate. One factor that will change this image in the long term or help to change it will be the decentralisation of Slovenia, once it is possible that some important issues that directly or directly affect the price of the square metre of dwellings will be decided at the provincial level or at the local level, this instrument will come closer to those that can do something more, which will feel these problems more, and will certainly also reflect this in the reduction of the average price of the square metre of dwelling in Slovenia and more of the availability of these apartments; also where demand is now far more than the offer itself. But this is not the case everywhere in Slovenia, and this also generates these differences. In this regard, the importance of active land policy, not just the price of land in urban settlements, should be highlighted in particular as the final price of a square meter flat. In Slovenia, there are many unbuilt building sites, which are not managed most rationally, not when it comes to land owned by a country or by local communities. By transferring instruments, managing and decision-making to the provincial level from the state level and with a slightly better coordination at the provincial level when it comes to the resources of municipalities. The distribution of land, which is now in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Forests and Lands, where building or potential building land are also located, will make this problem significantly easier to solve organically in the future. This will have an impact on the greater supply, but also on the less pressure on only some centres and thus on the so much demand for housing that generates such prices. The difference between the price of a square meter apartment in Ljubljana and 50 kilometers away Kočev is 1 to 2, which is not only the result of different levels of development, but also of transport connections and in particular [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will ask the next question to the President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial assembly, distinguished president! At the beginning of this month, you have prepared in white a proposal for a so-called non-aggression pact during the Presidency of the European Union. In fact, none of the countries that have already presided over the European Union knows such a document. The costs are also high due to the necessary spatial and other capacity. The final assessment of these will probably not be known to the Government until after the end of the presidency. But unfortunately, this goes to the expense of the poverty of domestic social services, Your Honor. I ask: Is the Presidency of the European Union really the only important challenge for the Slovenian country? In point 5 of the agreement, which I have mentioned, you have written down 'the signatories of this Agreement will endeavour to ensure that the activities related to the Presidency of the European Union will not burden the internal political situation and matters of purely internal political importance'. On the other hand, there remain facts: a partial reform in the social field, which has negative consequences for users of services in particular social transfers. This was also observed last week by representatives of the Government at a meeting of the home work bodies in Parliament. Under the pretext of urgent budget savings, measures have been taken to lower the level of socio-economic security for the most affected groups. Health reform, waiting years are increasing, the quality of public services is falling, doctors are leaving. At the infamous operating tables and the Clinical Center came a new affair called the Pediatric Clinic. I was literally appalled by the presentation of the costs or only by the fact that three oncological institutes could be purchased with the financial means of purchasing armored equipment. [[Minister Erjavec and Minister Bručan have a cold smile.]] Reforms in the field of education, which will threaten the public education and education system, are lowering standards, etc. And I read: "Jansha has claimed that the new pension reform is not necessary and the government is not planning it." But today we all know that by the end of the year, just before the presidency, a law will be passed which, because of the bonus points, will actually intervene during the working time. Important changes are being prepared, Mr President, which will touch key areas of life in our country. These are internal political themes: quality of life, health, demographic picture, social security; in short, life of Slovenes and Slovenes. EU Presidency [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] is, I am aware, a very large contribution to Slovenia, but it must not be at the expense of citizens and citizens of our country. [[...]] Therefore, only a question which I also asked in writing: How will the system of power work? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you so much for asking. During the Presidency of Slovenia, the EU will not change the Slovenian Constitution, saying that the way the authorities operate will be exactly the same as it has been so far. It is only that the country will assume an additional obligation, which is an obligation of each Member State for six months. If we didn't hold the presidency in 2008, we'd do it later. Every novelty will be the first time in years to come. And there is no dilemma in this regard, and this was not an offer in this sense, whether you want to preside or not, because we have accepted this obligation by a referendum at which we decided to go to the EU. During the Presidency, the Government or the largest government party, since this is a proposal for an agreement by parliamentary parties, does not propose a non-aggression pact. We never used that word. And the text that we have proposed does not bear this title. The non-aggression pact was already discussed last year by the President of the Social Democrats. What exactly did he mean by that, I don't know. On our part, we have never proposed a text with such an address, nor a text with such a form, nor a text with such content. We're not in any war, so we don't need any non-aggression pacts either. However, we have proposed an agreement on the cooperation of parliamentary factors during the presidency. Such an agreement, unlike what was stated in the questions, has been reached practically in all EU countries at a time when these countries chaired the Union. It is true, however, that those auctions that have already presided many times, some six times, seven times, do not feel any need for such an agreement to be signed, because some practice of "ferple" - fair games that guarantees - and voters also accept this - has been established so that the issues of the Presidency are not used for internal political accounts. This does not mean, in any case, that there is also some kind of truce or, I do not know, a freeze on those of particular internal political importance. Although apples and pears often mix with us, this has also happened. The pediatric clinic has nothing to do with the presidency, nor does the Oncology Institute, and many other things, especially those that have been built in previous mandates, and this government has nothing to do with them. The decision on the purchase of armoured personnel was taken by the previous government, confirmed by the previous Parliament, the current parties of the government coalition had a significant minority at the time, only realizing the commitments made by the previous authorities to Euro-Atlantic integration. So an agreement is proposed on the cooperation of parliamentary factors during the Presidency. It is not a unilateral agreement, where something would be desired only by the opposition, that is an agreement that provides mutual information, involving the ideas of all parliamentary factors in the implementation of the Presidency programme. All preparations shall be made in accordance with the law which provides for the establishment of positions in Slovenia relating to the decision-making process in the European Union. You know that the National Assembly and its committee dealing with the affairs of the European Union has a strategic role here, and it is simply an attempt to make certain normal things that always take place in those countries of the European Union that have already presided many times in Slovenia at the time of the Presidency. It's not about anything else. Anyone who interprets this in the sense that it would be an act or an undertaking to prohibit the opposition from its constitutional role should read this text. Nothing in this agreement has anything to do with this. And it won't be wrong if we don't sign it, but we won't sign it, but I think it would be a bad signal from the outside. The eyes of the European Union are fixed on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] how Slovenia will complete the "finish" of these preparations for the presidency and how it will carry out this task. [[...]] We are the first new Member State to face this challenge, and our offer is simply that this is a common challenge [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Žgajner, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you very much. If this is a bad signal for Europe, it would undoubtedly be a good signal for our citizens and citizens, but allow the President, if I have missed the very name of the agreement, I am surprised that you could even answer and relate to the agreement. However, I believe that you are reading the newspapers and I myself have mentioned "the so-called non-aggression pact", which is what the media, the Slovenian media, have summarized. Allow me to stress once again, in the fifth point of the non-aggression agreement it is clear: the opposition is limited to its role - the warning of government errors that ultimately affect people, our people. You don't want to put the government above the legislative branch of power with this agreement either. You know, there's too much going on here to say it's a coincidence. At the end of March, the presidents of the working bodies of the legislative branch of the Government received instructions from the Secretary-General of the Government, on the same day also by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjati, on how we must act, how we can convene meetings and which documents we can require from the Government at all. There are too many related events to say it's a coincidence. And allow me. I have mentioned important internal political themes. From your answer to my question, it was only a departure from the real problems in our country and the possible priorities in your work. I hope you are still in the first place aware, Prime Minister of the Government, that you are the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not of the European Union. Last but not least, if you are in favour of such a constructive dialogue, answer me a simple question: Why has the government not shown constructiveness in three years, not responding to proposals, constructive proposals by opposition parties in this House?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u118	I must admit that I have some problems linking this issue to the topic that has been announced. As has already been said, neither the Government nor the coalition has proposed any non-aggression pact, which is why I do not feel competent to answer the questions related to this pact, nor does the content as interpreted come out of the agreement that we have proposed, so I do not know. Perhaps next time we can read the things we ask ourselves. As regards the need to participate in such projects as the Presidency of the European Union, it is not only the practice that has been established in other Member States of the European Union that we can look at our practice since joining Euro-Atlantic integration. At that time, we signed agreements between Parliamentary parties and Members and Members of both nationalities on working together for these objectives, both objectives were similar to those of the Presidency, which concerns efforts, although this Presidency is limited to half a year, but also to the year of preparation and then to half a year of direct work obligations in the troika. In other countries there were different practices at the time, Slovenia chose a good path, so it was also the first, the first to go from the countries established in the territory of the former Yugoslavia to the European Union, NATO, now also to the European Monetary Union, and certainly political unity contributed something to this speed. We have been practically all the time in the opposition and we have understood that this is something that goes beyond daily politics, and we have signed those agreements we have worked in accordance with them, some we have even proposed. I may have high expectations, or I may be overly optimistic if similar constructive behaviour on similar subjects is expected by the current government coalition from the opposition. Let me also say that at the meeting where we presented the content of the proposal for this agreement, many nights ago, there was no explicit opposition [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That step. [[...]] The president of your party also supported this proposal in principle, and in principle the proposal was supported by the President of the party, who later decided not to accede to the agreement. These are sovereign decisions, but the comparison between the time when the former opposition supported entry into Euro-Atlantic integration and, as it is now commented, this is an interesting comparison that can also give its [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] results. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I will also take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In particular, because I am not satisfied and I believe that my too many fellow Members and colleagues cannot be satisfied with such a misleading or dissuasive response from the President of the Government. If we are to achieve political unity, respected colleagues and colleagues, we should first of all achieve political unity, I don't know, in the area of social, domestic social, but we were unable to achieve it because of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the area of health - we were also not able to achieve political unity here. And allow me, Prime Minister, to praise you, of course, because you are clearly a master of your profession. And I know you're also a very, very good pragmatist. Last but not least, there's this document, this agreement, believe me, I know it, and I've read it, and it's hard not to know what you're reading when the agreement's written on the wrong four sides. It was commendable if you want, also your role in the previous term when you were still in these benches as an opposition member. And if we were still in the role of the opposition today, we would not have signed such a document. Not for the sake of unconstructiveness, but merely for the sake of the conscientious, proper exercise of its parliamentary function, in the role of the opposition, in the welfare of citizens and citizens of our country. I assess, once again, that this is a matter of restricting, restricting the opposition, restricting the work of Parliament. Finally, once again, I would like to point out that this is also indicated by the instructions of the Secretary-General of the Government and the President of the National Assembly, which comes from your political option. You mentioned that the agreement reflects political maturity and a responsible approach to trust the task. Good. If the government's ambition is really so pure and sincere, then either you will or the coalition Members and Members will be pleased to support the proposal to have a broader debate on this very important issue in the presence of the President of the Government, so that we will all be constructive together, I am in favour of this, and therefore I propose an expanded debate. And you know, we can also carry out this debate as the first test in a desire to strengthen awareness that Slovenian policy will be able to prove whether it is really capable of playing as a representative. If you support, my fellow Members and colleagues, my proposal, then you will undoubtedly show that you are ready for constructive cooperation and that you also care about what is happening to our citizens and citizens. Otherwise, you will, unfortunately, vote not to trust your President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you. On the proposal of Mrs Zgajner Tavš to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide today at the time of the vote. Mr Christian Janc will now ask the President of the Government a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues, welcome to all visitors to the National Assembly Gallery! President of the Government, we have recently been briefed on some key economic and public financial indicators both domestic and foreign institutions. For the first time in his report, the International Monetary Fund has placed Slovenia as the only new Member of the European Union among the developed countries, which undoubtedly means great success and confirms the proper direction of economic policies. The Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has also announced high economic growth in the coming years. In 2007, according to spring forecasts, the Government's macroeconomic development office can expect 4.7% economic growth and 4.4% in 2008. The Ministry of Finance has published information that the country's general sector deficit under ESA 95 methodology, which also serves as the Maastricht criteria, has been 1.4% lower since 2006, and 0.1% lower than in 2005. The debt of the country, which was 27.8% in 2006, also decreased by 0.6% compared to 2005. At the same time, it is very important that other economic data are also very good. We managed to keep inflation low and even after the euro took over, employment is rising and registered unemployment is falling. Dear President, given the data, we can optimistically expect that Slovenia, which in 2006 has reached around 83.5% of the average gross social income in the European Union, measured in purchasing power, will be approaching at a good pace the average of development in the European Union. Dear President, I would like to ask you: How do you comment on these data and what will the Government plan to do in the future in order to preserve such trends in the future or even improve them? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, we are somewhere at the beginning of the third period or at the beginning of the third half, concerning the implementation of the reform measures adopted at the beginning of the mandate, which are linked to the development strategy of Slovenia. The data provided by you and which are comparatively very favourable for Slovenia are partly a result of two factors: one is the results of the measures taken in the context of the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia, and the other is the result of the fact that Slovenia has arrived in the EU, on 1 January also in the European Monetary Union, in a developed environment, which has an objectively positive impact on our economic and social development. What is extremely important, as a result of these macroeconomic data, is the fact that Slovenia not only notes the increase in the stability of the macroeconomic environment and high economic growth, but also notes the reduction in unemployment, the increase in employment. By the way, now that the government has started with a second round of visits in Slovenian regions, we see at some point, last time it was in Maribor or Podravje, that the picture has changed dramatically in two years, just when it comes to this development and social issue, the question of employment or unemployment. Where two more years have gone by to see that one of the main problems is unemployment, after two years the problem is to find a suitable workforce in industrial industries that have become perspectives in two years is part of the Slovenian and wider conjucture, and these trends will be forecast or are forecast to be favourable for the coming medium-term period. This made unemployment last year 6%, the lowest rate since independence and, on the other hand, some of the profiles for the problem of labour shortages. What promises the sustainability of these results are some other data that were not mentioned; for example, the increase in value added in 2006. Last year, the increase in value added in Slovenian production was 5.3%, which is far the largest growth in the last 11 years, indicating that these economic results are not just the result of some trade, but that they are also the result of greater productivity, as a result that we know more with the same work. In this third third, the remaining measures needed to maintain and strengthen current trends will be implemented. The final phase is the negotiations of the social partners on labour law. Movements in this area are crucial for maintaining and improving these trends, especially when it comes to economic growth. I hope that we will be able to propose legislation as harmonised as possible this half-year. So we are strategically looking somewhere at a point where we also need to deal intensively with the issue not only of how to create more, because this is going pretty well, but also of how to ensure that these results are distributed fairly and regionally evenly across Slovenia. Unfortunately, there are still major developmental differences. This government is one of the measures to fix these things, it has already adopted a new law on the financing of municipalities, which is very positive for reducing these differences, and we will take a key step together if such will is to be done in this high assembly, with a package of legislation on landscapes, which is one of the key challenges ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you. This concludes the questions and answers of the President of the Government. I thank the President of the Government for his participation, and I also thank the ministerial assembly for its presence, and thus interrupt this item on the agenda. We are now moving to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I leave the leadership to Vice President Klavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u126	We continue the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of restriction of competition, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. 51 Members and Members voted in favour, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport - the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a legislative proposal. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - with the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on private protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 16. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the home labour body for a second reading. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 7a of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 16. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Proceed with interrupt 7b. Point of the agenda - this is by considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Plant Health Act, an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Germić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health of Mags. Andrej Bručan on Mr Ljub Germić's question about the complications concerning the technical equipment of hospitals." We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mr Rudolph Mojet's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Juret Zupan, to Mr Rudolf Mojet's question of the agreement to use the University's credit in Primorska to complete the Armeria and Forresteria project." Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Check-in is on. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you. On the question posed by Minister Zupan, he asked why he did not issue an agreement on the use of credit to enable the completion of the Armeria and Forresteria project in Cyprus and why it impedes the normal development of the youngest university. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not support this proposal because we believe that this debate will not help in any way to resolve the problem that has been raised in the parliamentary question. In addition, it should be pointed out that the investment by Armeria, Foresteria, is completed, is being relocated in these days, so that the clearance of the circumstances that led to the increased investment will not interfere in any way with the functioning of the University of Primorska, which was evident to the Minister on Monday. By demanding a clean account, Minister Zupan does not obstruct the development of the university. On the move, the head of the University of Primorsk, which has to explain to the competent ministry the reasons for the increase in the investment of Armeria and Forresterie, which has increased from €4.11 million originally foreseen, i.e. around a billion tolars, to the final value of €7.94 million, or almost two billion former Slovenian tolars. Therefore, the investment almost doubled during this period. Otherwise, the State or the competent ministry has provided substantial budgetary resources for this investment so far: in 2004-2007 at 907 million tolars and in this year another 113 million tolars of budgetary money are foreseen, and the obligation to pay up to the amount of the former 692 million tolars was provided for under the Guarantee Act. In doing so, it is important that the other investments undertaken by the University of Primorsk are ongoing. Today in Primorski novice we can read a beautiful article in autumn in a new building, referring to the building of the future tourist, which was also provided for in this law. Therefore, we cannot talk about the fact that the law that we put into the legislative procedure after there was a lot of talk at different levels, but I have to say a little concrete action, has been tabled by Members of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. The law, as you know, has received unanimous support in the National Assembly. For these reasons, I do not think we can talk about the non-implementation of this law. We therefore believe that an additional debate would not help to speed up the implementation of the law in any way. On the contrary. I would have made it difficult to regulate the situation, and I would have been my own target. However, we expect the resources adopted last year to enable the development of the University of Primorsk, rationally and optimally to be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? In his own name, the application runs. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'll support this debate myself. But I will support it not because I think that the debate itself can make a significant contribution to anything that can happen at the university. I will also support it because I cannot agree with my colleagues from the SDS who believe that any debate, any debate in the National Assembly, is hampering the government's plans, in this case at the university, for the second time in the media, for the third time in the economy and so on. This is, I will say, an unacceptable argument for Parliament and, for this reason, it is simply necessary to hold debates here and the accounts that are placed in front of all parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We're voting. 55 Members and Members voted in favour, 14. Against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Excuse me, Mr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u131	I'm sorry, Mr Vice President, but I've tried several times and my device hasn't worked.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u132	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u133	Yeah, I'm even more sorry. I want to vote, but I can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u134	Is the device working now?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u135	Well, the light's on fire, but please repeat the vote, because the light was on fire before, and they didn't react to the keys.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u136	I'm sorry. There was only one name on the screen, Mr. Skolcz. We're moving on. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Squikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health Mag. Andre Bručan to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members, the application is pending. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members of Parliament. On Monday, I asked Minister Bručan and the absent Mr Bajuk a very simple question: How is it possible to hire a quarter of a million euro tax advice to install electrical cables at the Pediatric Clinic? And: How can it be entered into a contract between a contracting entity, one of the companies Macro 5 Investments - said one of the companies owned by Istria Benz - and contractors, the companies of the economic advisor SDS Domna Zavrla that this contract depends on whether the electrical cable operator will sign the contract, an annex to the contract with the Ministry of Health for the project of the paediatric clinic? It's 51 million tolars plus VAT. Treaty - signed on 20 July 2006, first payment made under this contract 14 days later. I would like to ask Mr Bručan and Mr Bajuk: What is the content of tax advice, a 250 000-euro business advice, a quarter of a million euros, 500 workers' salaries? Is this a new way of picking up cream? And Mr Bayuk, who, for the third time in a row, apologized to us, I wanted to ask that, with the help of the authorities he has, it would be good to see what is being paid from state money. Especially since it has been clear in recent weeks that Mr Zavrla's company is extremely protected by the Director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, I hope that it is not because the companies of the Director of Tax Administration are carrying out tax advice. Mr. Director of Tax Administration said something yesterday, and Mr. Bručan and Mr. Bajuk I have not heard a reply: What about a quarter million euros in tax advice for the installation of electric cables in a paediatric clinic? I think it is right to hold a public debate on this. I hope you will support this, if not, we will use the other business options to get to the bottom of how public money is used in Slovenia during your reign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u138	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 15, for 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mr Boštjan Zagorec's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister without a licence responsible for local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar, to the question of Mr Boštjan Zagorec's parliamentary question on Magma's investment in the North-East Slovenia area." We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Slavko Gabra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Juret Zupana, to the question of Mr Slavko Gabra, on the draft law on higher education and research and development." Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! In New Slovenia, we will not support this proposal from our fellow Member, Dr Gabra, because at the moment it is not necessary and this proposal is premature. Discussing the draft of a law that is now being passed on to universities, colleges, is pointless at this point. For, colleges, as the Minister replied to him yesterday, and I was one of the few - or Monday - I was one of the few, which I also heard; colleges - universities will now have the opportunity to make their comments on this draft proposal, and only then will come up with a proposal that will go to the government procedure and then come to the National Assembly. And then Mr Gaber, now an independent Member, will have to collect ten more signatures from his colleagues or nine and then propose in the National Assembly - if he thinks it is necessary - a general debate on this bill. On the other hand, yesterday, the Minister made it clear to him who these drafts were, and there is no need at this time that we are opening a public debate or debate on this draft law at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. 58 Members and Members voted, 16 to 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mr Dusan Kumr's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Dusan Kumr's question on the functioning of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency." We're voting. There are 56 Members present and 15 votes against 41. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janš to Mrs Žgajner Tavš's question on how the government will operate in the first half of next year." On behalf of the Group of Members, the application is pending. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. I believe I've been exhausted enough before, and I've said the whole thing. Allow me to say another sentence just to guide you or to guide you. But I believe that he said it a little unhappiness a few days ago. He says we can't miss the forest because of the trees. I would like to point out here that because of the forest we must not overlook and ignore individual trees. May this, your fellow Members and colleagues, also lead to a reflection on how you will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself will support this proposal, as I intended to support it with the word of the previous one. So allow me, because I have not received a word before, I say now that it is very good if at least one of the discussions, in response to the President of the Government in this assembly, were to try this distance here between what the Government, its President and the parties supporting it are proclaiming and the actions that this Government and those who follow it are doing. In the previous question one was asked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u144	Mr Školč, we are talking about the current proposal for a decision and an explanation of the vote of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u145	That's right, Mr. Vice President. Before that, you didn't say a word to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u146	That's what I want to tell you. First and last time. I look all over the hall and don't wait to raise my hand this time when I finally look my head in the direction of the screen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u147	Mr Vice President, my time has run out, but this will not save you from participating in a discussion in the National Assembly when it comes to key issues. We are now discussing having some kind of non-aggression pact. And the government services are leaking information that our colleagues are disseding as members of secret services. The Prime Minister doesn't want to answer that, but he's talking about the careers of people in his previous term. These are the discussions that are worth linking to a serious debate in this assembly, so that people will once fully understand that this government is speaking one thing and doing something completely different; that this agreement is sand in the eyes of those who do not want to see major violations occurring in government premises with the apparent authorisation of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. I want to tell you again, you broke the rules of procedure, because you were talking about something else that you applied for. We're moving on. The vote is under way. 59 Members and Members voted in favour, 13 votes against 43. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
