ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Dušan Kumer, Darja Lavtišar Bebler, Martin Mikolič from 1300 onwards, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Mr Alojz Sok. We're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION LAW, in accordance with the decision we voted yesterday to replace the agenda items. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Aleš Gulič requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Secretary of State of Zinrajh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Republic of Slovenia, as a full member of the European Union, participates in the creation of a European legal order and is, as such, obliged to implement it. The Member States of the European Union want to unify the area of migration and asylum at European level and thus ensure the necessary international protection for third-country nationals while at the same time ensuring the control of migration flows. The aim of the European Union is to gradually create an area of freedom, security and rights open to all who are forced by circumstances to legitimately seek protection. On the basis of the provisions of the Multiannual Hague Programme, a common policy of protection against persecution of third-country nationals, including the Common European Asylum System, should be established at the European level. A new regime of international protection also requires the introduction of the Schengen Information System in the Republic of Slovenia, which will manage internal borders within the Union itself. At the external borders, where Slovenia naturally judges geographically, increased control of migration and thus international protection are expected. The area of asylum is a constitutionally protected category in the Republic of Slovenia. Unlike migration for economic, social, health and other reasons, asylum is a type of forced, unplanned migration and is therefore subject to a number of guarantees and standards, which are laid down primarily by international standards and regulations, which democratic countries are obliged to respect. The legal basis of the common European asylum system shall be laid down by Directives governing the area of admission of applicants for international protection, the grounds and conditions for international protection and the procedure for obtaining and withdrawing international protection, and by a Regulation laying down criteria for determining the competent State to deal with the application. Before us, honourable Members and Members, a legal proposal that fully transposes legal acts forming a common asylum system into national legislation, thus establishing an asylum system, is comparable to those of the European Union. It introduces a new term of "international protection", which is substantively consistent with the new European concept of the granting of a detention facility, which is significantly broader as refugee status extends to subsidiary protection. The Law on International Protection will systematically regulate the entire area of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a roof law containing substantive and procedural provisions of international protection. The adoption of the Law on International Protection is necessary in order to fully transpose the provisions of the Common European Asylum System into national law. Its purpose is to introduce legal, effective and rapid asylum procedures that provide the necessary protection for third-country nationals while at the same time enabling them to integrate into our Slovenian society. In the event of a negative decision, however, the immediate return of a foreigner to his country of origin. This is therefore a more rational approach in the conduct of the procedure. It introduces a single asylum procedure which is a fundamental element of the European Common Asylum System. The official shall first determine the conditions for the status of the fugitive and then, without a new application for subsidiary protection in the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative proposal also regulates the conduct of a regular and accelerated procedure for obtaining international protection. It further lays down the conditions for the introduction of special procedures which are not subject to substantive decision-making. The draft law provides for judicial protection against the decision of the first-degree authority, which, with regard to the right of appeal to the Supreme Court, provides for more special measures than provided for in the law governing the administrative dispute. The appeal to the Supreme Court is possible in all cases and not only in disputes of full jurisdiction, which allows applicants further legal certainty in international protection proceedings. The draft law equates the scope and type of rights of the refugee and of persons with recognised subsidiary protection, except for the duration of the residence permit. The refugee is granted a permanent residence permit by recognition of his status and, in particular, a three-year residence permit with a two-year extension. As a special novelty, the bill introduces the possibility of permanent relocation of refugees to the Republic of Slovenia from the countries of first asylum, which is a sign of solidarity of assistance to persons in need. This quota shall be fixed by the Government. I propose that this bill, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman! I'd like to have the answer to the next question. Yesterday we adopted the agenda that we requested - for today, the agenda was adopted where the 1st item of the Income Act was to be and so on - and then yesterday a letter came to the government, referring to the absence of Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Mate, and therefore asking that this law be considered at 9 a.m. This was also accepted in accordance with the letter yesterday. I know the Minister, but I don't remember Mr Minister speaking to us. So, what's he holding? Is this document kept by the Government and signed by the Secretary-General? Has there been another change? So, why have we changed? In order to hear the Minister of Home Affairs here at 9 a.m., the agenda changes a number of today's obligations of the type of Members, since they are now to consider the Income Act, then it deals with the Regulation on the Programme for the Sale of State Finance and Real Property. Then we find that this amendment was not even necessary because we have in this connection a very clear provision of the Rules of Procedure because it can speak instead of the Minister, the Secretary of State. However, if the Secretary of State is absent and the College so decides, anyone from the Ministry of the Interior may speak. So, we've changed the order. This is what makes the National Assembly very orderly. But if not the other, based on false information that the Minister of the Interior is supposed to be here this afternoon, which he can't be. So, I would like to ask the chairman if we get an official explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know, it's signed here by a Mr. Secretary General of God's House. So, is the minister officially absent this morning or is he only absent this afternoon? And if it is this afternoon, why isn't he in the National Assembly this morning if he wanted the National Assembly to put the whole agenda on its head so that he could come and introduce himself? Then the minister didn't come. But the Secretary of State is here. We have these things arranged in the Rules of Procedure. We changed it this summer. It has been effective since July 17 and it does not matter who from the government here speaks about the availability of the ruling coalition, but not about changing the agenda and other points that are important today because of false information. And I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Perhaps Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word? That's all I want to say before that. We accepted this notice yesterday. They put the Rules of Procedure on the agenda. It was voted as it was voted. As for the note that anyone is here, you know that under the Rules of Procedure he may participate in the work of the National Assembly or speak to the Minister or the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is present and we can proceed with the work. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u6	I'd like to say yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u7	Is that a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u8	It's procedural. It is related to the Rules of Procedure, Presidents. After amending the Rules of Procedure, the Minister, Secretary of State or Director-General of the Directorate may speak at a meeting of the National Assembly if so decided by the College. Let's be very specific. The Director-General of the Directorate could, if that were the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u9	Mr. Mag. I didn't give you my word, so I take your word. Let's get back to work. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Here you go. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Regardless of the majority opinion of the Members and Members present at this time, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply not right what is going on. If yesterday the Government of the Republic of Slovenia came with an explanation after a request for a change of agenda due to the absence of the Minister, the National Assembly accepted this. Of course, I welcome this because I appreciate that this is, of course, an elastic note of the National Assembly. But in a new moment, the minister is not even with us anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! That's, and I'll say, making fun of the National Assembly, making fun of all of us. Not only from the opposition Members, but also from you government Members. And a procedural proposal, Mr President! According to the Rules of Procedure, the meeting of the National Assembly shall be chaired by you. This autonomous right at a time when you're sitting in a place where you give and take away a word, you have. I know because I'm alone sometimes in this place. I suggest that, on behalf of the Council of State Protection and the prevention of the mockery of Minister Matthew, you stop this item and continue it until the Minister arrives. However, the National Assembly shall proceed with the following regular item as foreseen after the adoption of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I think we've opened the point. That is why I will continue to work and continue with this point. As for my attitude on this, Mr Vice President Peca, take yesterday's vote sheet, and you will know. Thank you. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u12	Respected and respected! Today we are to discuss the Law on International Protection. Because, of course, there is no real interlocutor, despite the fact that yesterday we moved the agenda from the last to the first. Of course I won't talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u14	Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Slovenia is, because of its geographical position, a popular asylum stand that opens the way to any part of Europe. It is precisely because of this crossing of the road because of the central situation that our country is in a major blow to unjustifiable asylum applications. I do not think it is good to generalise and acknowledge that some asylum applications are justified because of the poor situation of asylum seekers in the country. There are many, however, which Slovenia is to them that resort and some kind of ticket to Europe. Only those who are threatened with inhuman treatment or danger in their country are entitled to asylum. Too many times, some have applied for asylum in many countries. Soon this practice of trafficking in asylum fell apart as mushrooms in the rain. With us, as we can see from the material, the number of applications for asylum since integration into the EU has been increasing since 1,208 applications lodged in 2004 to 1,674 applications submitted in 2005. In 2006, about 65% of the decline is due to more effective checks on EU entry and the fact that only one Member State can suddenly address asylum applications. EU countries will establish a common European asylum system, which means that each EU Member State will transpose into its national asylum legislation all legal acts forming a common asylum system. At least in principle, the asylum system will be the same across all Member States, which will make a significant contribution to the increase and effectiveness of cooperation in the field of asylum policy between individual Member States. Asylum seekers have been entitled to apply for asylum in only one member since 2006. Which has already reduced the chaos in this area. The fact that, following this measure, fewer asylum seekers have been applied for asylum shows this. Trade in asylum is thus visibly decreasing, as evidenced by the above-mentioned data on the decline in applications for asylum lodged in 2006. Secondary migration of applicants for international protection between Member States would be prevented. Rapid, efficient and, in particular, fair procedures are needed for asylum seekers and for the country where an asylum seeker has been applied for asylum. If a request from an asylum-seekers is legally rejected, the asylum-seekers may only reapply if they provide evidence that significantly increases the likelihood of meeting the conditions for obtaining international protection. The introduction of a preliminary procedure is intended to reduce the number of abuses of the procedure for obtaining international protection. In this bill we see the possibility of solving the problem of multiple unjustified requests in a limited number of possible asylum applications for an individual, since this aspect of the right to asylum has been misused in the past. The asylum seekers, whose applications were rejected, were able to apply for asylum after refusing their asylum application and to remain in an asylum home and obtain basic rights. Especially insurance-related ones. Here I would like to point out that the Slovenian People's Party does not support intolerance. We know that there are also asylum seekers who actually need help. Those who were targets of violence and other horrors in their home country. And such people need our help and support for a hundred percent. We also believe that it has not been sufficiently designed to integrate those asylum seekers whose application has been granted. This has to be resolved. And that is why we need a harmonised law with the European Union that will alleviate this problem if it does not already solve it. Not just with us, but all over Europe. The provisions of the Geneva Convention governing the protection of persecution in a material and legal sense have so far been taken into account. However, the means of implementation and asylum procedures were the responsibility of each EU member. Electronic communication between EU Member States and Brussels on the exchange of asylum-seekers' fingerprints will be made possible following the new, with a view to preventing applications from being lodged in several countries at once. The bill also provides for the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a permanent resettlement programme under the annual refugee quota in our country. It would also be useful to write down the criteria on the basis of which this annual quota will be established. As already mentioned, it is a condition for applying for asylum to be persecuted in the country of origin. As the bill says, persecution must be serious enough or repeated enough to constitute a serious violation of fundamental human rights. If acts do not achieve the intensity set out in the proposed law, they cannot be considered as acts of persecution. Where is the limit between enough and not enough intense persecution? What is persecution, and what is persecution? Persecution intensity is, after all, also the subjective assessment of each body involved in the proceedings. Who are the ones who will judge this and on what basis? Each request shall be treated individually, which shall be in full compliance with EU law. The applicant shall present his case only once. This is a major contribution to the credibility of the data and to the avoidance of the different interpretations given in the various procedures. From now on, the applicant can only explain his case once. This also significantly shortens the process itself. The draft law regulates many other areas, the procedure for extending and rejecting the extension of subsidiary protection, the procedure for terminating and withdrawing international protection, documents, records and so on. It may be good to highlight the fact that personal data are protected. The bill states that an authorised company producing asylum documents must destroy all personal data used in the production of documents in 30 days. Strict control should be introduced to avoid abuse. As I have pointed out several times already, the Slovenian People's Party's Group approves a single asylum system throughout the European Union. We believe that the bill would bring a lot of improvements and quicker procedures. At the same time, it provides sound solutions to the number of asylum applications allowed by each individual. We estimate that the area of asylum policy will improve accordingly. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! I really don't know what greater mockery from the legislative branch of government is, or the explanation written in the context of the bill, where the motioner, Minister of Defence Dragutin Mate in the introductory provisions, speaks and attaches great importance to the above-mentioned legal mother. Among other things, the Asylum Act was passed in 1999. By 2006, the law had been amended several times, with the desire to amend it. The reasons for the amendment were adaptation to new emerging forms of immigration and asylum, the introduction of new institutions in the field of asylum and similar things. However, because I am trying to say that Minister Mate attaches exceptional importance to the above-mentioned area at some declaration level, on the other hand, the matter does not seem important enough for him to be here today. He's like the supreme holder of this policy, which you don't want to be, in our country, unfortunately sucks. On the other hand, I do not know, the attitude of the National Assembly towards the said matter is manifested through a decision adopted yesterday. Let us also read it in this connection. Your Honor! This is the culmination of cynicism, for it meant Members and Members of the Assembly of State. He called us "respected." Due to the official absence of Minister of the Interior Dragutin Matej and the overlap of tomorrow's 139th meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular with the deadline for the scheduled consideration of the Law on International Protection, we propose that the law currently under consideration amend tomorrow's agenda, namely to postpone the consideration of the Act to nine o'clock in the morning. Of course, the National Assembly accepted that. Following the planned and adopted agenda, that point should be addressed tonight, tonight. But yesterday, when the National Assembly decided on a proposal that came from the minister in question, there was a speech that he would join us today. Not because you want to see him, maybe one of you, I don't know. But mainly because we're talking about extremely important matter. The matter through which the minister himself said that since 1999 she had changed to a large extent or, according to his assessment, had been amended. And if we look at the government representatives today, we see that there is no minister. I believe that the government representative present is a compatible interlocutor from this area. Why do I believe that? Because I know that Minister Dragutin Mate does forgive the expression, but I believe you will understand that he does not know the matter at all as he does not know the three-quarters of his circuit. And I don't want to be insulting to him. I just want to show you the real picture that's taking place at that Ministry as much as possible. But, ladies and gentlemen, we allow ourselves for the first time - what, of course, I think, is always the attitude towards citizens and citizens. So this is how we evaluate the mentioned matter that we now have in marriage. This law is one of the more extensive laws. Changes, however, call us both internal political themes or institutions as well as external political institutions or institutions within the European Union. This gives us the non-creditability of the content mentioned. On the other hand, from the point of view of the institution of the National Assembly, in my opinion, it is at least as bad as it is, however, that we allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to make fun of the National Assembly in this way. And even support this mockery. Then, of course, it makes sense to ask: Why is the confidence of citizens and citizens in this National Assembly catastrophically low? In my opinion, according to the National Party, it is also due to this kind of event in this house. Allow me to conclude. In view of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is allowed to make fun of the National Assembly, given that the permission of you, the ruling Members, is permitted. So, making fun of yourself. Let me go crazy, too. But I emphasize and please, remember, I'm freaking out! Janez Janša is the emperor. There is no clientelism in our country and there is no social threat in our country! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues who insist on this meeting! I would like to find out some of the inaccuracies that my colleague Peca has mentioned, but it would not be in the content. First time. The letter we received and voted on yesterday was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On her behalf, it was signed by the Secretary-General of the Government and not by Minister Mate. Secondly, I think that what has been written is very respectful because it has been addressed to the President of the National Assembly and not as the colleague of Peca has found, to Members and Members. So I think this letter is correct. And despite the irony and the smile of some of these letters. And it's not said anywhere. At least I don't understand from this letter that the Minister of the Interior has signed. And because of this, the discreditation of this letter, due to the Minister's signature, I mean, it's not in place. But it's a local critique. In view of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mediated this, that the Minister is not present today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Given that I led the meeting yesterday when we discussed this and when we received this proposal for a change of order, I must say again that it reads: "Because of the official absence of the Minister for Home Affairs." But the Minister of the Interior is in Lisbon today. That's how I understood. And I'd like you to continue the session. Secondly, in order to cover the regular meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Secretary of State would be present this afternoon, this proposal was made. I read all this to you yesterday. The National Assembly was informed. It was a vote. Most of it was for the points to be replaced. Please, there's a secretary of state here who can speak. If anyone else interprets the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go! Tell me what you want. Here you go. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u20	Mr. Chairman! The Minister-General or the Secretary-General of the Government has asked for a change in the agenda because tonight - at least that is what the letter says - the Minister will not be present. And just because the minister is present, they're trying to change the agenda within the government and they've succeeded. The agenda has changed because, according to the Minister's plan, there was no minister. Well, look, you can nod. You can do whatever you want. But the fact is, it's black on white. And of course you have every right. You're in charge of the session. My point at the outset was that the National Assembly for itself as an institution should not allow this kind of mockery from itself. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Maria Possonec on behalf of the National Communities. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to your colleagues! The bill introduces a single asylum procedure. It shall establish a procedure for obtaining international protection containing a series of implementing procedures which are subject to substantive reasons. It provides for judicial protection against decisions of the first-degree authority, which, with regard to the right of appeal to the Supreme Court, provides for more special measures than provided for in the law governing the administrative dispute. The scope and content of protection in the Republic of Slovenia, which is determined on an individual basis and in a uniform procedure, are newly defined. It is important that the applicant be allowed to follow the procedure in a language he understands. This shall apply to a personal interview accompanied by an interpreter and to all documents adopted in translation. Money and time limits are laid down for the provision of free legal aid. However, applicants must reimburse all the approved costs when their financial situation is significantly improved. Refugees are entitled to health care under the same conditions as nationals of the Republic of Slovenia if the refugee does not have his own resources or is not provided with survival. How else does the Ministry of Health cover the costs of supplementary health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The purpose of the Law on International Protection is to fully regulate international protection in the Republic of Slovenia and replace the current law on asylum. Such a roofing law is necessary for the transfer of European legal advice to the Slovenian legal order. This law means the establishment of a common single European asylum system. This law seeks to establish an effective and rapid asylum procedure, the same as throughout the European Union, which allows the necessary protection of persons coming from third countries and allows for either integration in the Republic of Slovenia or, in the event of rejection, the rapid return of a foreigner to his country of origin. The Common European Asylum System is the product of a long-standing process, while at the same time the need for common and uniform standards. The need for such an approach matured in 1999. Coincidence. At that time, Slovenia also adopted the last asylum law, which has been amended several times with the primary aim of reaching the latest European Union standards in this area. Today we are in a situation where complementing or patching up the basic law is simply no longer possible. There has been a demand for a conceptually new law that preserves most of the content so far and adds new ones. The basis of the law is asylum, the content of which is somehow beyond the limits of the individual country. Its origin has been in the Geneva Convention, which has been in force for more than 50 years, in particular since 1950. A number of important directives of the Council of the European Union have been incorporated into the law which has been amended. Such as the minimum standards for the reception of an asylum seeker, the minimum standards for the recognition of refugee status or of a person in need of international protection and the content of such protection, then the Minimum Standards Directive on procedures for the recognition or withdrawal of refugee status. Furthermore, the Council of Europe Regulation establishing criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining asylum applications. The so-called Dublin Regulation, which becomes extremely important for our country from the date of its inclusion in the Schengen area. There is also a need to mention the Resolution on the harmonised treatment of issues relating to safe third countries and the Resolution on manifestly unfounded requests. With such a flood of resolutions, the European Union wanted to regulate asylum policy as a whole, as well as to respond to individual events. There will be no mention that the greatest weight of solving these extremely complex problems is borne by the external countries of the European Union. Especially those who lie on or along problematic migration routes. One of these is certainly Slovenia, which will gain weight from 1.1.2008 by entering the Schengen area. What is the dimension of the problem for Slovenia? In 2006, 901 asylum applications were resolved. However, 474 were rejected for abuse of procedure or fraud. However, it was mainly economic migration or individuals who did not comply with the rules and voluntarily left the asylum home and did not return at the prescribed time. And who can even ask for asylum? The condition that a person can apply for asylum is that he is out of his country. Fear of persecution must be justified in a particular case. In the asylum procedure, it is necessary to establish the authenticity of the application for asylum. Persecution factors are state and non-state bodies. Following the procedure, it is necessary to prove that the State did not offer protection to the asylum seeker in the sense that it had directly persecuted him or reacted passively. In particular, cases where the applicant has committed a violation of his rights, a criminal offence or a discriminatory act to a police officer who does not act in accordance with his or her powers. Only the fact that the applicant belongs to a particular race, religion, special social group, nationality or political belief is not sufficient to prove persecution. Persecution under the Geneva Convention remains only in the event of a causal link between persecution and at least one of the reasons set out in the definition of the Convention. That this is a heavy burden for the State to indicate that asylum seekers need to be provided with information in a language they understand. Therefore, in the process provided by the interpreter, he has the opportunity to contact the representatives of the United Nations for Refugees, to be informed of the decision of the competent authority, to ensure an adequate level of rights for family members, to train children and a number of other things. How serious the matter can become, it is reported that Slovenia granted temporary shelter to 36,000 persons under the Temporary Protection Act between 1992 and 1999. Most of the people were in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during the Balkan wars. This represented as much as 1.5% of the total population of the Republic of Slovenia during that period. The Union has also introduced electronic communication, which must also be implemented by Slovenia, as a result of a faster and easier solution to the problem. The law strictly regulates the procedure for obtaining certain rights, its supervision and the protection of data. In order to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and to implement a single asylum policy within the European Union and in view of the greater risk to Slovenia as an external country of the European Union, the law should be adopted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to draw attention to the outrageous conduct of today. Yesterday we voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the current majority that due to the official absence of Minister of the Interior Dragutin Matej and the overlap of the meeting with the Government, it was proposed that the International Protection Act be considered at 9 a.m. in the morning. Anyone who can read letters understands that it is possible to expect from this context that today, when considering the law, the first hearing of the law with 142 articles will be held by the Minister of the Interior. I, unfortunately, do not see the Minister of the Interior in this Chamber. I do not, however, object to the possibility that the Secretary of State could be adopted as an interlocutor to this meeting in place of him, which our Rules of Procedure allow. However, in this case the letter should also talk about this. In view of the fact that the meeting of the National Assembly will be held in such a way that, in any event, any agenda item overlaps with the government’s meeting, I wonder: ‘ Why didn’t we also talk about it? I allow the possibility that we will consider the Law on Medicine in the third reading. But what I'm pointing out is that the letter we received is deceiving that the letter had announced the presence of Minister Matthew, but that Minister Matt is not here now. I'm sorry he's not here. Because the first reading of the Law on International Protection should be necessary. He is the one who also makes statements about the Schengen border, and I don't know what else. And it would be good to be present after we have seen in the examinations of legislation relating to international protection concerning the right to asylum, now more than once have we had the opportunity to see that this Government is lowering the standards of protection that have been achieved and implemented in this country. However, they are declining, regardless of the fact that we have proved that nothing forces us to lower standards. This was our decision, or decision, of this coalition. The decision of this coalition, which is so highly sensitive to human rights, when speaking on the petition committee and human rights. And at that meeting of the Commission, it was found that the Asylum Act, which we have amended, is very good with lower standards and that we can continue to treat it in an unaltered form. The question to me is: How can it be that on 28 September, comments were made to the 60th Article of this Act, which points to the 17 most critical provisions of this proposal of the law, if they are to deal with laws in such a way that they are also coordinated with NGOs when they come to the National Assembly? Here we have a letter signed by the NGO Legal Information Centre after comments with non-governmental organisations have been coordinated. It is the Amnesty International Slovenia, the Jesuit Service for Refugees, the Peace Institute, the Legal Information Centre and the Slovenian Philanthropy. The question that comes to mind is: What laws do we receive in the National Assembly for consideration? Where is it that those who should now answer clearly and aloud the question of what has been done so far to harmonise the law with non-governmental organisations which, I stress, have a lot of experience in addressing asylum-seekers? The numbers we have heard alone are sufficient proof of what asylum policy Slovenia is implementing. Mr Petan, what is happening in this National Assembly is by no means European and your conduct is not European. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u27	I'd like to ask without hesitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for allowing me to resume my debate normally. Asking questions or demanding strict conditions for asylum, referring to numbers that were previously linked to war in other parts of Yugoslavia, is at least non-civilisational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President. Take a look at this controversy that has been sparked by colleague Cvikl and the opposition Members continue to do so. Madam Ambassador, I think it's a simple deception. If we read this letter well that we received yesterday and we voted on it [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u31	Mr Ljublješek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u32	Look, it's gonna happen again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u33	I, as chairman, have ended this debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u34	Just don't let your next colleagues and colleagues reopen it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u35	I know, I know. I'd like to warn you that this debate is over. We continue to work on the proposal on the law we are talking about. The next panellist is Mr Mag. Gnyardsich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. There is no announced minister, there will be no debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u37	Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u38	Since the Minister is not in the Chamber, this point could be considered as the last item on the agenda of the last day of the meeting of the State Assembly in the presence of the current Secretary of State. I believe that the debate on this law is totally unnecessary. In addition, I have a very bad feeling that the Minister may not be, because, as with chronically all members of the Slovenian government, he has not been prepared to negotiate with NGOs and others, as in other ministries, but with other social partners, he has not taken into account. Neither he nor his colleagues commented on a total of 60 articles in this law by NGOs. Therefore, I believe that one of the reasons why he is not here today is not his official absence, which will only occur in the afternoon, but mainly his fear of saying that Slovenia is continuing to lower the standards for the protection of refugees in the international space and that the excuse for this reduction of the standards is to adapt to European standards or regulations of the European Union. Which is a pure fiction. Because the European Union has repeatedly and repeatedly stressed that its standards are the minimum minimum that all Member States of the European Union must achieve. We had higher standards and are now lowering them to this minimum. Shame on this country!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Therefore, since this law is somehow a summary of the single European model, the uniform conduct of the European Union in the event of asylum, I can say that it is good for Slovenia to take over this single European order. For this is the best argument for those who say that our asylum policy is non-civilisation. This means that European asylum policy in this area is non-civilisation. And there's probably no one here who'd hope to say that. Because that's funny. Second. Also claims that citing or providing information on Slovenia's behaviour during the Balkan event in recent years is non-civilisation. I'd say it's a little different. The war in the Balkans was non-civilisational. The behaviour of Slovenia, which then took over, took over the burden and accepted over 30,000 people from this area, who were fleeing the war, but it was very civil. The treatment of these people at the time was also very civil. I'm not gonna say I'm gonna brag. But I was very close to those who treated and treated these people and cared for their safety and nutrition and everything. So I know the situation. And I can say that Slovenia turned out to be one too. Not only civilized, but she also cut herself very humanely. Very humane and very well cared for these people, however, as much as possible in such a large number. But then Slovenia did its job exemplaryly. So now talk about referring to those events as non-civilizational. Just the opposite. Slovenia has also shown other countries how they are doing in such cases. But it is true that the event itself, the events itself, the war that happened there, is indeed non-civilizational. And I agree with that. But it's not Slovenia's fault. Slovenia has helped in this situation. That is why Slovenia has still proved itself. I'll say it's very above-standard. And even in this law, in this law Slovenia still has a certain - if I can even use this term, but I use it because I have heard it from others, yes, it still uses - above standard. It's about the spouses, the applicants and outside the marriage partners and the underage kids, the couples. And this marriage of family members extends to the parents of a unaccompanied minor, which is a derogation from this European standard. And now, if Europe has a non-civilisation standard, then I don't know where else in the world they have civilisation standards. This is a uniform approach in the area of the European Union as a whole. As far as I know, the European Union has higher standards than it has elsewhere in the world. I am not talking about those backward countries, but about countries that are somewhere at the level of the development of Slovenia or the European Union. The European Union has significantly higher standards than the rest of the world for such cases. That is why we should talk about Europe having non-civilisational laws, because this is the European order. Excuse me, it's the European order! This is not now some segment that Slovenia has invented and has set up its content. It's already written in the bill itself. I think that today it has been repeatedly read that this is a harmonisation for a single European asylum system, that Europe as a whole will have the same approach, that the whole of Europe will do the same, that at all the external borders of the European Union they will do the same. Of course it's up to the people. I agree with that. But at least the legal basis will be the same throughout the European Union. And this is particularly important for Slovenia now, because we are becoming the external country that will have to take care of this. And there will be consequences for the entire European Union. Not just to Shenty. Even if you want, Glasgow. Because those who come to Slovenia will be treated as will be the case for the whole of the European Union. These are the facts. You can't do that anyway. Of course, if someone else has a different approach. I'll allow it. Why not? However, Slovenia is moving into this place, which we have already placed ourselves in. And now we're in a very specific area, because we're becoming a 1.1 part of another system, another boundary. There's gonna be a check on our borders to get into this system. And of course this law is necessary. It includes many directives of the Council of Europe. I don't know why we couldn't have this marriage. And we're gonna have to. We will have to accept it and every, I don't know, humiliation of Slovenia is completely meaningless here. And to talk about non-civilisational approaches, I would say, to make the approach more civilized, we also need such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for allowing me a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u43	Wait, I haven't been able to. You didn't wait for my answer. Replica? When did the gentleman mention you? [[Ad in the background.]] Not by name. I can't give you a replica. I really don't. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u44	Mr Vice-President, I would like you to remind the debaters who are twisting words that they should listen more carefully to what someone is saying if they have decided to challenge their views. Mr. Petan is so skilled, he knew that if he didn't mention my name, you wouldn't give me a replica. But he turned back what he and his colleague Pechanov were saying, and he made a speech conversion to the scene. From what he's been discussing, he's turned. He used a large number of asylum seekers to justify why the law and procedures need to be changed, because it is necessary to make it possible to appreciate and facilitate the rationalisation of very complex procedures. But what he did with my debate about refugees during the war is scandalous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Does the motioner have a wish for a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! In fact, I would like to thank you for accepting yesterday's majority vote in favour of changing today's agenda. With this, you have allowed at least one of the government's representatives to attend this meeting, said the Secretary of State instead of Minister Matei, who is in Lisbon today. So, at the same time, you have also allowed me to participate in the work of the Government at a very important point in the afternoon and evening. In your debate, I would add that, of course, we have coordinated with UNHCR and also with NGOs. Sometimes it's just that somehow you don't come together, that things are different. The government's pretty strict about it. It's the directives of the European Union. These may not be what anyone would have wanted. However, even in cases where some of the terms of the directive are translated, we cannot afford to interpret this in any other way. Here many times it comes to the fact that there are differences in attitudes even after the adoption of the law. I think we have followed really the norms and rather modern standards for the protection of human rights and, of course, the system of a single asylum procedure in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. You've got your word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet come and is still available, I ask you on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if anyone else wishes to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you. So first, about the European Union standards and the reversal of words used by fellow Members, word conversion specialists. I have not mentioned that the European Union's standards are non-civilised, non-civilised. I have spoken of the European Union's standards in all the areas covered by the European Union as the minimum to be climbed by the countries that are members of the European Union. Those countries that had higher standards than those laid down minimum standards of the European Union - and do not reverse them for God's sake! Those countries are not obliged to approach or lower these minimum standards, but should be an example to the remaining members of the Member States, as high standards as they have - even Slovenia, in the case of asylums, had higher standards than EU minimum standards, and should be an example for other countries to achieve these standards. The same applies, for example, to Slovenia, to the standards of rights of national minorities. It also applies to Slovenia for health care standards, where we were able to hear yesterday that we fell by 10 places at the level of the health care system and so on and so on. Although we have not adapted to EU standards there, we have adapted to some of the standards that this coalition has set. And there's something else I'd like to say. I know it's pointless to talk today about, I'll say, manipulation that happened yesterday with the National Assembly. Yesterday it was not written and today it is not written that this point should be transferred because at least the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior may be present at this meeting. This was not written because, otherwise, the name and surname should also be written or at least the function of the Secretary of State, who is scheduled to come to the Assembly Hall this morning because he is required to carry out urgent duties at the Government’s meeting this afternoon. All right and all right, but for God's sake, let's not fool around and make fun of ourselves! Mr State Secretary, you have again argued that we must comply with EU directives when it comes to the system of granting asylum, information, integration and so on. Not when it comes to procedures, but when it comes to openness to people who ask for shelter and so on. This is not a matter for the EU to require us, by means of its directives, to go down the steps of humanity, to those standards which the EU has in its directives. That's not true. And for that reason, I certainly do not intend to support this law even in my first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on the amendment of the law of admission. The draft law was tabled by Mr Saša Pecé. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bojan Starman, to explain the decision further.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. At its 29th meeting, on 13.9th, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the draft law amending the Act on Income submitted by Mr Saša Peče to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption on 20.4.2007. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which had no comments on the proposal for amendments. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia issued on 24.5.2007 and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the economy of 10.7.2007. Pending the expiry of the 12.9 business deadline, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments to the proposal. Mr Sašo Peče, Member of the Slovenian National Party, proposed in the amendments that Article 142 of the Income Act should be amended, which regulates the purpose of the remuneration of 0,5 for the donation or financing of generally beneficial purposes, unions and political parties. The applicant proposed deleting the restrictions on the list of beneficiaries appearing in the applicable law by stipulating that the beneficiaries for the purpose of the part of the income are not residents, legal persons established or members of which are legal entities of public law. In its opinion on the proposal for a law, the Government stated that, under the law of certain powers, the State and the local community set up legal persons to carry out certain tasks by law and also financed them through taxes and other compulsory duties. Therefore, it is not justified that legal persons set up by legal persons of public law obtain funds in addition to taxes in a way that could have happened by amendment. After a broader discussion, the Committee decided that, on the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the law was not suitable for further consideration and that such a decision should also be proposed to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the proposer of the draft law for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u52	Your Honors are here! In the first half of April this year, I introduced this law into the parliamentary procedure. So when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or, better said, the Ministry of Finance of the Public took note of a regulation listing entities within our country, in which each individual who is a taxable person may devote 0.5% of the income taxed. Allow me to read from this title from the first page of the said regulation some of these beneficiaries which the Government places in an exclusive position to whom an individual in our country can place some of its available funds in the framework of income: the Binch Church in the Republic of Slovenia, the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Slovenia, the Christian Adventist Church, the Christian Center Ljubljana, the Christian Center Nova genera, the International Christian Community, the Nadskofi Ljubljana, the Nadskofi Maribor and so on. There are approximately 3,500 beneficiaries on this list. However, I do not want to, although it is clear from the regulation that today we are talking about the ideological orientation of this law. The fact is, the Secretary of State is mag. Mr Lavrič said that there is a 142nd article, which I am trying to amend under Slovenian legislation, which says that the taxpayers of 0.5% of their income are committed to financing generally beneficial purposes. However, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the legislator had written down what are generally useful purposes. First of all, the priority of this government, what is a generally useful purpose, are political parties. I agree that this is useful, but this cannot be the number one benefit within our country. Number two said they were representative unions, and at the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Sport, they wrote that they were private schools and private kindergartens. As a proposaler, I would like to avoid restricting any taxpayer to the extent that part of his income available in the above mentioned 0.5% of the amount can be allocated to others where he wants to go. I therefore pursue this objective so that this part of my resources, which do not represent wealth, can represent only an option, i.e. a space-based approach to this, can also be allocated to public health institutions, public schools, public schools. According to my assessment, tax legislation, which, in the form it has so far laid down, does not constitute freedom of decision. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by its regulation, which has been issued and complemented from day to day, is precisely directing funding. According to my assessment as a proposaler, in this case it is a narrow direction for additional funding. And if a state at some declaration level approaches tax policy, but only at a declaratory level, as a free availability of this amount of income, then it is only right that we define this free availability as such. Thus, each individual within our society has the right to choose, or a prior right, whether or not he will donate these funds to someone and then to whom. Therefore, in my opinion, we must not restrict and that the beneficiaries of this part are only private schools, not public schools. According to our assessment, we leave this decision to every single individual, according to the opinion of the proponents, the Slovenian National Party. As it is said, in the context of the work of this law, I am interfering with the last paragraph of Article 142, through which we would allow the adoption of this law exactly what I have said. According to our assessment, I will not intervene in the wealth of an individual or individual institution, although, on the other hand, on the one hand, what can be seen today in the financial website where Christian businessmen have presented themselves in the framework of the Association of Christian Businessmen of the Republic of Slovenia, at the first press conference have also told us who are the most resilient members, including our Minister of Finance, and that their basic commitment is to the enrichment of the Roman Catholic Church, so the current dictatorship cannot be disputed; but because I believe that this is wrong and contrary to the Constitution, and in particular to the interests of citizens and citizens, I propose that you adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr. Mag. Shirtzel, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me to briefly explain the Government's opinion on the proposed law and also on the opinion of the parent's working body. The Institute for the Purpose of Work of Income for Donations is intended to promote the development of a so-called civil society which, through organisations not established as persons of public law, carries out activities of a generally beneficial nature as non-profit-making activities rather than financing institutions financed by the municipal or state budget and which have, after all, been established by these institutions or countries or municipalities. After all, the latter, as these institutions are said, are financed by public funds, that is to say by taxes, which is why from the beginning the Government's position is that additional funding through the Institute of Purposes of Income is not justified for them. This is the basic starting point followed by the drafter of the Income Act and on the basis of which this provision has also been made so that taxpayers can devote 0.5% of their income to certain institutions of the so-called civil society which are not established on the basis of a State or municipality act. To date, as already mentioned, there are 3,454 beneficiary entities on the list of beneficiaries of income work. By 30 September and 30 September respectively, the Ministry of Finance had revised the text, cleared all beneficiaries and will also publish them in the Official Journal, which means that all beneficiaries will be listed in the Official Journal, final for 2007, so to speak for 2007 income. The Ministry of Finance will propose a regulation by a government regulation if there has been any mistake, that there will also be those financed from public funds - it is said that they will not be on this provisional list, which we are actually talking about and which will be published in the Official Journal. The Ministry of Finance or the Government does not support, for these reasons, the proposed law as a suitable basis for further consideration, precisely for the reasons I spoke about; it is said that the reasons why each institution is financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u56	Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the Income Act, adopted in October 2006, does not need to be amended in the work where it is proposed. According to Article 142, the resident may require that up to 0.5% of the income received by law from income included in the annual tax base be earmarked for the financing of generally beneficial purposes, the financing of political parties and representative unions. As a general benefit and purpose, humanitarian purposes, the purpose of protection against natural and other disasters, disability, charity, ecological, cultural, sports, religious and other purposes are considered. It is important that the activity of residents of the Republic of Slovenia, established under specific rules to carry out those activities as non-profit activities, and that a specific law provides that it is an activity in the public interest or a charitable activity. The Institute for the Purpose of Work of Income for Donations is designed to enable taxpayers to decide for themselves for which generally beneficial purposes, which are implemented through organisations other than those established as persons of public law, will allocate part of the income. Consequently, beneficiaries under this Article are not legal persons established by legal persons of public law. Under the law of certain powers, the State and the local community shall establish legal persons to carry out certain tasks by law and shall also finance these tasks through taxes and other compulsory duties. Therefore, we do not believe that it is justified that legal persons established by legal persons of public law and who acquire funds for their operations from public finances and thus directly from taxes and other charges are still acquiring funds through the purpose of the part of the income directly. The fact is also that there are 3,454 potential beneficiaries on the list drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the Income Regulation, and we will not support the proposal extending that institution to public institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u58	A nice greeting to all present and thank you for your word! The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is clear and short. It extends only a range of beneficiaries to the part of the income which is allocated by law in addition to companies recognised as having a public interest status, including for the functioning of religious institutions, political parties, representative unions and public institutions, to the benefit of 0.5% of the tax base. The classification of public institutions as potential recipients of income grants is logical and comprehensible, since public institutions carry out a major public service, so there can be no dilemma as to their functioning in the public interest or that the functioning of public institutions is generally beneficial. Although the functioning of public institutions is largely financed by public funds, and partly by user payments for services, and given their mission and the scope of their activities, they are never the founder or the financiers, nor will they be able to fully provide the necessary resources, as the Government misrepresents in its negative and weak stance on the proposed amendment of the law. It is therefore appropriate and necessary to make it possible, by appropriate legislative amendment, to include public institutions, in particular in the areas of health, social protection, child protection, culture, education and other matters, in the income benefit package. This does not change in any way the financial impact on the state budget, increases the choice of taxpayers to pay income and in some way establishes a parallel to the corporate tax law. For this reason, we support the proposed amendment of the law in our parliamentary group and cannot support the position of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u60	Your Honors are here! On the basis of the existing government bill on income situation in our country, it looks like: Theological Faculty - yes, Faculty of Economics Maribor - no. First time. Second of all, the high school of Skofi - yes, any other high school - no. And in the second year, so next year it will look like: a primary school whose founder is a Roman Catholic community or another religious community - yes, a primary school, the Martin Konšak example in Maribor - no. Therefore, as a proposaler and as a Member to support the law, and therefore to oppose the proposal made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the national working body, the aim is only to equalise itself. That it is not now in the whole debate, however, it comes from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is just like the circle of Christian businessmen, does not support the proposal of the law and the goal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still directs financial resources, weighs or strives to enable the free disposal of every individual within our society of whom the financial resources mentioned will be allocated. There are no arguments as to why inequality or why we should not approach equality in the context of the debate so far, either by the Secretary of State or at the work of the home working body. Even more! Individual statements have come this way to show that you do not understand, I apologize, the mentioned substance of the law or the existing situation in our country. I quote one of the opponents, that is, the ruling Member, who claims that the proposal for a law which I am putting into parliamentary procedure is bad. I quote: "...but if the founders are unable to provide certain financial resources that they must under law, then something is not right here. And I do not agree with this that such situations exist on the ground." Gentlemen and gentlemen, from primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, whether they will be founders of the local community or possibly founder of the state, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - there will be no financial resources. These educational institutions need financial resources and those who will say that these institutions have all the necessary financial resources and that they do not need additional funding, forgive me, those who do not or do not know what is happening within our country or are bluffing. And with the amendment of Article 142, gentlemen, they would be placed in an equal position by each educational institution. We're not taking anybody's money! We're just spreading a circle of beneficiaries. And if anyone is concerned about the existing round of 3400 financial beneficiaries of this title, let me just give them a few more - this time I will stop only on the first side of the set, by a rough estimate, a hundred leaves and count them. They are also among the institutions supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Škofija Celje, Škofija Koper, Škofija Murska Sobota, Škofija Novo mesto, Association church, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not right! The second argument, which you use as an example of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is that you will be afraid, too, in the Nagnetogram record, that in the coming period - i.e. during the period of tax forecasting - each individual will receive up to 20,000 envelopes of home in his mailbox. I can quote this part of the magnetogram too. These are false arguments. The only serious argument, and I am self-critical, is that it is necessary to adopt the law that it is necessary to allow every, every individual to decide - and regardless of whether his child is going to the school of Scotland or any other high school - to decide for himself where this financial means will be allocated. The limitation of funding and even stricter restrictions, as announced by the Secretary of State of Shircelj, lead us exclusively to where the Constitution prohibits us. The Constitution clearly stipulates the separation between the State and the religious communities. In the law, as I said, it raises the number of beneficiaries both in the areas of health institutions, educational institutions, all those institutions. [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Once again, I propose that, honourable Members, before deciding, consider and support a law that would allow equality, equality before funding this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Income Act regulates the institution for the purpose of the part of the income for donations, allowing the taxable person to devote up to 0.5% of his income to the financing of generally beneficial purposes and political parties or representative unions. The provisions of the last sentence of the second paragraph expressly exclude legal persons whose establishment or membership is legal persons of public law from the beneficiaries' circle, since this institution of purpose of the part of the grant income is intended to promote the development of the so-called civil society, not to finance entities established by the State or the municipalities for the implementation of certain tasks by law. The latter are already financed from public funds collected through taxes and other public taxes. In order to determine the operators for grants, a Regulation was adopted on the allocation of part of the income for grants, which is also an integral part of the 2007 list of beneficiaries for grants. The list, which will be completed in the autumn, includes 3,454 beneficiaries, mostly companies acting in the public interest, and private schools and private kindergartens are among the beneficiaries on the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Sport. The proposer submitted his proposal to the legislative procedure proposing the deletion of the last sentence of Article 142(2) of the Income Act, which means that beneficiaries of grants could also be entities whose founder or members are legal entities of public law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the existing regime is fully acceptable, as 0.5% of the allocated income is earmarked for the financing of generally beneficial purposes and for the financing of political parties and representative unions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not support the proposal for amendments to the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! The Group of the Social Democrats will not support the proposal for a decision by the parent working body, which does not follow the proposal and its desire to open up the possibility for those who may receive a grant from the income workers. 142. Article of the existing law speaks of whom all can be donated - I note that there are still no scientific institutions, this was our proposal at the time, and that scientific institutions, societies and other entities are hiding under other purposes, but this is a story that is already passed by the adoption of the law, and it is essential that public institutions be excluded from the list of those who cannot be donated with the proposed version of the law. Why do we support a proposaler who believes that public schools, public schools, public health institutions could receive donations? At least one feature or one flaw in the existing law should be noted. Last week we passed the Education and Education Financing Act, and the coalition advocated a choice. The possibility of choice has turned into 100% private school funding, and so the public school programme is now financially aligned with the public programme in private schools. The head of Aloyzi Šuštar's first private school specifically stressed that donations will also be considered as income. This means that private schools will be in a significantly better position than public schools, public schools and other public institutions, so we strongly oppose the Government's unwillingness to listen to the well-intentioned change the applicant is making. He sees only one fact, he sees only the founder, but he does not see the other one, which can also be heard on the ground, from where the activity is financed. And if the activity is 100% financed from public funds, either from state, municipal or regional resources, then public education institutions should also benefit from this benefit, which in this case means the possibility of grants of 0.5 per cent of the income. If 3,454 possible addresses of donations are too high, I will not negate, but when I hear that they are part of the most fire-fighting companies, then it is almost clear to me that people prefer to make donations in their home environment because they want to give their support to those activities. And why can't they give a donation to a public school or a public school? This is what guides us in supporting the draft law to amend Article 142. And now allow me to use these few seconds, as long as I have left, for another warning. The tax administration took into account the tax administration’s decisions on the rate of income [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] both sexes only in solicitation of the debtor/debtor. [[...]] However, if you are to read the decision, it is issued by illiterate people for issuing the decision as follows: "We issue the decision to Majd Potrate's bequest." I'm not a committed citizen, and we're still moving in Slovenian. By Directives of the European Union at least [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We are not going to be able to remove the movement in language, so I find such a scandalous "slamparia" and disregard, with them predicting that they would change the tax decision. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the proposal for amendments to the Income Act. Already in adopting tax reform, we have pointed out how many changes in tax legislation in the past have resulted in imprudent laws. Various influential lobbies have in the past exercised their power and introduced in legislation facilities that prevent transparency and simplicity. The provision that 0.5% of the income may be earmarked for generally beneficial purposes, political parties and trade unions led to a broad debate at the stage of the adoption of the new Income Law. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the occasion was fully exploited. The list of beneficiaries is made, in the New Slovenia Group we believe that it is also sufficiently extensive. The debtors have the right choice to devote part of their tax liability to the socially beneficial purpose closest to them. We agree with those who feel that it is not justified to expect that a part of the income directly would be allocated for the implementation of certain tasks already financed by public funds by law. Therefore, we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Income Act. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, to one more thing, that is, to religious communities, about which there were many talks today. Of the approximately 3,500 beneficiaries up to 0.5% of the income is 1,482 fire companies or over 42%, 1,020 are educational and sports companies, which is over 29% of the so-called religious institutions, which are controversial for many, are included in the proposed list with 26 beneficiaries or 0.7%. If I include schools and kindergartens where the founders of the religious community are, there are 21 additional beneficiaries or a total of 47 and 1.3%. In my opinion, this cannot be problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONCERN THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL FACILITIES FOR 2007 AND 2008. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Mr. Andrey Shircelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, a proposal to supplement the State's programme of sale of financial and real property. In November 2005, the government adopted a framework of economic and social reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia. As part of the measures taken to develop the financial system, a coordinated privatisation of the largest state-owned companies is also envisaged. It also includes Telekom. The objectives of privatisation are: to establish a ownership structure that will ensure the effective performance, competitiveness and successful development of Telekom d.d. in the long term. and its subsidiaries, reaching the highest possible selling price of the state share and having a positive impact on the development of the electronic communications sector. At the time of the preparation of the basic decision on the 2007 and 2008 sales programme in September 2006, Telekom’s sales strategy was not yet fully known and only the share intended for sale in the first step was included in the decree, although the strategic orientations suggest that the final objective of the sale of the State share in Telekom would be to sell the whole share, except the equity share of 25% plus one share, which the Republic of Slovenia will retain in its ownership. In the preparation of an individual programme in 2007, which needs to be prepared in accordance with the Public Finance Act, it has been shown with the assistance of financial advisers and experts that the sale of a larger share or the overall share of the State would be more prudent and effective in one step. In April 2007, amendments and additions to the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network were also adopted on the basis of which the Republic of Slovenia had to transfer 653.548 shares of Telekom, representing 10%, to the Slovenian Compensation Society. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore prepared a supplement to the decree proposing that the share of the country's capital investment in Telekom should be increased from 18.39% to 37.53%. This share also includes the above mentioned 653.548 shares, which have been transferred free of charge to the Slovenian Compensation Society under the Act on Public Finance, as the free disposal of financial assets based on the second law must also be shown in the sales programme. The sales programme is also complemented by the real state property. This is a property in which the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU in Brussels worked until the conditions for operation in the new location were established. Since premises are not commercially necessary and there is already an interest in purchasing, it would be rational to sell them as soon as possible, which is why this is included in the proposal for a decree. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask President Bojan Starman to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at its 29th meeting on 13.9., also considered the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the 2007 and 2008 national financial and real property programme submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. We've received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. This indicates that the proposed increase in the share of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in Telekom Slovenije d.d. is the reason for the proposed increase in the sale of the intended share of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the company Telekom Slovenije. First of all, it lists the adoption of the new Law on the Return of Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, after which 10% of Telekom’s shares are to be transferred to the SOD as a source of funding for beneficiaries for recovery. Of what basis does the applicant take account of the above 10% of the shares, it is not clear from the view of the service, since that amendment directly sets the ceiling for Telekom’s shares, in the number 653.549, which are to be transferred free of charge to the SOD for the purpose of financing the return on investments. As a second reason for the proposed increase for the sale of the intended share of the Capital Company in Telekom, the applicant also provides for the adoption of a separate capital investment scheme in Telekom, which provides for different diverging options, in the case of cross-ownership, for the sale of the entire share of the State in one step. This explanation is not comprehensible from the assessment of the service, as it would be expected by the Government, by adopting a particular sales programme, to implement the sale process already included in the sales programme adopted by the National Assembly and not the other way around. During the business period, i.e. until the beginning of the consideration of the motion for a decree at the meeting of the Committee, Member Milan M. Cwickl tabled an amendment to delete Article 1. There were quite a few discussions at the committee's own meeting on the topic of Telekom Augusto's announcement or invitation to tender for the sale of 49.13% of the state stake in Telekom in Finance Officer. Following a heated debate, the Committee did not adopt the proposed amendment by Mr Milan M. Brickle to delete Article 1. On the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee was also presented with a proposal for an amendment to Article 1, supplementing the text of the second paragraph and replacing the text of paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of this Article. This amendment was not adopted in the sitting itself. Thus, when Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure was applied, the Committee voted on the articles of the individual decree and adopted them, which is also proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the programme and selling of state-owned and real estate for 2007 and 2008 relates to two amendments, namely the level of divestment of the intended share in Telekom and the disposal of the existing premises of the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union in Brussels. If the second amendment to the ruling on the sale of state and real property is logical and duly substantiated and could therefore be supported, the situation with the first and principal modification of the sales programme of the State owned by Telekom for sale is unacceptable from a legal and legal point of view and is therefore unacceptable. The Government, as the proposer of the amendment of the State's sales programme, hereby substantiates the change in the stake in Telekom for sale by, but not later than necessary, the harmonisation of the sales programme with the adopted law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network and the harmonisation of the sales programme as a general act adopted by the National Assembly in accordance with Article 80d of the Public Finance Act with the individual programme on the sale of the State's capital investment in Telekom, adopted by the Government in accordance with Article 80e of the Public Finance Act. Justification of the amendment of the general act for the purpose of adapting an individual act is not only unacceptable from a legal point of view, but such justification is offensive to the National Assembly. In our parliamentary group, we do not question the right of the Government to propose a change in the sale of the intended share of the country in Telekom, but we expect and demand that the Government base its decision and present it to the National Assembly, which is the only one competent to decide on the sale of state property before the adoption of the individual capital investment sale programme in Telekom d.d. on the basis of which a public call was issued for the collection of tenders in the capital investment process of the Republic of Slovenia in Telekom d.d. Since the Government has not justified the increase in sales of the intended share in Telekom, which is an essential part of the amendment to the proposed sale programme for state property and because the majority of the labour force rejected their own amendment, which would be able to remedy the legal system's inadmissibility of the decision, we cannot support this in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'm holding back words I shouldn't have said, and I won't, and I'll try. [[Hey, buddy, turn it off so everyone doesn't hear you.]] See, just look at Annex 1 and Annex 2, the real estate sale program, which are part of this decree and see what is really going on. [[...]] Well, to put it mildly, I'm going to say that this is meant to be written, designed, not to be ugly, and I'm not going to say that this is a place of state property. Evidence. We are very successful in talking about co-investment for a facility owned by the Ministry of Justice, in Trbovje, but it says here that they will sell it. We are talking, I have spoken in person with the Minister, the Municipality of Krško, Zagorje, Hrastnik, Trbovlje, 70,000 inhabitants we have informed the Minister of Economy of the position that we do not allow the sale of apartments owned by mines to want talks, this was in the spring, we say in trubevlje, of course we are not "fucking" at this ministry. They told us to run some tests. And we've made a meeting, and we've informed the other ministry not to sell this property again, because it's not the clear fate of the mine, it's not the clear fate of the thermal power plant. And another one of us, once again in tummy, "don't fuck" and it's sold in a decree. Specifically: Specter, Range, Miner, Senovo. 70,000 people believe and do not allow the sale of this property. And what's in the back? Of course, a private interest, someone will come and buy it cheap, charge it to all tenants of these apartments - it's a rich asset of state, huge, 70,000 people living in these congregations. These people won't be able to pay, and the new owners will say, "Go to the congregations," - this isn't just ours, you also have your congregations, "and demand subsidies there." And, of course, the municipality will only spend 100% of its budget on poor people who will be married - who will be married to them, I am talking specifically about this decree and the sale of property - and will not be able to make a meter of water, including a meter of road, including a square meter of school, including a square meter of kindergarten. Three official warnings, a legal form, four mayors, a specific case, with signatures, everything! I'm literally going to use the term "don't fuck us" again. It's not just that. A lot of respectable friends and colleagues, not just fooling around with Telekom. Together, when we talked about the New Ljubljana Bank, we recapitalised it to be owned by the State. The last unofficial information I hope to get an answer to my question is that, despite promises from a month ago, the New Ljubljana Bank is owned by the State in 51% [[...]] [[Complaints from the bench.]] - that's not true. [[...]] The new Ljubljana Bank is owned by the state, I speak informally, I will get official 49.37%, which means it is no longer in possession. That, ladies and gentlemen, is theft! These are deceptions, this is disrespect for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. With this decree, of course, because this is a decree, we have to take it so that we can sell or do whatever it takes. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Yes! [[...]] But with this decision, we're going to give the government permission to do whatever it takes. What about the people? You, too, will one day be people, and you will one day only be renters of some apartments, which you will, of course, pay at twice the price, because the country will sell them to a private person, who, of course, will gladly market and exploit people and local communities and regional ones if they are regions. It is not fair that such a decree, hidden in Annexes 1 and 2, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We accept. [[...]] The Slovenian national party is absolutely opposed to such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme for State Finance and Real Property for 2007 and 2008. The point is the change in the stake in the sale of Telekom. It is proposed that the share of Telekom, which is intended for sale and other forms of distribution, should be changed from 18.39% to 37.53% and that the number of shares for sale and other forms of availability should be changed accordingly, from 1 million 201 874 to 2 million 452 548 thousand shares, thus increasing the share of Telekom, intended for sale from 30% to 49.13%, so that the State would maintain its control share of 25% plus 1 share. This proposed amendment was the result of the opinion of the sales management and control committee of Telekom, which considers that selling a larger share would be a more efficient and cost-effective solution. We also join in this with our opinion and support for this decision by the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, whom we intend to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Milan M. Swickl on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u78	Mr President, the representatives of the Commission for the Privatisation of State Property are not in this Chamber, but are obviously the most important. The decision of the Commission for the Privatisation of State Property makes us today a decision. This Commission has decided that the need to sell more than 30% of what we have authorized them to sell, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Economy, has published a lie, I underline a false invitation to tender. The introduction states: according to the individual sales programme of part of the capital investment, with the Public Finance Act we sell 50% and 49%, and more. Gentlemen, this is no longer normal. I will not use the same words as my colleague Barovic, but what we are doing in the National Assembly, because some marginal commission to carry out what the National Assembly decides is to sell more, then the Government will accept a change in the individual sales programme for Telekom, even if the Government could only accept it after it has been given the authority to do so in the National Assembly. Instead of doing this, we do this differently: the programme was adopted, an ad was published by 28 September, before the adoption of this decree, 15 companies appeared that would be willing to buy this Telekom, and now we are covering the decision of the State Property Commission in Telekom! Gentlemen on the Commission, gentlemen of the Commission, Mr Matjaž Janša and the others who are in there, you are stronger than the National Assembly, you are stronger than the Government, you are stronger than the Minister of Economy, you are stronger than Janez Janša, President of the Government! That's why my opening remarks were in the beginning. That's not how it works. That's not how it works. At the very least it is necessary to say and publish, in an advertisement, if you are already publishing an ad: "Inconsistent with the Public Finance Act, we sell 49% of Telekom's share. Inconsistent with the Public Finance Act! We made it up to ourselves to sell 49%, not what we were authorized to sell in the National Assembly. The fact that the Committee of the National Assembly, in which the ruling coalition is located, goes beyond this is a very clear message from the Legislative and Legal Service that the reason for the change of the decision is wrong. We cannot change the decision on the sale of state and real property because the Government has exceeded the powers of the National Assembly. It's the other way around. First, if we decide to do so in the National Assembly, the government can change the individual program. So I make it clear to all investors, this program, this sale is illegal, it's fake, it's challenging. The individual programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 12 July 2007 is illegal, carried out without the power of the National Assembly and cannot be implemented. And to the Minister of Economy and the President of the Government, when you were still in the opposition, no one hoped for such a thing. And what would we do as opposition Members if someone hoped for such a thing? And here, calmly, before the entire Slovenian public, the National Assembly, the ruling coalition, gives way to the Commission's will to sell state property in Telekom. I think we have come to a very low point in the development of democracy in Slovenia. I'm not surprised at some MPs who make their film, I'm not surprised. I ask you, Members of the ruling coalition, members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy: Will you respect the Law on Public Finance? Will you respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service? President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Legislative and Legal Service here in this National Assembly re-present or even be entitled to adopt such a decree, correct the errors of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u80	Nice greeting, Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the government! We do not attach to the LDS Group a proposal for amendments to the decree. In the LDS, we believe that such a motion for amendments to the decree is a legal disgrace, both for legal experts in the Government, for the Government as a whole and for the coalition. With this proposal, you know, and we all know this in this National Assembly, the full-fledged opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a service that should be an example and a guide in our decision-making, since the coalition did not take note of the fact that such a solution as we have before us today is legally unacceptable from a systemic point of view. If we comment on the whole process of selling the stake of Telekom in this case, the Ministry of Economy's special disputed conduct, which has already issued an international public call for the collection of declarations of interest and offers for the sale of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, and although the Government is trying so hard to explain that it is not a matter of collecting bids. Especially since we know that there was no legal basis when this call was launched. The legal basis for the sale of Telekom is only accepted today by this decree or by such decree as it should be. It is also very strange in this chain of acts that Matjaž Janša’s unreasonable conduct, who, in his public statements himself, reduced the price of Telekom’s shares on the stock exchange. Such action and all of this process show that the Government is in a great hurry to sell Telekom, even if at a lower price than it would have been possible. In this decree, it is also legally disputed that the initial proposed share of 30% of the remuneration with a share is particularly significant with the word up to 49.14%, as this gives the Government the view that 30, 35, 40 or maybe 49.14% of the share is decided or sold. In this case, there is a story from the recapitalisation of NLB, where this word "do" also meant a controversial word, instead of "in" the level of the law on the implementation of the 2007 budget. So the story repeats itself. The government with this kind of behavior is actually giving some strange signal about the reason for the sale. The most likely reason for the sale is that the government is copying the privatisation case of some operators. Here this case reminds us of Telka in Argentina, where one of the immediate objectives of privatisation was to alleviate public financial problems. Statements by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance that in this case they do not hold back the problems of budgeting. It is true that the proceeds of the purchase go to the accounts of financial claims and investments, thereby reducing public debt and public debt interest, which are paid from the balance of revenue and expenditure in the budget. This makes it easier to reduce the public financial deficit, which means that the sale of Telekom improves the balance of revenue and budget expenditure, and this is clearly the goal or purpose of the Government to do so in the way that we are dealing with it today. So, with regard to the vote on the decree, once again, to stress that the LDS does not support the decision, it does not give the Government free time to sell Telekom. And once again, I stress - we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen will tell you what the opinion of the New Slovenia Group is. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A nice greeting to the representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In amending the Decree on the sales programme for State and real property for 2007 and 2008, the State proposes to increase the share of sales in Telekom. In New Slovenia, we are and will stand for the withdrawal of the country from the economy, if this means greater efficiency of businesses, better quality of services, lower prices for consumers or users of services and thus increase the competitiveness of the economy. Studies show that state-owned companies are less efficient and thus prevent economic growth. We are in New Slovenia for such privatisation of Telekom, which will ensure effective management, competitiveness and successful development. The way in which sales were first considered in two phases proved to be ineffective or better said that for the total benefit of sales it is better if the state offered 49.13% stake on the market and retained its own strategic position in society, that is 25% plus one share. A different course of action by the State could cause economic damage to all taxpayers. The Public Finance Act in Article 80 C.E. also allows for the possibility for the Government to amend or supplement the annual sales programme during the implementation of the budget. In Novi Slovenija we believe that changes in the sale of Telekom are being made towards increasing the benefits for the country and its citizens, so we support these changes. The decree also increases the volume of sales of business premises in Brussels, for which it has been shown that Slovenia no longer needs them and that it is most prudent to sell them as soon as possible. Since it is better for the State and its citizens to supplement the above-mentioned amendments, Nova Slovenija supports the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme for State Finance and Real Estate for 2007 and 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In order to avoid wasting time during the voting afternoon, I would ask you to take account of Rule 5 66 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: "If the President of the National Assembly considers that a specific legal question must be resolved at the meeting itself, he shall invite the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to give an oral opinion. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service may require appropriate time to draw up such an opinion." I have already said before, there are great reasons to suggest the illegality of the invitation to tender and, therefore, to the groundlessness of the reasons stated by the Government that we are amending this decree. The Government explains that since it adopted an individual programme on 12 July 2007, it is necessary to amend the decree. In this regard, the legislative and legal service has also drafted an appropriate amendment for the mother's labour force. This amendment has not been supported by Members of the ruling coalition for reasons known. However, we ourselves believe that the entire material, as presented by the Government, is inappropriate - has changed what is earlier. Because of the egg, we're changing the chicken, simply put. We are changing the program because the individual program has made a different decision. I therefore propose that, Presidents, before the vote today, we listen orally, or if we also receive an opinion in writing, on what it means to adopt a decision without duly prepared amendments, such as that prepared for the meeting of the home working body, but rejected. I say this because even if you look at the magnetogram and just the report, it's very controversial questions. If we are going to do this now as the National Assembly, then the governments below are no longer required, in a simplified manner, to adopt a Regulation on the sale of state financial and real property before the beginning of the year. They just say in some law, we're going to sell everything, and then at the end of the year, maybe December 31st, they say, we sold it, that and that, please, after December 31st, by midnight, adopt a decree that will incorporate all these individual programmes into a comprehensive programme. Therefore, we believe that it is justified, before the National Assembly decides today that the Legislative-Legal Service here, for the record, for a magnetogram, should reiterate the dispute over the method of adoption and the unformed corrected text of the decree. I ask you very much, Mr President, that, in accordance with paragraph 5 of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, you will act as I did in my procedural proposal, I think you should explain clearly enough. Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. I would like to remind you, given your procedural question that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, on 10.9.2007 gave an opinion on the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the sale programme of state, financial and real property for 2007 and 2008. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u86	President! I know. It is precisely because of this opinion that a fundamental question has been raised on the home committee as to how to proceed. Therefore, amendments were put in place in order at least to bring the decree in line with the law. Unfortunately, these amendments were not accepted. We have a report here. I'd like to hear the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. Whether the text of the decree, as it is now prepared, follows the Law on Public Finance, or whether the text of the decree proposed by the Government and in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly would still need to be adapted. For we cannot take a decree that is illegal. And since the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, pointed out the illegality of the text of the decree, it would also be necessary to hear it in the National Assembly and then decide how to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u87	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I think that the Rule of Law service is certainly aware of the problem, and I believe that, if necessary, it will also give its opinion before the vote, whether the motion for a decision is legally acceptable or not. Mr Drofenik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u88	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry of Education, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed decree or amendment of the decision on the sale programme of state-owned assets relates to the sale of the stake of Telekom. The sales share increased from 18.39% to 37.53%. There are two reasons to change the ruling. The first is the adoption of the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, and the second is the adoption of a programme to sell the capital investment of the State to Telekom. The decree is still amended in the work relating to the sale of the former premises of the Permanent Representation of Slovenia in Brussels. I must tell you that we have serious concerns in the SLS Group, although we are a coalition party about the intended sale of Telekom's state share. Otherwise, we do not share the opinion of some that the adoption of the individual capital investment programme of the State in Telekom was illegal. We believe, however, that it would make sense before the decision to sell 49.13% of Telekom's share is taken, however, by the decision we are considering today. We accept the Government's arguments on the changed situation in which it decided to increase the share offered for sale, while also stressing that we expect a clear and transparent sale of Telekom's share. The relationship between the Slovenian People's Party and the sale of key state-owned enterprises to foreigners is generally known. The Slovenian People's Party considers that private property represents the central pillar of the environmental, social and market economies, giving individuals more room to decide and thus increasing their personal freedom. Privatisation must be carried out with acceleration but in a very transparent manner. Private ownership is an important instigator of investments and creates a basis for profitable jobs and the income and profits of self-employed people. The state is obliged to protect private property. At the same time, the State must ensure that strategic sectors such as banking, insurance and some other strategic investments remain largely at the hands of domestic legal and natural persons. To this end, we do not support such ownership of the state in these institutions, which represents the possibility of blocking in the statutory field, but at the same time does not allow the state to manage these companies. This is mainly due to centralisation concerns in Europe that could transform our strategic parts of the economy into branches without any impact on strategic decisions and without the possibility of control. We are therefore working towards a transparent completion of privatisation while preserving the key assets of Slovenian ownership, which are important for Slovenia and Slovenia. How, then, can we decide on the proposed decision? Is the sale of Telekom really the best solution today and in the proposed way? Members, we have certain concerns about the support of this decree. The key industries should remain in Slovenian ownership. We are wondering whether an increase in the sales share from the originally projected 30 to 49.14% is necessary. We're advocating gradual privatisation. If there are already arguments for the sale of a larger share, it is particularly important that the assets obtained are used for the right purpose by the sale. The additional resources in the state budget must not be a reason to increase the country's consumption. In accordance with the current guidelines, funds should be used to cover or reduce exclusively public debt. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed decree, while stressing that we expect [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] fully transparent and transparent sales. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, it is not possible to discuss the articles. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the motion for a decree today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. This is on the agenda of the Rules of Procedure on terms, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Fund for the financing of Spartan Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Rules have been submitted by the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Foundation for the Complementary Explanation of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government are warmly welcomed on behalf of the Sports Foundation and 13 saints of the Foundation Council! Special greetings and thanks to President Branko Grimes and all members of the Committee on Education and Sport, who accepted the material today under consideration on 13 September. The next minutes dedicated to Slovenian sport will mark the areas of allocation of funds from gambling. By adopting the amendment of the rules and the new rules for the allocation of the funds of the Sport Foundation, this challenging and important area, which today depends on more than 250 different sports organisations, will become even more transparent, in the procedures simplified and, with the Commission's additional complaints institute, a democratic framework for work. What are the key news? In particular, the new rule will allow for faster allocation of funds. A better, more efficient procedure is defined whereby a decision on the allocation of funds will be issued to operators no later than 28 February and the withdrawal will be possible immediately after signature. The next thing is a developmental attitude. The Foundation wants to focus more resources on sports programmes for children and young people, and less on high-level sports programmes where the commercialisation of sport is greater, it wants to promote more cost-effective programmes for national sector sports associations, together with relevant partners. At the same time, sport also wants to encourage the development of training programmes for the development of individual skills gaps in sport. The next thing is transparency. The Regulation specifies the criteria by point methodologies more precisely. The next thing is simplicity. With appropriate legal security for applicants, a simplified, shorter and cheaper allocation process will be possible. You may be aware that in recent years we have had many problems in terms of the use of the ZUP, where the costs of administration and problems with the resolution of complaints have arisen. The next, not the last thing, is democracy. A new body is defined by the rules, namely the Commission, for complaints made by members of the Ministry, the Olympic Committee and the Professional Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport. Dear Presidents and Members of Parliament! To this point, the Rules and Rules have taken a long way, began in April 2006, when the Sports Foundation called for a broad base of its recipients for public debate, we held extended meetings of all expert committees, opened a wide-ranging expert debate at the consultation on the development issues of Slovenian sport, and adopted opinions and proposals through the Foundation's website. On this basis, the Foundation Council adopted a new regulation. The Rules and Rules also have a positive opinion of the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the Section of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport, and we are convinced that the fitness of these two documents is such that they will effectively withstand the pressures of the Sports Foundation in the coming period. They are also a traveller given by the Foundation’s current leadership on the way to the next composition of leading experts, because our mandate expires in spring 2008 and we intend to turn over the Foundation in good condition, both on both financial and management pay. We have a highly regulated database, we control the costs of the Foundation and our information system, which supports the allocation of funds on calls, works flawlessly. We are not late for the annual invitations to tender and have no major unresolved problems. The task you entrusted us with almost a fifth of the years ago was carried out conscientiously, with the continued awareness of the great responsibility the Foundation has towards its recipients, because without these resources, many operators in the field of sport would not be able to operate at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The Regulation considered the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I give my word to the President, Mr Mag. Branku Grims - to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The Rules on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the financing of sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia were actually discussed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport at two meetings. This is the first time he has dealt with it since the beginning of the summer, more precisely the last day of June. At that time, he adopted a decision to postpone the decision and invited the applicant to complete the act. Let me just say what this was all about. Our wish was, and this was also pointed out at the time in the government's position to include a scoring system in the regulation. This makes the allocation of funds more transparent and avoids any possibility of changing anything in the course of the distribution itself, and thus includes such inclusion in the interests of the rule of law, that is, confidence in the rule of law, as of course in the interest of sports organisations, athletes, that is to say those to whom this money is intended. The proposer accepted this suggestion and reached a conclusion. And then, in its second reading, on 13.9.2007, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport unanimously and without discussion, assessed the complementary draft rules as positive. We therefore propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to give its consent. Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! At the 25th meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport of the National Assembly, it was decided that the Regulation should be supplemented with precise criteria or point methodologies for the allocation of funds. Point-rated criteria are to be defined only in the implementing act of the Regulation, immediately prior to the invitation to tender. Such a formulation was overly loose because it could have meant adapting to each situation and would have led to a lower standard of transparency of the allocation of funds of the Foundation. The current material under consideration has been duly supplemented in accordance with the decision. We estimate that the criteria entered are clearly defined, carefully worked out and properly scored. We therefore believe that consent to the rule of law can be expressed. Otherwise, among the novelty of the Regulation, which we also consider to be positive and appropriate, it is also possible to observe the involvement of the national sport programme, which will build solutions that will accurately define the conditions and criteria for the allocation of funds in accordance with the definitions of the national sport programme that define public interest in sport, and with the guidelines and strategic objectives of sport in Slovenia adopted by the umbrella sport organisation. Furthermore, we welcome the possibility of co-financing younger representatives who have been neglected compared to members so far because they have been commercially uninterested. With the possibility of co-financing sports equipment, which has not been available so far, there is a greater possibility of development in those sports where expensive sports equipment is needed for the performances. In the field of interesting sports education of children and youth, as well as interesting sports activities of students and sports recreation, opportunities are opened for the development of new programmes co-financed by the Foundation, such as regular training, sports camps and mass recreation events. However, the share of co-financing of technologies in the field of research and development of sport is also increasing. In the light of the above, we agree with the text of the Rules of Procedure in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The rules on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Sport Foundation regulate the classification of sports industries in classes according to their performance in terms of the achievement of the strategic objectives of sport in Slovenia. Time limits are laid down for the adoption of the annual work programme of the Foundation, the financial plan and certain other things. In the past, complaints have often been made about the public tenders of the Sports Foundation and it seems important to us that the Regulation is supplemented and that it now includes criteria or criteria for the allocation of funds. Several times we were also reminded by the SDS Members that during the invitation to tender the criteria or criteria changed, i.e. during the duration of the tender procedure, and thus, of course, the equal treatment of all investors was not possible. We are confident that the new rule, which now contains all these things, will no longer happen. We therefore support the Rules on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of the funds of the Sport Foundation and we will give it our agreement in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk only, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Social Democrats Group will give its consent or support to the Rules on the Conditions, Criteria and Procedure for the allocation of the Fund for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of the Sport Foundation has already adopted a decision in June 2006 to draw up a new Regulation on the allocation of funds for financing sport organisations. In this good year, the National Sports Assembly’s parent committee has dealt with this subject three times. The debate at the June meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport was quite unusual and even politicised against expectations. Members of the coalition, for example, have come to their attention with the statement made by the Director of the Sport Foundation that his claim on the country's motherly attitude towards sport is quite a political definition. The distribution of the financial resources itself was then problematic, with the fact that the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion in 2006 on the supervision of the business of the Sport Foundation. The Sports Foundation has no simple task, as the expectations of sports organisations and societies and the entire sport sphere are very high. It is necessary to coordinate very different interests and to ensure transparent and purposeful use of resources. Perhaps in the past, some of the applicants may have been unwittingly overlooked, but I believe that this has then been adequately resolved. In 2007 alone, 1214 applications for co-financing arrived at the Foundation's invitation to tender, during the second term and between 2003 and 2007, a total of 5,580 applications were received and 2,361 programmes were financed. The applications therefore exceeded the financial capacity of the Foundation five times. On the basis of recommendations from members and members of the National Assembly, the Sport Foundation Council has supplemented the Rules of Procedure with methodologies and has incorporated them into individual provisions of the Rules. The allocation criteria shall be supplemented for individual programme evaluation elements by point scales. As the director of the Foundation, Dr. Jurak, pointed out at the September meeting of the Committee, the Regulation was established in a broad discussion among sports workers and also obtained the approval of the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the professional Sport Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Foundation funds cover 40% of the national sport programme in our country. Let me say that, at the September meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, we have adopted the rules without a vote against them, so the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u100	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues from the Sports Foundation, Members and Members of Parliament, a nice welcome! I must say that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are pleasantly surprised to be able to consider a legal act on which there were no comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, for which the drafters took the time to harmonise it for the professional and interested public with the position and opposition, and this is a rare event in this National Assembly. As a result, the members of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, without any discussion, have adopted this decree or regulation and will continue to do so. So the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will give full support to the adoption of the relevant decision. Mr Vice-President, since the same argument for the next legal act applies, on behalf of the Group of Members, I give up my word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to everyone who's been following us. The Rules on the Conditions, Criteria and Procedure for the Distribution of Funds of the Foundation for the Co-financing of Sports Organisations of the Republic of Slovenia lay down, in particular, the conditions for the co-financing of operators of the annual work programme of the Foundation, the criteria for the allocation of funds to operators of the annual work programme and the procedure for the allocation of funds of the Foundation. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that the rule goes towards greater transparency, greater clarity and greater fairness in the allocation of funds. The criteria are clearly set out in this Regulation and can no longer be changed just before the invitation to tender or even during the invitation to tender, as has been the case in the past. For us, a clear direction is important and the standards are the same for everyone. Compared to the current regulation, a new regulation lies ahead of us in the direction of reducing the share of high-quality sport and in the direction of increasing the share of sports education for children and young people targeted at high-quality and high-quality sport. The new regulation sets out the types of programmes to be co-financed by the Sports Foundation, namely the programmes of regular sports exercises, sports camps and programmes of mass sports recreational events, as these events encourage unorganised sports activities, which are more than one year-on-year, and it is also right for the Foundation to support such activities. The new regulation provides much more precisely for the allocation of funds and at the same time provides for a faster allocation of funds from the Foundation. It also identifies the procedure for concluding the contract and the intention to use the funds of the Foundation and identifies the new body, namely the Complaints Commission. In New Slovenia, we believe that the new rule is going towards greater transparency, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much. And Mr. Marjan Drofenik, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u104	Dear Vice President, Madam Secretary, Members, Members of Parliament! As already mentioned, in 2006 the Council of the Sport Foundation adopted a decision to adopt a new regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedures for the allocation of the funds of the Sport Foundation. In accordance with the amendment to the Regulation, amendments and additions to the Foundation’s rules were also required. As a result of the change in both, the proposal is more precise in terms of the allocation of funds from the Foundation, as well as faster procedures in this regard. The government also made some comments on this proposal at first, one of the biggest concerns being the Complaints Commission, which is envisaged by the new rules as one of the so-called occasional commissions. The idea goes in this direction that the Commission would not be very credible, as one of the members of this Commission would be appointed by the first-degree decision-making body, i.e. the Sports Foundation Council, and the possibility of irregularities would be increased. Doubts also arose regarding the appeal procedure itself. The proposal to amend and supplement the Foundation rules should be understood together with the rules on the conditions, criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds of the Foundation. The Committee and the Government proposed corrections, and in June this year a proposal for amendments and an update of the Foundation's rules on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport was agreed upon. We will also give agreement to this proposal to the Members of the SLS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for an agreement to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT RULES OF THE FUND FOR THE FINANCING OF SPORT ORGANISATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia submitted amendments and additions to the rules for consideration by the assembly. Amendments and additions to the rules were considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. As with the previous act, we have also considered these rules twice in the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, for the first time having decided to postpone the final decision and to propose an appropriate amendment to the applicant, several comments have been made, some have been mentioned so far in the debate, but those who have gone towards greater transparency of procedures have been involved in the allocation of funds, as this is both in the interest of public finances on the one hand and of users in particular, namely sports organisations, and in order to allow time for the necessary completion of the acts, we have then a definitively completed act, which the applicant has fully completed in accordance with the Committee's decision, discussed at the meeting on 13 September. At the examination of the completed acts, however, there were no further comments, no more concerns, our joint assessment was that these are acts that will allow more quality and, above all, more transparent work for the benefit of sports organisations, i.e. for the benefit of Slovenian sport, which is certainly our common goal. For this reason, and on the basis of this common consensus, it was decided unanimously that the rules should also be proposed in agreement with the National Assembly and that we should propose to Members and Members that they vote in favour of consensus and thus allow for better quality work to be done in Slovenian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia are being made to the current arrangements that set out the conditions, criteria and procedures or set out. Permanent expert and periodic expert committees shall be established. Permanently consider applications for the Foundation's invitation to tender in specific areas and periodically, such as the Calling Commission, the Complaints Commission or the like, which are linked to the Council's decision or, above all, to the Council's mandate. We also agree with these amendments and additions in the Slovenian Democratic Party and will support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I've said most of the things I've said before when I'm considering the rules. This debate was very turbulent on the parental committee, as it was said, in June this year, while the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia were already adopted without particular discussion. We also do not have any comments in the Group of Social Democrats to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, and we will also support these complementary rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjetka Uhan, on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u112	The amendments to the rules relate mainly to the replacement of the name of the rules on allocation of funds and the new definition of expert commissions. The two new Commissions will also be following, namely the Calling Commission and the Complaints Commission, which will ensure the effective resolution of complaints. As the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are being amended in order to improve these, we will support the proposed changes in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Drofenik, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u114	Mr. Vice President, government representatives. As previously said, the Slovenian People's Party agrees and will support the proposed amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Mr. Rudolf Moge. [[He's quitting.]] Does he want a word from a government representative and a proponent? [[No, no, ……]] Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal for an agreement on amendments and amendments to the rules in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIRD REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A MEDICINAL PRODUCT LEGISLATION. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. Since there are no government representatives yet, we have quite quickly completed the agenda item so far, I propose a 10-minute recess. We'll continue the meeting at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u116	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. As we say, we are at the 21st item of the agenda, the proposal for a medical bill. And as Vice President Klavora said, we have two hours and 40 minutes for this item. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading, so I give the floor to Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic, Minister of Health, for an introductory explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u117	Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Presidents! The proposal for a medical bill is now in third reading, but it means a step towards regulating an area that interferes with several spheres of life. The basic principle of the law is to protect the user of medical services, which can cause irreparable harm to his health due to medical incapacity or to discourage him from treating his doctor. We must point out that medicine deals with a wide range of people with different types of education, professions and skills. And that is why there are many different interests in the case of this law. Medicine is defined in the draft law as an activity carried out by physicians in order to improve the health of the user. It is first of all to help or treat a person in the event of a disease, and it is also up to the physicians to take responsibility for it. This responsibility will also be ensured by obtaining a licence to ensure that the service user uses the services of a person who is professionally qualified for the independent implementation of medical systems and medical methods and has medical or medical education or knowledge from medical content. In order to carry out the tasks, the Ministry of Health will grant public authority to the Medical Chamber to establish itself not later than one year after the adoption of the law. The Ministry needs an interlocutor in this area who will have an overview of the entire medicine and not just the individual professional associations. At its 30th meeting on 10 July 2007, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a second reading of the draft Law on Medicine and adopted amendments on 6, 31, 33a, 38, 50 and 51. Under the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to prepare a proposal for a third-reading medicine law. The bill before you has adopted the amendments and is ready for third reading. With the adoption of amendments to the draft law, there have been disagreements in some of the provisions so far, and we are also proposing harmonisation amendments. In view of the above, we propose that you adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Ivan Grill will give his position to the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u119	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have a third reading of the Health Act and this area has been left to the market in Slovenia, and in most cases this activity has been carried out in the form of economic activities and has not been regulated in the law so far. In such situations, physicians engaged in non-professional activities without any supervision and appropriately avoided any possible responsibilities. The users of these services themselves have also opted for the choice of physician at their own discretion and often in the absence of relevant information. And that's why they decided primarily for those providers of such services and methods that had the most sophisticated advertising or marketing methods, which does not mean that their methods were also the most appropriate in solving problems or diseases. For irresponsible work or even possible deterioration of the health of the user, even such cases have always been large, this person could only be persecuted by a civil suit. However, this was a difficult and long-lasting process. And finally, the healers themselves were left to themselves and their ingenuity, except perhaps for a few exceptions. They carried out their work primarily as individuals, more or less quality, without supervision, without assistance and organised additional education. According to informal data, there have already been several thousand doctors in Slovenia and the interest in such matters has been growing and growing lately. In the world and Europe, the legal order of this area is different according to tradition and past legislation. Therefore, none of these comparisons can be directly transposed into our legal order. That is why the drafting of this law has been a long and difficult task, and this has been done successfully by the Ministry of Health, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The content of this law follows in particular the three objectives which we fully support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The first and most important objective for us is to protect the users of these services from harm to their health, due to the potential unprofessional and irresponsible work of individual doctors or even charlatans. The second important objective is to regulate the unregulated area so far, to determine as much as possible the types of treatments, health care providers, the manner in which this activity is carried out, to maintain the relevant documentation, which, of course, is also extremely important to ensure that education is uniform and that the basic level of medical knowledge is raised. And the third objective, which is also extremely important, is to put in place adequate control of this area, which will benefit users and, lastly, doctors themselves. On the establishment of this law, we also met with a number of companies in the field of medicine, including individuals, and exchanged reasoned views, and on the basis of this we also proposed some amendments that were adopted in the previous hearing. We are convinced that this law has been further improved by the original text. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law is extremely useful for our country, especially for our users, and that, of course, we will also support it in the third reading. However, in order to say that the two amendments tabled by the two parties will not be supported, as the amendment is practically changing the essential concept of the existing law, so it cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Comrade Bojan Kontič will give the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The story repeats, the amendments are rejected in both second and third readings, and we will get a law that is at the will of the government coalition. In the general discussion that we held at the meeting of the National Assembly, we also agreed with the Social Democrats on the evaluation of the proposer, that the medicine in Slovenia was left to the market at the moment and that it was not regulated by law. At the same time, however, we proposed and argued that it was necessary to regulate it in a way that would find an appropriate solution that would, in particular, protect the users of these services. We have also been opinions, and we insist on this today that solutions should be introduced into the law that will bring official medicine closer to alternative and complementary treatment methods. People’s concerns and opinions are very interesting when asked about their opinion on official medicine, when asked about alternative medicine and complementary treatment methods. And in these polls, they answer differently. Some reject alternative treatment methods, swear only and only on official medicine, again reject conditionality, so as long as official medicine can help, it is an official medicine when they lose hope in official medicine, then the path to alternative medicine and complementary treatment methods for them is acceptable, that is to say as an emergency exit. Many, however, respond in the way that we in the Group of Social Democrats have advocated, that formal and alternative medicine be brought closer together, that they are building each other up, and that the user is protected in this way as the user must be protected. Let me repeat the conclusion of the Slovenian Homeopathic Society that the Ministry of Health did not conduct the procedure for the preparation of the Medical Law in accordance with the principles of equality, fairness, openness, accessibility, responsiveness, competence and ultimately traceability. The working group did not have equal representation of representatives involved in alternative and complementary treatments in Slovenia. The general treatment also resulted in the finding that the regulation, when we introduce a new chamber, is inappropriate or that better regulation within the Ministry of Health. In view of the state of law that we have today, the general treatment was merely an opportunity to discuss the opposition with ourselves. But the marriage stays the way it was. In the second reading, we tabled amendments and summarized on the committee those presented by representatives of the homeopathic society. In this we had two completely different concepts. That is true and we do not contest this finding of the applicant. The government's proposal on one and the opposition concept on the other, homeopaths routed the middle path between both concepts, both government and opposition, trying to find a middle way. So it's kind of a compromise. Almost nothing was acceptable to the government majority. We wouldn't say anything new. Thus, in fact, in the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, we could only propose beautiful corrections, since most of the articles of the law, which came from the second reading of the working body at the hearing of the National Assembly, were closed. So, the amendments, the changes in the text and the improvement of the law were prevented. This time, for the third hearing, we have tabled amendments to the opposition groups. The concept introduced by the text of the draft Law on Medicine is therefore a solution which we cannot attach in the Group of Social Democrats, despite the fact that we are aware that this area needs to be regulated by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club regrets that the proposal for a law that we are considering today, despite thorough consideration in the National Assembly, still brings with it enormous shortcomings, inadequacies and still does not recognise medicine, medical methods and medical systems. We regret that in today's day when patients need an integrated treatment, a comprehensive treatment, we have not found a way to achieve the common purpose of patients involved in health care and in the interests of the patient or patient. Thus today's bill still completely distinguishes medicine from modern medicine and sets a healer for an entrepreneur or an economic company and a patient for a consumer or user of services. For us, it would be understandable that a normative regime would set very strict gaps in the cases of non-medical treatment, in the field of religion, esotericism, spiritism, occultism and so on, while, of course, regulating those areas that should be intertwined in a way that would benefit the patient. We ask how we can still allow a medical activity to be an economic company, firm, plant or entrepreneur and thus open the door to the economy and entrepreneurship before treatment. In doing so, we may be surprised to learn that, in an interview by the gentleman, now the former Minister, for the evening of 28 July 2007, we read: "We also do not restrict doctors if they use medical methods in their regular work, in regular working hours without additional payment." Therefore, we are now again wondering what are the medical methods, which are the medical systems that a doctor can use in this way. We do not know this today before the third hearing and the final confirmation of this law. We have talked a lot about how we should talk about traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment instead of using the term "medical" instead of the term "conductor of traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment", but unfortunately our arguments, like many times, have not been heard or heard. In the Chamber of Medicine of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, we have pointed out the necessary medical room. We asked why we needed it and financed it from the state budget if, on the other hand, the provisions of the Company Act applied to medicinal activities. Our position was that the Ministry of Health should play a more responsible role in the area of traditional, complementary and alternative forms of treatment in terms of public health care. This responsibility cannot and must not be passed on to the Medical Chamber, since the Chamber always protects the narrow interests of its members, while the Ministry of Health is the one who has to take care of public health in terms of national, general interest. Above all, in the interest of any individual who should always be given the best, we stress, the best possible health care. The ruling coalition was the one that advocated voluntary membership in the chambers of commerce. The health activity is therefore defined as a gainful activity in the draft law and can therefore only be organised in accordance with the Company Act. So, this also means that there are already legal grounds for the treatments to be set up by the Medical Chamber under the Company Act. Some healers are already members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and are joining in two sections, in the section of natural therapy therapists and in the section of reflexotherapy. We have proposed that the holder of public powers should only perform tasks financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, the professional supervision, the public register of members of medical systems and medical methods, and participate in the preparation of regulations, but together with professional associations, for each system or for each method individually. The medicine is not a single activity and therefore the Chamber cannot be professionally trained to monitor and evaluate the implementation and development of medicine. Only professional services or professional associations can do this. It is also within the competence of individual associations to adopt an ethical code and operating standards for individual methods. Therefore, in the LDS Club, we insist that the Ministry of Health in the Law should set out, inter alia, the following: for the first time, a compulsory curriculum of basic medical knowledge for operators and publish it in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, by invitation to tender, establish the providers of a certified education programme and establish an official examination centre for the verification of basic medical knowledge. Thirdly - to appoint members of the Commission each year to verify basic medical knowledge. Fourthly - keep a public register of operators. Fifthly, to issue and withdraw authorisations for operators to carry out their activities. Six - to supervise the implementation of activities and for the week - to ensure the implementation of public calls for proposals for scientific research projects. As one of the proponents of a number of amendments, the proposer cannot tell us that we have not offered a variety of different solutions in the entire process of dealing with the Medical Law. We have offered more, we have offered a different concept of regulating this area, which we believe would be to regulate significantly better quality, especially in the sense that we would put the user of health services, the user of all services that complement and alternative medicine, at the core. However, without having carried out a "Cost-Benefit" analysis or in-depth comparative study, as regulated in the Member States of the European Union, the proposer has written a law, that is to say that he has written such a law, which makes Slovenia one of the rare states of the world which requires strict and complete separation of conventional and non-conventional medicine. Such a law can only reflect the fact that the applicant did not have, as a first priority, a patient, but rather pursued other objectives in the interest of other stakeholders. Thus, the adoption of the law will now effectively and legally separate Slovenian official medicine from traditional, complementary and alternative medicine and thus deprive the doctor of the freedom to decide on the most favourable treatment for each individual, while at the same time denying patients the possibility of free and informed choice for the most favourable treatment. We can only ask how in this light the Law on the Rights of Patients, which introduces this as one of the very important, fundamental, general rights. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we therefore believe that Slovenia is delaying this and at the same time is wasting the opportunity to regulate this area in a modern way and in line with trends in the world that are heading towards convergence and not separation. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, in line with all the views expressed so far, with all the discussions that have been held and with all the amendments that have been tabled so far, we cannot support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much. However, colleague Jožef Horvat will give the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, with fellow Members of Parliament, honourable Members! In the third reading, the New Slovenia Group will support the Proposal for a Health Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly, as it is very important that the area of medicine in the future is governed by a specific medical law that would regulate the situation both for operators and for users of services. That the law is necessary we believe primarily from the point of view that in Slovenia it is necessary to definitively regulate the legal situation in the field of medicine and in particular to protect the health and life of people from some self-declared charlatans and lubricators who do not even have the necessary basic medical knowledge to carry out medical activities and whose primary objective is profit. We are convinced that the charlatans and the lubricators have had a negative impact on the transparency of this treatment offer in Slovenia and in particular on the reputation of physicians who carry out their work on the basis of professional references and have been using methods in their work that have been in place for a long time in the world. The key reason for the adoption of the law is in particular that the State makes it possible for healers to have a legal basis for their work and to legally protect the users of the services mentioned above. However, under the protection of legal protection, people can freely decide which treatment or possible complementary treatment they choose. The proposal for a Health Care Act provides for the establishment of a Medical Chamber, which assumes certain duties and, inter alia, exercise professional supervision of healers. For example, under the responsibility of the Medical Chamber, the granting, extension and withdrawal of a licence, if the physician would have committed a serious breach of the Code of Professional Ethics or made a major professional error at work. The licence would also be permanently withdrawn if the treatment or abandonment of the physician would result in permanent or worse consequences for human health or even the death of the user. In its comments to date, the Slovenian Homeopathic Society was quite critical of the establishment of the Medical Chamber as it considered that it would be sufficient for the Ministry of Health to designate a public authority, for example, a public agency, to be critical of the licensing of doctors and to consider that licences are not necessary as they are fully sufficient to register in the public register. In the New Slovenia Group, we strongly reject the comments of this society as unfounded, as it is important, in principle, that tasks and responsibilities are transferred to the lowest possible level, closer to the provider and closer to the service user. Since the Ministry is too far away from medical science itself, it is therefore important, in terms of transparency, that the Medical Chamber oversees the operators of medicinal activities and assumes some responsibility for its work. We are convinced that, on the one hand, if we are to provide quality services, it is necessary, on the other hand, to determine precisely and clearly who is responsible for the implementation and also to control those services. The draft law also lays down, inter alia, the conditions for obtaining a licence, such as obtaining an appropriate public document by a recognised institution competent for education on medical systems or medical methods. We believe that these conditions for obtaining a licence are necessary if we are to ensure the expertise of healthcare providers. In the future, it will also be necessary to specify which health education institutions are sufficient to meet the criteria of expertise and are therefore relevant in meeting the conditions for obtaining a licence. We believe that the key role in setting the criteria must be played by the Medical Chamber in particular, since it is important for those in charge of medical supervision to participate in the determination of the criteria and to take responsibility for their work. In Slovenia, it must never happen again, because of the charlatans and the lubricators, that the health condition of people deteriorates or that because of the incompetence of the healer people lose their lives, which we have already witnessed in the past. However, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to exercise control over the Medical Chamber and healers, and to sanction in due time any derogations from the legal provisions laid down, since the State is obliged to take care of the highest level of health protection. The draft law also provides, inter alia, that medical activities may be carried out only by persons who have received at least a secondary health education and the licence already in force. In order to carry out activities in the field of homeopathy, the draft law requires stricter conditions than the completion of a degree in medical school, acquired knowledge from homeopathy, and a valid licence. Among other things, the bill prohibits misleading advertising. Before starting treatment, your doctor should be aware of the health problems of your user and of the medical documentation of your doctor. If the physician suspects worse signs of disease or worsening of chronic disease, the user should be advised to offer the services to medically treated immediately. In coalition coordination, the law in the National Assembly made an additional proposal by the New Slovenia Group that the licence should be permanently withdrawn from a physician who does not immediately refer to medically treated patients with severe signs of disease or worsening chronic disease. An additional proposal was also adopted in the criminal provisions to penalise the said physician or society, in the event of the above infringement, with a fine of up to EUR 20 000. These supplements are primarily necessary in order to direct healthcare users in cases of serious illness or worsening medical conditions to medical treatment immediately. However, this is an additional pressure on the physician not to discourage the users of the services from medical treatment but to encourage them to do so. We believe that this proposal is very important because, in the current practice, there has been a large proportion of the infringements. In view of the fact that homeopathy activities can only be carried out by graduates of the Faculty of Medicine, it seems important for us to cooperate at least at the informal level with one another from the Medical Chamber in the future. On the basis of their cooperation and exchange of views and experience, we can expect a comprehensive solution to patients' problems in the future. In the Polish Group of New Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the Law on Medicine, because we believe that, based on past events, it is better to have a somewhat stricter regulation and that in the future it is important to protect human life in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u127	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Madam Minister with co-worker and co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin this presentation of my position with one personal experience. A few days ago, I talked to one of the doctors about our health situation in Slovenia, as well as this law, and he said to me: "Mr. Bajc, if doctors had time to talk to patients, probably half the pharmacy would have failed, and we doctors and other medical personnel would have to do much less. This also provides an answer to the role of public health or public health care in the field of alternative medicine. The conversation and the time, by actually making this possible and also paying properly. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law on medicine. While there have been some heated debates about the law, it is important to stress that this is certainly a complex issue and a solution to complex issues. We will support the law mainly for the reasons already stated in the previous debates and presentations on the positions of the Slovenian People's Party, because the adoption of the provisions of the law ensures the safety of the health of the users of the medicine. Therefore, according to this law, the activities carried out by healers in order to improve the health of users of these services. The law also more precisely defines individual concepts, systems and methods that can be used by healers in their work. Above all, it seems important to us that their records are also established. It is well known that this area is very different in the world, from complete market abandonment and demand, to restrictions on healthcare professionals only, it can be recognised in parallel to medicine or integrated into medicine. We support the proposaler's intention to seek to raise the doctor's basic knowledge by law and to provide quality and transparency work and professional supervision of this work. Efforts are also known to ensure that the World Health Organisation, which is also a member of Slovenia, in its strategy calls for a link between traditional medicine and complementary and alternative medicine to be integrated into the national health system. By resolution 1206, the Council of Europe called on Member States to submit and accelerate comparative studies and research programmes in the field of traditional and complementary medicine. On 28 May 1997, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the status of non-conventional medicine. This requires the countries of the European Union to initiate processes for the formal recognition of non-conventional forms of medicine based on studies and the development of research programmes on the safety and effectiveness of complementary or alternative forms of treatment. These guidelines are, according to some opinions, not properly incorporated into the law itself. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the law introduces the right steps to regulate this area, and in the adoption process a number of amendments have been introduced in the text of the law, and the amendments have been introduced, mainly control and records, so that we will support the law of the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Comrade Bajc. Ms Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Medicine, which is before us today at the third reading, unfortunately, the unrelated Members of the Union, Zares, will not be supported. What happened was what we expected. A weak, controversial and exclusive law, which is ultimately inconsistent with all those involved in complementary and alternative medicine, was submitted to the parliamentary procedure by the former Minister, Dr Bručan. Almost unchanged, he survived all stages of treatment without adequate and meaningful additions. Therefore, despite the urgent need for the Complementary and Alternative Medicine Act in Slovenia, there will be a bitter taste in the end that it might even be better if we did not have the law. Only a hook in the government programme will be made, and there will be no benefits. Not for patients and patients, especially in terms of their safety, nor for providers of complementary and alternative medicine. Why do we have to go against it? A few arguments that we have repeated many times. Since the law, by its title and the definition of complementary and alternative medicine as medicines, clearly expresses an under-appreciative attitude and argues that medicine only improves health and quality of life, but cannot follow modern trends in the text or proposers in the text of the law, including those of the European Union, which speak of complementary and alternative medicine as being healthy. We will also oppose because the World Health Organisation is calling for the integration into national health systems of the link and cooperation between complementary alternative medicine on the one hand and traditional medicine on the other. Our marriage at the beginning, on the basis of it, is essentially not based on this fact, but remains among the medicines to which the law shows a humiliating and inferior relationship, on the one hand, and between the traditional medicine on the other side of the high barrier. It is based on strict separation, not complementarity, cooperation and the like. The cooperation between traditional medicine and complementary and alternative medicine is also encouraged by a number of circles of medical professions, which unfortunately did not cooperate properly in the preparation of this law and was not heard; the law has been prepared, as I have pointed out many times before, by doctors and doctors alone and only this spirit branch of this law and unfortunately among them the most conservative part which has a negative relation to everything that is close to complementary and alternative medicine. Among doctors - and we have invited them several times, including in public, and we have jointly prepared press conferences, highlighting the INTA Group - The Open Doctors' Dialogue on Integrative Medicine. They called on the Association of Nurses, Grandmas and Medical Technicians to participate in a special committee on complementary and natural healing, which specifically invited you to cooperate, because they have already taken major steps in this area. Some of the most recognised and respected performers in the field of complementary and alternative medicine also point out that the law is not good, let me mention Dr. Papugo, Zdenko Domančič, Zivana Krevelo and similar, who have even announced public withdrawal and gone to illegal or perhaps again across the border. Perhaps it is in the interest of someone else to return or return to Opatija, Lake Vrb, Samobor, and similar places. I hope that wasn't the purpose of the law, though maybe. The law does not follow a Council of Europe resolution calling for the support and acceleration of comparative studies and research in the field of complementary and alternative medicine. Why research, why studies? In order to determine on their basis which forms of treatment are safe and effective. There's not a word about that in our marriage. The European Union demands that official processes for the recognition of non-conventional forms of medicine be initiated, and we have not been able in law or to state health methods and systems, the law will be the weakest in the field of complementary and alternative medicine, and this will remain open and the possibility of different interpretations has already been built-in conflict. The law is intended to protect and protect users of complementary and alternative medicine and therefore professional competence and education in the field of complementary and alternative medicine is essential. Many of you have expressed great satisfaction in this area. I am skeptical. The law, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Zares Group, has not achieved this objective, as the medicine will be excluded from the Ministry of Health's competence. The Ministry of Health has fully withdrawn, put its hands aside and leaves this to the healers themselves. Everything will be in their hands, in the hands of certain groups. And in this place, I also express my fear of colossal negotiation within the future healing chamber. Such a challenging task, along with supervision, it is not appropriate to leave the future Medical Chamber. According to our assessment, the Ministry is moving too far and avoiding responsibility and control, which should be in the interests of users in particular, entirely within the framework of its operation. This is how many lands are arranged, including in our neighboring countries. I think that the ministry has decided too quickly that without proper consideration of the consequences, public powers are left indifferently by the future Medical Chamber, which, in our opinion, will act more than an economic activity, but not as a real institution that can take care of it, because they will control themselves, they will set themselves the rules of the game, they will determine everything for themselves. The Ministry will monitor this only from the outside. We have proposed and requested; this is what I want to remind you of; that within the Ministry, similar demands have been made by the Council of State; organised an office or sector for this area, but unfortunately you have not taken this into account. According to our assessment, licences should be awarded at national level and have pre-written, precise conditions for obtaining them. There are no conditions for a license in the law and we can expect a conflict of action with the outbreaks of clientelism and, of course, further earnings in this area. However, it is still in the air and there is still fear that doctors, doctors of medicine will be prevented from engaging in complementary and alternative medicine, as it is still an open question whether they will be deprived of their medical licenses if they are involved in complementary and alternative medicine. Otherwise, at the end of the day, let me say that we have already given up on the policies and laws prepared by the health coalition. The coalition is still convinced that it is doing the right thing, but it is clear that our warnings and our criticisms have proved to be quite accurate. In one year we experienced, according to our assessment, a catastrophic fall in our health care on the international scale. I think it is right that today, when these results are made public, we say this in this place too, because in the effectiveness of our health care within Europe, we have fallen from first place to twentieth place and from twelfth place to twenty-first place with regard to the kindness of the health system. What Slovenian patients and patients have known for a very long time, obviously we have now been confirmed internationally and told from the outside. This and similar bad solutions are also followed by a law that today, in view of what has already been presented and how much support the law enjoys, will obviously be passed. However, according to our assessment, and we firmly believe this, the area of complementary and alternative medicine will not be better regulated than it was before, but there will be more conflicts, more problems, more problems that this law actually opens up than it solves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At this moment, let me welcome all twelve Members and Members, six Professional Fellows and two Government representatives and the leadership of the National Assembly! Given that the content, the subject matter, at least in the Slovenian National Party, is collected to such an extent, there is much more paper here than if it were completely full of halls, let us leave this. Dear Madam Minister, welcome to the first time among us! According to the Slovenian National Party, the bill is still poor. Amendments have been adopted that have not helped to improve the content of the first reading, but now we are in the third. The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group objected to the adoption of the law, and we also proposed amendments to the parent working body of the amendment for the second reading, and none was adopted. Okay, that's why we're not gonna cry. Surprisingly, only amendments of the coalition and even two amendments of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia were accepted, in my personal opinion or in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, and these two are likely to be mistaken. But let's just leave it. The purpose of the law was to regulate medical activities, identify the type of medical activities, performers of medicinal activities, the manner in which the activity is carried out and establish a chamber. So these were the basic problems that we came up with in this marriage. And what was going on? When there was a public debate on the proposal, this proposal was most opposed by some groups of healers. Why, we're wondering. The claim was, the proposal was inconsistent with the profession, they considered that the law on the medical profession could not be written by someone who did not have an appropriate professional education and practice in medicine. Interestingly, they were dissatisfied with the bill in the Medical Chamber as well. They considered that the public powers of the medical chambers deriving from the law were not appropriate to be financed from the State budget. Therefore, they proposed to the Ministry a reflection on this part of the law. According to the Medical Chamber, the medicine is profitable and thus marketable. From here on out, the story develops. The Ministry of Health has not carried out a basic study, a study to give an accurate and objective situation in Slovenia and has obtained a good and feasible law on the basis of the findings. This is the fact that these are the findings that are recorded in the studies. Since basic research has not been carried out, it is only in the Slovenian National Party that we believe that the Ministry of Health does not know who today is in Slovenia, written under the terms "health doctor". The Ministry of Health did not conduct the procedure for the preparation of the medical law in accordance with the good practice in force in the Slovenian State Administration; it is also a finding that has not grown on our herbs. The working group did not have equal representation of representatives involved in alternative and complementary treatments in Slovenia. These are also the facts that we cite. We've seen a great deal of avoiding the term "complementary" and "alternative" medicine. Slovenian medicine is not considered as part of a health care activity, but as part of an economic activity, which is most disturbing. Thus, patients are not "patients", but are "service users", Slovenian physicians "do not heal" but are "service providers", and Slovenian doctors are explicitly prohibited from using alternative and complementary treatment methods, but if they want to use them to lose their license, they become people who have graduated from medical school. Well, since I didn't make this up, it's all written down after three treatments after many treatments on the parent's working body. Medical systems and medical methods are not adequately defined. I'm talking about Articles 4 and 5. You can challenge that, too, but look at these articles. Some realize that I will be very brief are incomprehensible to an average reader and simply do not belong to a marriage. If you want to compare "biofields, coherent, endogenous, bioelectric magnetic field" and so on. The arguments that we have listed in the Slovenian National Party are based on three discussions or on the right in the third reading, based on discussions on the working bodies of the Slovenian National Party - these are not fictitious ideas. Finally, by adopting such a bill, Slovenia believes that Slovenia will close the door to health care for all complementary and alternative treatments. Slovenia will remain an isolated European island, a conservative official medicine, in the 21st century, where there will be no room for other treatments that are not scientifically proven. Not only does it deny doctors the freedom to choose the most appropriate therapeutic method, but it also denies patients the possibility of free and informed choice of treatment. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, either by adopting this proposal or by adopting this proposal, the National Assembly will create another imprudent bureaucratic organisation that will take care of its own interests and not of the interests of users. It is not about what we have already heard about charlatanism, about who is subject to alternative medicine, which is not an alternative medicine by law, and dies, a simple message - let the law settle and give everyone who wants to help people. But let us not forget that people die if they are treated with an official medicine doctor, or if we are treated with alternative medicine doctors, we die as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Mr Žnidaršič is expected to present the position of the DeSUS Group. Anybody else? No, no, no. We have then concluded by presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a law. A colleague of mags. Andrei Bručan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u133	Dear President, Madam Minister! The debate on this law was a lengthy one. Since I myself have been mentioned several times as a lawmaker, I must also return. I must say that we have been preparing the law all along in cooperation with various groups of healers. Those who have spoken to the healers now know that their interests within individual groups are very different and that different opinions need to be coordinated all the time, not only among the physicians themselves, but also among other interested groups, including doctors. Today, many things have been said in the presentation of the proposals of the groups of Members, which can of course be easily denied in those points which oppose the adoption of this law. I would like to point out once again here that the law is very precise and that it regulates a number of details, allows for the possibility of regulating by means of sub-legislative acts everything that has been discussed, registers and the like. In preparing such a law, it is vital that we look also at the history of medicine in larger countries. This is the only way to understand the very different approaches of different countries in Europe, for example, regarding medicine. It's the only right approach. It is only then that we will understand why it is in Slovenia, which has very large traditions, that it is not possible to do something that is partly based on medicine in other countries of Europe and, on the other hand, it was imperative to arrange certain things in its own way. The fundamental principle of this law was and is to ensure the safety of the health of the user of medical services, to protect the user from harm to health. And another fundamental principle, as well as the purpose of this law, is to regulate the situation on the market, the health services, make it possible for the transparency and the public of health service providers to ensure their quality and through supervision the safety of handling service users. I believe that these two basic law-makers have also been provided for by the law. The current situation in Slovenia in the field of medicine is really chaotic and in fact there is no order here, no rules. This finding was made ten years ago, even perhaps 15 years ago. However, at this time, in these fifteen years, no one was able to talk to the healers on the one hand and doctors on the other and prepare the law that is currently before us and which somehow takes into account all these different interests of individual groups. Such a law will never be able to be written on the skin of just one or the other; it is always a compromise. And this marriage before you is also a compromise. Obviously, in the law doctors are not allowed to work in the field of medicine, of course, this is not found anywhere in this law, not at any point, not at any point. And it really isn't, it doesn't limit them. It limits them in the area where they could be caused by a doctor’s action to make a mistake at work. But the doctor can do his job, and I made that clear in an interview for the evening, and he's also using some kind of medical method if he thinks it's useful. But to talk about the fact that doctors are prohibited by this law from using medical methods, it will be necessary to quote the article in which it is written; if possible, of course, it will be good. It is true, however, that the Health Act continues to talk about the fact that a doctor should not deal with medicinal medicine in terms of gainful activity. And that's what the second law says, not that. This marriage doesn't talk about it. Talking about any underestimating relationship between official medicine and healers is also attracted to hair. There's no way this is about underestimation. But it is that medicine - and we know well if you look at what the word "medicine" means and what it is as an activity, you will see that it says that it is a scientifically proven activity that deals with the treatment of people. This cannot, of course, be said for medicine, because it is not a scientific method, not enough for the basic conditions of the scientific method and such use for treatment as well. We fully comply with all the directives of the Council of Europe, because in fact we also very much agree with these directives, including this law, because we allow any medical method that is scientifically proven to be official medicine. And that's what happened in the past. That's, say, acupuncture. Acupuncture is a knowledge that, as a traditional knowledge from China transferred to other countries around the world and today, in fact, in most countries has also been recognised as an official medical method. Any other treatment method may become part of official medicine if it is scientifically proven. Anything else that individuals talk about and tell each other about can’t possibly mean medicine that will be recognised as a scientific method. In this discussion today, even concepts that do not belong to medicine were mixed. This is psychotherapy, and we would not be talking about psychotherapy now, because this is a special knowledge, both of which are representatives, that is Mrs Orazem and also Mr Germić spoke about it. In any case, psychotherapy is a method used in health care and not in medicine and does not belong in this area. Although this term was not called psychotherapy, the procedures mentioned here are in the field of psychotherapy. The law restricts or deprives the doctor and even the patients, here at no point. It does not deprive doctors or patients of their freedom at any point. The doctor can quietly decide on the medicine, only, under the second law, he will probably have to leave work in the official medicine for profit. There's no limit to patients. There's no limit to patients. The patient may, this law, be decided either by a doctor or by a doctor. From my practice, I tell you that I had patients - I told you this once before - that I had patients who came to see me in the infirmary, and when they examined me, I also allowed them if they wanted to, if they had expressed this desire to go to the doctor, just without any problems. But I told them, but the condition is that I know about it, the condition is that you use these methods to make official medicine healthy and to tell me what methods you're being treated there. So, in fact, there was no problem in that case, and I think it's right that it is. It is correct that in this case patients may use this other method, but the doctor cannot, at least in my opinion, use in one infirmary at the same time, for profit purposes, official medicine methods and medical methods. Because there is no alternative medicine for me. Medicine is one and there can be no alternative medicine. All that belongs to medicine, of course, belongs to medicine. Link, you were talking about how this law prevents the link between medicine and official medicine. Of course it doesn't. It doesn't exactly make it possible in any way. On the contrary, I think it offers great opportunities for participation in the future, on the basis of provisions that even speak of the fact that medicine is clearly recognised, since the law is intended to do so. There's practically no such thing without the law so far. What is now happening in the field of medicine is becoming more or less, at least half-illegal, not black, but perhaps gray. As far as the medical room itself is concerned, we would not be losing words about it, since we have talked about it much here and I think it is necessary to do so. It is in no way that the Ministry of Health excludes it from the control of this Medical Chamber: the Ministry of Health controls it and also gives it the guidance and guidance needed to do so, and it limits it in its work in full at some points, so it is also the Ministry's funding for licensing, in my opinion, even necessary, and I think that this is such a small amount that it is difficult to lose words about it at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you very much. A message from the Flower of Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I have been mentioned, however, I will make some use of what my colleague Bručan has also replicated or polished in some way with some statements. I don't think today really should have been the impression that working with healers or those dealing with complementary and alternative medicine was ideal. It is true that a group has been formed, 13 variants of this law have been prepared, but unfortunately, there has come to Parliament or our procedure a variant that has not been harmonised, and this has been made public enough by the doctors. Here's an article that says, "Healthers agree against. It's a long-awaited drug law that's coming into first reading today. Members will be presented with a 13th version of the joint effort, which, of course, was not harmonised, so the healers predict that the law is completely rejected and departing into strict illegality." These were their statements, they said this at press conferences, and today you are convincing us that you have worked perfectly and well with them. They walked through our parliamentary groups and said completely different things, but not one group, I can list them immediately to you at least five who confirmed it. Second. Doctors are not prohibited from carrying out this duty. We've talked a lot about this in the previous reading, that's true, this marriage doesn't. But there's another law out there on health care. [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] But, listen, I don't know which law will be in one or the other, but one law will apply and in one it is explicitly proposed to prohibit doctors from doing alternative medicine, while you said as a then minister that you would commit yourself to not doing this in another marriage, now the minister is no longer, we have also talked about this with some who are preparing other legislation, and also from the minister of that guarantee we have not gotten that it will be true. [[..]] But such a law is in practice and can all, it is published on the website, unfortunately it writes. Second or third, you say that medicine is a scientifically proven activity, but complementary and alternative medicine is not. I agree with this in part, but I have told you that you are quite complementary and alternative medicine wants its methods to be explored and studies carried out, and you have completely rejected them. Sure, you can. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u136	The message of the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, three minutes is a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u137	I'm only dealing with it, but most of all, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, another [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u139	Wait a minute. I don't think it's been three minutes. Yeah, yeah, thanks. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u140	The next one to the replica was Mr Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, first of all, I would ask my fellow Member, Dr Bručan, if I could, I had read my text again, never mentioned psychotherapy, and it would be good to tell me exactly which statement in my text in the presentation of the Group concerned his professional justification for not knowing. Another time. I would like to say that we have never discussed that the Health Act speaks about the continuation of this Act, that we are totally separating complementary alternative medicine from official medicine and someone who is a doctor who will not be able to carry out any other medical methods. It is not a law on health care, Mr Minister, you have been preparing laws, I think you have been preparing texts, including the law on medical care, and of course this also speaks of how professionally these proposals are prepared. If you do not know what was written in one marriage, what the second law says, then, of course, the criticism that we in the opposition refer to the poor quality of laws is justified. And if now, as a former minister, you're saying that these definitions are written in one marriage, and we know that other laws define them, then you're talking about yourself in particular. But you provoked me to this replica yourself, given that you were talking about me quoting in the presentation of a point of view that I never said. Of course, we have always read this law one simple fact that the applicant has written in the articles of the medical method and the medical systems in such a way that no one was aware of what this means. And that in these articles the law received additions. You cannot deny this because these articles have been amended and the responsibility which was first imposed on the Medical Chamber by the Applicant has been transferred to the Ministry by the applicant and then our reasoned comments have been transferred to the Ministry. Of course, Mr Bručan, everything is so beautiful and right, they say the problems the Ministry has now when preparing the rules. We have pointed out that the problem will be how we define medical methods and medical systems. And I have one draft in the stage of production, in the stage of the creation of a regulation as a sub-legislative act to define it, and this regulation introduces interesting: within the framework of medical methods are defined among the following: [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u142	My friend Ljubo Germič, you've run out of time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u143	medicinal diagnostic methods. [[...]] When we warned, but that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u145	Yes or no, you were vehemently against, but now in the Rules [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u146	Comrade Germich, I must follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much. As was my last sentence, I have to stick to the rules of procedure and there is no replica to the replica. You will be able to apply in the context of the debate on individual amendments. However, we continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The following should be spoken by colleague Stanislav Brenčič. [[He's not here.]] He's been followed by a colleague of mags. Franz Gniedarsich. He's gone, and I'm giving mag a word. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Many words were spoken about this medical law. Either it restricts medicine or it encourages it or it promotes official medicine, the conventional medicine is over it, whether it's some kind of pastor or not. When we look at the genetics of this medicine and the genetics of this classical medicine, we see that they are both of the same origin, but at the time of development they were separated, where official medicine used more and more scientific methods, more and more verifiable methods, and the alternative maintained integrity, let's say more positive in this sense, and in a negative sense because it did not use these scientific methods. It follows from this: if we want to have a good system, the good health of this nation and of the citizens, it is good to take into account and give opportunities to both branches. When people listen to us like this, it's hard to imagine who's right and who's wrong. When we talk about alternative medicine, complementary medicine, medicine, medicine always asks the question: Do we give him too much parenthood, do we overly restrict him with vocational education, with technical requirements and so on, that he cannot offer what he can offer and that we limit his development? Is that it? Or are we putting too much of it down, without any technical restrictions or other restrictions, to prevent possible deaths, charlatanism, and all that belongs to it? That's actually the whole point. Do we want to limit this too much in Slovenia or are we relaxing too much? They would probably take a good step if the text of this law, at least the key things, were introduced into an integral health - care law, the Medical Service Act, or the like, so that external circumstances could be resolved for this conflict, which is in charge of someone and who is subordinate to the law. This would likely remove or prevent these ongoing disputes from happening to us. Time will show how open this society is to competence, to globalisation, to absorb knowledge not only from our logs, but from the whole world to the treatment system. That's on us. And Slovenian society has often found itself in this position to stand up for trenches and prevent good influences, knowledge, experience from other systems, from other cultures from other branches. That's what we're talking about. On the principle of well-intention, benevolence would have opened the system much more in order to supplement medicine, so that medicine could be applied as much as possible to get wings. On the other hand, we need to be aware that we can also descend here into danger of potential victims. Because among healers, I am firmly convinced that 95% of those who think and know perfectly well, although they may not have secondary education, medical education or medical techniques, or even have no education, are good. But allow me, on behalf of those 5% charlatans and everyone else, we need to set some standard that also makes it difficult for those honest people. And this is actually a tricky thing in every society, how to set this limit high. If we are required to treat animals, pets, so much and so much knowledge, then I firmly believe that we probably need more to treat a person. And it's not enough that I took a medical course or acupuncture or anything like that. Not only do I know how to implement this method, I also need to know when I can implement it, what's wrong with this person, I need to know about her medical condition. I need to know how to read a diagnosis or a medical history. And that's why these requests are made. And that's the way it is. I'd like to emphasize this further. Let's not impose too much control on the chambers. Control mechanisms, regulation, must be implemented by the State. In particular, the Chamber should carry out education, development of certain professions, methods, techniques, but control should remain in state hands. I am also not excited about any mandatory membership in the Chambers, because this has proved in Slovenian reality that these are monopolies that affect only the higher cost of services and have no other effects. We should be careful when prescribing that there must be chambers. Let the Chambers be built automatically, let the state even make sure they don't become a chamber of monopolies and cartels. Allow me, the prices now growing in the food industry and so on are mainly due to cartel arrangements. And the task of the state is to break this down, not even to promote such arrangements on behalf of some national interest. I, in principle, support this law. It's a kind of thing that you'd otherwise design, but it's the first step that won't kill cures, like the fall salt. I'm sure you don't. But in time, we'll have to see what happened. Time will show whether we have set up these contours for the development of medicine and that medicine will become an integral part of it. No pastor, no subordinates, but those who can contribute added value, added quality of life to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. It's a waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister and other co-workers! I'll probably tell you another time in a very short time that I'm one of those people who trust in school medicine, but I have to say that it's probably not the best way, because there's a lot of doubt if everything's always the best. But this is my free choice, and on behalf of free choice, I would like to express my critical attitude towards the marriage that we have before us. We often hear how we need to follow Europe's example, take its direction and direction. I think this is a law that does not follow all these European guidelines. More than once, it has been said today that the timing of law-making with various proposed versions has been perceived, debt and that a better version of the proposed law has also been prepared. Among other things, I am referring to the one that was prepared according to the German model and did not provide for a chamber. But at the time of the first time, and the second time, the law was accompanied in public by great disapproval. It may be argued that there are different groups in the back, but I don't think we should be so negatively in the mood for those positions expressed by the interested and medical public, I'm going to say that no one will be sensitive because of any expression. And here I think these comments have been taken too little into account. If I go to see, the updated proposal for a law has in fact only changed the few articles in which there is talk about a chamber. At the general hearing, I pointed out that the membership in the Chamber is not defined anywhere as compulsory membership, but that if we examine the consequences or activity of the Chamber, it is clear that membership is mandatory if a person wants to carry out a medical activity. And that's what's not good about the fact that we've arranged the chamber system, at least recently, according to the system of selection and volunteering. Here we are reintroducing a chamber which is compulsory, which many think will win over, I would say, public good or public good, so that caution is especially needed in relation to the Chamber, especially because the article that discusses the competences of the Chamber also speaks of oversight. It is true that it protects the interests and rights of the medics, indeed, that it encourages cooperation between the members of the Chamber, that I do not yet know what other task is coming than in point 15 but also has a supervisory function in the fifth indent. Someone may object that this control is only related to education, but that education and vocational training is one of the fundamentals that speaks in the same line of competence checks. So, control over the activity of the Chamber and its members has a very broad competence, however, so that here the function of the Ministry of Health is, in my opinion, placed in another plan. The second issue that could be discussed is also the rules of law. The question is whether it is good that some things are regulated only at the level of sub-legislative rules. Underlaws are usually not synchronized with laws and, if we are already in the process of regulating an area, it is likely that it will take quite some time for the law to be followed by appropriate sub-laws. I don't know if it's possible to agree to support this law from the point of view that we haven't had any medical activities so far, and if we haven't had them set up so far, it's better that it's something than nothing. I wouldn't just talk about charlatanism and cuddlers and other abuses. It could then also be asked in the context of official medicine whether doctors always do what is necessary and what is expected of them and whether their advice and functioning are always beyond the interests of the various, in particular pharmaceutical, lobbyists. I must say, I am actually disappointed at the third reading of this law. I expected you to be a cure, but last time we talked a lot about this term, and official medicine, but it got a little bit closer and you were a little less competitive, or maybe it should be a good thing that sometimes doctors were burned, but now at least they'll be given the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you, too. But to my word, I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you again very much for your word. When I listen to this debate today, I get the feeling that some debaters have not even read the law, made some impressions from newspapers or made some other impressions. There have been so many untruths and deceptions that anyone who follows us and is interested in this matter would suggest that he reads the law, and he would be able to assess for himself that this is the case. We have heard today that the funding of the Chamber is arranged in a way that will be financed by the State. This is simply not true, the State will co-finance the Chamber only in the part where it will have public authority to do so in the issue of licences and certain controls. Otherwise, the Chamber is financed by membership and it is necessary to emphasise here that membership is determined by certain weightings and also by the prescribed minimum income quota, which also exempts potential doctors who will achieve low incomes. It means that there will be no purpose for the chamber to make any kind of use of membership. We have heard that the separation of official and alternative medicine in this law is explicitly stated. That's also the wrong argument. Even more. In this law, it is the job of an official medical doctor to give a free opinion or position if a patient asks for a method carried out by doctors. This means that progress has also been made in this direction. It is then stated that there are no defined conditions for obtaining a licence in the law. That's not true, either. And that many corruptions, nepotism and customerism, should be possible in the future under this law. Article 35 of this Act clearly defines the criteria on which a licence can be obtained. And here is the whole thing, I can say, correct and also transparent. Again, some have come to realize that there is no control, that the ministry here is moving away, that control will be left to itself. It's also a delusion. The Ministry of Justice, indeed, authorises a chamber in which areas of professional supervision are to be exercised, but the programme of this supervision must always be prepared in agreement with the Ministry. It means that the Ministry plays a key and also supervisory role in the implementation of these controls. We have also heard today that there is no definition in the law of alternative medicine or what these methods are. I am sure that there is no Slovenian, nor any other, who would know or manage to list all the methods that are in use in Slovenia. We have an example of someone selling from the clay of a pyramid as a radiation prevention and it markets it there as well as medical methods. We have someone with a torch who detects some kind of radiation, and that's what he markets. And there are thousands of such methods. The Chamber will be the one to set up some frameworks where individual healers or those methods can also be classified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much. But to my word I call on the Member of the Holy Spirit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u155	Nice greetings to everyone in the hall, especially the ministers with the coworkers! I must say that I am glad that we have this law in our third reading today, that it has come to this point, that this area of medicine is also legally framed, which has not been done so far. That this is necessary both by physicians and even more by users or patients, I must say that I agree with this, that it is right to arrange this, but that every time we adopt a law, when we set one framework and limit, we will not satisfy everything, but it is also perfectly clear. And here I must say that I very much believe Mr Bručan that this law is also the achievement of coordination, it is clear that it is possible at this moment, which could be achieved at this time. I think it is right that responsibility in the field of medicine should also be defined for the benefit of those who use it, and in particular because of the fact that those healers who I am convinced are indeed exceptions, which are doing harm to the medicine itself, will otherwise be subject to sanctions. The opposition and the position not to come together is perfectly clear. I was thinking if we had what you're proposing in the law, I'm afraid you'd be defending exactly the opposite today and proposing what we're offering you with the law. For example, as far as the chamber is concerned and the tasks of the chamber are concerned, I am quite sure that this is the case. So if we leave the law to the chamber, in my opinion we have done a very good thing, the policy is retreating somewhere, we leave the profession to decide for itself, and I am sure that if it were the other way around, we would be hearing the exact opposite of what we had to hear from you today. Why the state, why the ministry, why politics doesn't retire. So much for the study room. Health care that this is an activity, that these are companies and so on. I think that, given the situation we have in Slovenia, it is not realistic to expect that, in addition to official medicine, which according to insurance is paid mostly from health insurance, another large branch would also be paid out of insurance. I do not think that Slovenia is capable of doing this and that these healers remain also an economic company, which is what they do for money, directly from subscribers, is said by users. I don't see anything wrong here. Finally, I wanted to say one more thing, to confirm what colleague Bajc started in the presentation. I totally agree with him. There'd be a lot less work to do. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] physicians and much less work would also have had physicians listen to each other a little more and if doctors and physicians also had a little more time to listen to their patients. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much. It's probably the same for politics, isn't it?Oh, my God! But to the word I invite the messenger, the Cveto Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u157	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows, Fellows and Madam Minister and Minister's Team. Very briefly. When we monitored the formation of this law from the first to the last stage, it is said, until today, it has been promised how things will change for the better, how the amendments will work out, how all the comments will be taken into account, and I think that as far as this is concerned, of course, you are the man of the word. Even today, you can promise the same that everything will change, that everything will be better and that it will be different, and in particular that all comments will be taken into account. I just don't know when. In the Liberal Democracy, of course, we believe in principle that every law must be written in such a way that the matter is simple enough, clear enough - it is clear, unanimous, understandable that anyone who is affected by the welfare and weakness of any law can understand it. In this law we have also relied on this, as probably many groups of doctors, to regulate complementary and alternative medicine rather than suppress it. After this proposal, which is now before us, which is before the third reading, we find again that this is one of those laws that came from the Ministry of Health, which will be very difficult to achieve or will bring back such consequences that it does not count on itself. A lot of things have been said before, so I wouldn't say it again, but I'd still touch the study room. This country, as well as this government, has decided not, in principle, to accede to the mandatory membership of the Chamber and even to terminate them in some way. But here we have the opposite phenomenon. A chamber is being established, which is supposed to be a housing association, so it's supposed to come from a base, from the interests of those who want it, not from the interests of the state. In some ways, however, the state is part of its obligations, but health is of such value and value that it is not enough to leave the market and collective decisions. Here I very deeply agree with Mr Petty Officer and the country should, however, keep very clear filters here, very clear strength, very clear decisions. That, of course, it will not be the same as it was for good purposes as this ministry had all along, something has been born again. And let's say it's about beds, let's say it's about public calls, where, of course, there's always been a lot of good intentions, but in the end, it's all messed up. And to remain true to myself, that is, "the ceterum censeo legem nicotine tabacum essay I delete". Also, the law you have adopted in health care has caused people to be sick, to be cold, to increase the number of respiratory diseases in recent years, as such a law has been passed on the restriction of tobacco products, which did not mean five miles away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the apostle Gezo Juban. [[He's not here.]] The word has been given by Ambassador Gez Juban, will you speak? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, for registering me at the door in time. In this matter of law, there was so much talk that I don’t know if it makes any sense to speak out in broad terms, but maybe it has a little bit of a strange situation. In fact, the law advocates whether a fellow Member of Parliament, Dr. Bručan, must defend, while Madam Minister, it is understandable that much of this law does not know or do not know. And now we are talking more about each other's Members. Nevertheless, I found it interesting because it was obvious that the opposition did not criticize the law simply because I would almost fully agree with a fellow Member of the coalition with the Magi. To the petty ones who actually spoke as we speak on this page. We're talking about that we don't agree that we don't support the law because it can't be the law that says it, but now you have the law, you have the medicine room there, and the chamber has to handle things within itself, and as it will, now you have it, you have the doctors, and we as a country have nothing. I think that's exactly what the mag said. Slightly, when he said that, nevertheless, there must be a state system, the ministry, the government and so on, with qualified people, which I would like to stress, especially with qualified people, because I am the one on the one hand, and I will finally say why, who realizes that medicine must have a place in the Slovenian health area. And on the other hand, I fully trust official health care, qualified people who have been trained for many years and who would still be through the Ministry and so on, who would also be watching medicine. And this is what we are telling you now, not only by the opposition, but also by the coalition, so that the matter should be established and supervised. These stories, as if we were supporting charlatanism or pushing itself into some kind of charlatanism all the time, we had the opportunity to see quite a few examples of stories unfolding in a way that is not good. But here, when a fellow Member spoke of charlatanism, I think we're all leaning on it, I think the matter comes from even Prekmurje, where newspapers have published a story that healers have died. But people die every day in different ways and also healers, those who are good. I don't think you can judge who's good and who's not. But perhaps you are some of the health workers who can judge much better than we do. That we must not throw everything into one basket and give them the place that belongs to them. I don't know if time allows me to just say experience, two that might be a little weird. In two cases, when the healers warned me, watch out for that, and that's [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , in two cases at Bled in the Diagnostic Center and UKC found that the warning was appropriate, not entirely [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The last among the reported debaters is colleague Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Already in the introduction, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have put forward a position that I agree with myself. To avoid misunderstandings, the Minister has now been assessed that she does not know this law, and perhaps the Rules of Procedure are the ones that sometimes make it impossible for anyone to say and engage in the debate when he wants to. And the Minister did not have the opportunity to respond to our concerns during the debate, to our dilemmas. Now, after concluding on behalf of the proposer, he has the opportunity to tell us what he thinks, and I am sure that the Minister will take this opportunity. Sometimes our grades can be critical, premature, and out of place. What bothers me in this law is that we are strongly separating on the one hand official medicine and on the other hand alternative medicine. It also bothers me that the proponents or proponents of change now want to point to those who oppose this law, regulation and concept, which is enshrined in this law, such as those who advocate lubrication, charlatanism and somehow blind our eyes to the danger that users of these services face when they decide to try alternative medicine with complementary treatment methods. Of course, that's not nearly true. We want these users to be familiar with services, we want these users to know these services and to make their own decisions about these services. These are not compulsory services, these are options and we claim that patients translated into the field of medicine - users of services are needed to enable the achievements of official medicine to be upgraded with alternative, complementary treatment methods. And when we're talking about the market here, it's probably necessary to say that in certain segments, official medicine is already on the market or we can call it that. When we talk about official medicine, we run into people very quickly who say, "You know, I've been to the doctor and this procedure will take a very long time, and I don't know when I'm going to be on my way, but if I'm going to the self-paying infirmary," so on the market, "the service is accessible." But on the market, the service, the specific investigations, probably the opinions of the individual doctor, is available to those who have the money to do so. These are market legalitys. Those who do not have or have difficulty spending a month and are promised insurance services will, of course, draw short if I can use this term. And when we talk about the market, we can get to the dentist very quickly. A few contributions were made in the newspaper last week and there was a lot of talk about who can get new teeth in Slovenia. If you wait your turn, you'll get them, but it's a long line. Another example is that you can’t even sign in because you don’t come and you don’t have a chance to choose your dentist. So this one's gonna get teeth a little later after the one that's already in line. But if you have money, you get teeth very quickly. So we put in place market mechanisms, market principles also in health care. Whoever has the money will have the teeth when he wants, the one who doesn't have the money. Mr. Tanko, do you have a problem with your teeth or your tongue? [[...]] [[Advertising in the background]] Well, since you are speaking, I was interested because you have comments and as the leader of the Group of Members we should respect the Rules of Procedure and we are already used to it. [[...]] [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] Dimitriy Kovačič, and you are second in line, because there is something about you, so there is no problem with it, we know these stories. The market and market legality are also being introduced in the field of health. We want to succeed in some way with the law, which is likely to be adopted. Mr Koren spoke about the idea that if our concept were proposed, the current coalition would advocate the concept that is now enshrined in this law. True, we would probably differ in terms of exactly the way we are today, and the difference would be in the text voted. A text in which our concept would be confirmed today, if the coalition were different, would be better than it will be today. This is what we believe in the opposition, and you have a separate opinion here, and it is the same, so we have different governments and different coalitions. The law proposed in the text, as proposed today, cannot be personally supported, because it is not really a matter of formal medicine, which in any case would still be the only right official medicine, would not be built up by alternative methods and would allow people to somehow pass this gap between official and alternative medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u162	Thank you very much. But I would like to make a statement to the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Apparently, it's a finding out how many people know and how many don't know, it's already folklore in here. Now that's what I find when I'm sitting here a few times. Personally, however, I never want to underestimate anyone, and my lifestyle is that people, above all, respect each other first. And if we respected each other, there probably wouldn't be any more well-intentioned here either. However, because of my responsibility to citizens and citizens, I do not allow myself to go further than we are discussing, because, in fact, the long-term consequences that we all want to be positive for all citizens and citizens are being decided in here. And because it is a cure that we first put in the legislative framework, it means that it is an extremely difficult process, because there are so many different opinions and so many different interests that it is very difficult to please everyone at first and it is very difficult to have a separator, what is very right and what is very wrong. And the fact is that today we need to talk about compromise, about decision. A decision which, however, will take an important step in the medical profession, because it will be enacted to some extent. From here on out, it is also the legislation that is allowed to be developed. Legislation is developing in the same way as the whole world is developing. Although Roman law has been in force since 2000 years ago, the foundations are valid. And I believe that the foundations we establish are extremely important as they are, but we will build them up. It is impossible today to say that there is only one truth in the world that will never be completed, but will not turn to its head. When we say that we are all users, I expected this Medical Act to be of greater interest, because yes, however, there is such an important law that decides on what we will get tomorrow as potential patients, as well as potential patients. And when a person comes into this trouble of being really sick, he is looking for solutions. And, of course, he's looking for them in classical medicine, looking for them in alternatives, looking for them anywhere, in spirituality, and where they find their way. It is therefore right and responsible to set up a framework and in this context, which is certainly also questionable, whether the Ministry of Health or the Chamber, if it were to be set up as or/or, but not "or", the Ministry of Health has and will have control. But here's the specialty called medicine, the one that unites in Medicine. [[?-medical]] The chamber. And if we are still talking about the costs to be incurred here, these costs are estimated at 100,000 euros. I'm talking, graded. Now we're going to look at what kind of investments we're talking about and what kind of costs we're talking about elsewhere. It is a minimum framework, really a minimum framework, to try to put the matter into new frameworks or to put it where it has never been before. It is therefore right that we understand that the Health Insurance Office pays about €2 billion annually, €2 billion for individual services. And today we're talking about 100,000 euros that are supposed to be medical. [[?]] the chamber used to make matters take place in a regulatory manner. Of course, the open subject is eternal. For several years now we have witnessed the transformation of the Chamber of Commerce. It can always be that way and that way. But it's about development, but there's a group that needs to be set up somewhere to deal with it. And that, at the Ministry of Health, I assure you, there is no such capacity today to organise and set up a group to manage this wide area and ultimately to manage it unregulatedly. I think it is extremely important that in the future we also be able to talk about development, about research, about the scientific approach in the field of medicine. That it is certainly what those who practice medicine want and have the basis for doing so. This is the opportunity that is open to us, that we are running out of time to talk between the patient and the doctor, and that is often the reason why people are looking for other solutions. This is noted in the adoption of every law, including the consideration of the Patient Rights Act. It's a key human-to-human relationship. This is still crucial, so I think we can do something about it with our own example. Speaking of analysis, which analysis was done. In the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, you have certain analyses that speak to various proponents in favour. But the analysis of how European countries are acting in this area is, and interestingly, that Austria, which according to the Euro Health Consumer Index, is first of all, is Austria, which is not regulated at all. The city that Slovenia has reached after this index is true that it is extremely poor to hear. I read it yesterday evening, where Slovenia is, but I will take this European index as an opportunity to improve, because it says here what is actually possible to improve. How much we can take this 100% for real, but it always depends on people. We don't have a single representative on this committee. Here are the representatives of the countries that are very well assessed because there is also a subjective factor. Perhaps this is also the question that we are not sufficiently active in order to be a little more present in this area. So much for how we are internationally oriented. And how real is the law? Certainly, the law will also trigger a series of controversy, perhaps opening up a series of new open issues. But it is important that at least certain ones be placed where they may be that the user who will go to the doctor is protected at least so much that this healer must also take responsibility for it. If we talk on the one hand about how much responsibility doctors must take, and the law on patient rights will impose on patients, then it is essential that we balance this with doctors, and this is also highlighted in this law. In view of the fact that, for the first time in history in Slovenia, regulation of an area which is extremely difficult and by inspecting everything that the law will surely acquire on the upgrade, and that this is the development of the law that we all expect, I am giving the law support within the Ministry of Health and on my behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you, too. But I hear you're a supporter of the law. We have concluded our debate on the bill as a whole. However, we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 1.10 this year. So by procedure, we have two amendments to Article 6 and Article 38. I ask for a well-established application procedure in accordance with the available time, as far as it still belongs to any of the Members' groups. My friend Contic. No, I will open the debate to each article individually. We are moving first to the debate on Article 6 and the amendment of SD, LDS and unrelated Members. I'm asking you to sign up. There is no more time available within the framework of the Liberal Democracy Club, Comrade Juban, so I cannot give you my word. No one else wants to discuss this article and this amendment, so I conclude the debate. However, I will put to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the SD, LDS and the groups of unrelated Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After this substantive discussion of the bill's proposer, I can say that we will not solve a credible health policy in Slovenia with the amendment to Article 38 of this Act. On this occasion, I also express my concern about the results we heard yesterday about the decline in the quality of health services in Slovenia. I don't care that much about who the commission is. If we didn't have it this year, we probably didn't have it last year, and the result was much better than it was this year. So the data is worrying. By adopting this amendment to Article 38, they would in fact transfer the collection of data or register containing information on the operator to the Ministry, which would officially enter or delete the operator, into the register. With this amendment to this article, we would therefore like to report in particular that, according to our assessment, the Ministry is the right address for the tasks it carries to the Chamber by this law. We're still assessing that there's no need for a chamber. And speaking of costs, for a lot less costs, we could do it within the Ministry. If the Chamber provides the staff, of course, the Ministry could also provide it. So that ministry that's going to oversee the chamber. So, this could be done by the Ministry. We are setting up too many rooms in Slovenia. We introduce or maintain mandatory membership somewhere, and we delete mandatory membership elsewhere. And I think that the health clinics and now the medical clinics that they will have, and one already has, too many public powers. Some of this could certainly be carried out by the Ministry. And with this amendment, they would do exactly what the data, that is, those mentioned in the law, would collect and deal with them in accordance with the law of the Ministry of Health and not in the Medical Chamber. I think that the proposal is worth reconsidering and that the third is still being considered at a suitable time when we could change it and then align the text of this law with the harmonisation amendments. Otherwise, I also agree with the proposaler, the first step that will be followed by many more steps, because I am sure that this law will need to be finalized, needs to be changed in the future. I just want to take into account the opinion of those who are also involved in this for the benefit of users. Not in the way that this was done in the preparation of this law when you proposed to invite the providers of these services, as you call them, but you have run so many laps that all of these operators have dropped out and finally we have received a law that we will most likely adopt today. So I propose that we support this amendment today, when it is time to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this in connection with Article 38? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 2 p.m. and 40 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2400 hours and 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u167	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the bill on international protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the law on international protection, first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been voted on. The draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the third item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law amending the law on income. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u168	Your Honors are here! As has already been said in this morning's debate, the law, which is substantively short, is, in my opinion, materially rich, a law that allows all taxpayers to be free to pay their own 0.5% of their income at the expense of their income. So we're giving him a chance to decide whether or not he's going through with this money, and secondly, we're giving him a free pass on the money he's giving him. In other words, the law in the context of its content bears that novel that will allow it to finance, on the one hand, with its share, that is 0.5%, both of the Škofia High School and of any other high school in our country. The law would allow or allow, if it were accepted, for every citizen or citizen to have the opportunity to co-finance in the framework of his or her obligation to the State, so this is not a new obligation, it is only a matter of distributing the existing obligation, including the health and all other educational institutions within our country. From this title, I appeal to the other Members and Members of the National Assembly to support the amendment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you. What desire to explain in his own name? I'm opening the application. Mr. Rezman, he's giving up. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Parents of all Slovenian primary and secondary schools meet at parental meetings these days. School funds are being formed. Parents of students and students attending public schools, public high school, cannot contribute money to the school fund and burden their income forecast for this contribution. Parents of those high schools and newly predicted primary schools, which are private in nature, can do so. The new law on income proposed by the Members of the SNS Group would eliminate this duality. Since we are supposed to finance 100% of the new private school, there is also no reason publicly to specifically stimulate and enable parents who have their children in private schools to receive these tax exemptions. That's why [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I propose to the Members and Members that they oppose the proposal for a decision of the home working body. [[...]] This law is suitable for further consideration and will ensure equality between parents, those who send children to public schools and those who send children to private primary schools or secondary schools. It's everything else, gentlemen. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] duality. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you. Any interest in the explanation of the voice? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm reopening the application. Please sign up, everyone who wants to sign up. Mr. Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I will speak for myself and I do not think that the position of the Group of Members will be significantly different. That's what this is all about. We have already said in the presentation that the range of approximately 3,500 beneficiaries is that of all possible areas where we think it is appropriate and that everyone can get their own interest. As for the relationship between private and public schools or schools, I would say the following. If we're going to pass a 100% funding bill, they're going to be evened out at the programme level. However, it is necessary to know that private schools have been built with private money, that they are supported by private money, and that there is still a great difference between private schools and schools in the visa of public schools and schools. Public high schools and schools are maintained either by the municipality or by the state. We will therefore oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I will oppose the decision of the parent working body, which has been negative and has supported the amendment of the Income Law. The explanation before me made it very clear, yes, there is a difference between private and private. Even though we listened to big words last week, no number of times government officials wanted to brainwash me on behalf of equality or equality in our country. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we are talking specifically about education, private schools, private schools have two financiers, public schools have one. And by giving full responsibility to local communities, the state means that the local communities are entirely dependent on the capacity of local communities to obtain funds for reconstruction or new construction. You know, local communities in our country are simply not capable today. The Ministry does not respond or does not want to co-finance the necessary reconstruction of individual schools. And that's the problem. Here we come to this inequality or inequality. Once again, private schools - double financier, public schools - single financier. And what makes this law, or the amendment of the law, is just to equalize that public schools or public institutions will be equal in terms of when we talk about 0.5% of the income of an individual or that I will have the opportunity to give 0.5% of my income to a public primary school, to a public kindergarten or to a public high school. That's all the law's talking about. And even by the Ministry's representative today, we have not heard an argument that would be clear and loudly strong that this law is not to be sneered.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Today, unfortunately, I have to repeat, we have not heard any valid argument why we should not give citizens and citizens of Slovenia the opportunity to decide, by their choice, and devote half a percent of their income to help develop, operate programmes, implement public school programmes. There is no need for their children to be in these public schools. They do not have to be public schools in their own congregation. There is no need for them to have anything to do with this, but, with the moment that a decision has been made in this National Assembly, that private schools and kindergartens will be 100% financed by the State - their programme - it is clear that the moment has come when citizens and citizens have to be given the opportunity to devote half a percent of their income to public schools. As a result of the fact that, from 2004 onwards, the proportion of gross domestic product intended for education and education fell from 4.8 to 4.4%, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , then means that the share of public schools in 2008, 2009 will also be significantly lower at the expense of this reduced share of public funding for education, education and education for public schools less at the expense of 100% private school funding. [[...]] New private schools are emerging, and we can expect a Catholic primary school and Catholic university to take place next school year. So we can clearly realize that we should give the opportunity to help public schools, because the country will simply not find them. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you. Since there is still an interest in explanation of vote, I am reopening my application. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself will, like the entire Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, oppose the decision of the home working body. How appropriate this law is for further consideration! The foundation of each legal state must be and is equality before the law. And today we are giving this bill the opportunity to give people 0.5% of our income to anyone, not to the elect. So, if I have the desire to devote the necessary money to a public school, I'm going to say to myself, Poesnica Elementary School, I can't do that if you vote as you predicted you will. But as long as someone thinks he's going to give the high school, he's going to give something, and he's going to be able to do it. If it's not discrimination, then tell me what it is! And someone said: public schools with public money. What about self-contribution? Either it was public money or it was private money when parents gave something to build a school somewhere, maybe a hospital, even a bell in the church -- you forgot that, but that's not public money, and that's private capital that went to public school. In some places, the crisis in public education or in public primary schools is such that parents have to finance the roof, so that children are not wet when learning Slovenian. Today, you are making it impossible for us who have a desire for our income to help these people with our money so that we cannot do so. Imagine what you're doing, your respectable colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'll keep going. At 3,400 and several other beneficiaries already mentioned on the basis of the Income Regulation for grants, I don't know, I really don't understand - who hurts if we extend them by 30 or 1,000? Who cares if we extend them to help out health homes financed by the municipality, to schools that - in order not to repeat the story of this week - must, of course, be absolutely financed by the municipality, to kindergartens that must be completely financed by the local community? We are all human beings, we are all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, I don't know, 3,000 and some of the other things listed in the Income Work Regulation - can we, if someone justifies me, colleagues and colleagues that it is wrong to give this part of the income, this 0.5%, to a healthcare home, to a school, to anyone else? I don't know, 100, 1,000 to put them in. What's wrong with that, huh? I really don't understand. If you want an analysis, you've already heard it anyway. And be true to others! In this world, not just Christian institutions, agricultural institutions and societies, but many other things. Look around you, because you're not in this room every day 24 hours a day and you don't see where you live.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Look, all you have to do is read the current law and see that nothing needs to change. Why there are so many beneficiaries, it's clear. Those who were organized signed up and placed themselves on the list. The best organised in Slovenia are firefighters from voluntary organisations. The following conditions have to be met, verified: in the past two years you must have public interest programmes, in the statute you must have defined activities in the public interest and for the next two years you must have a plan of action in the public interest. On the basis of such formalities and relevant documents, be included in the list - any entity in Slovenia. So there's no need to change the law. I checked this on the basis of the desire of a private institution that wanted to be involved in this and was a very correct response in the way I said it now. It is said that the existing law must be read, the conditions laid down in the existing law must be met [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and to be included on the list on the basic conditions met. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you. I will support the proposal of the law, which means I will not support the proposal of the decision of the parent working body. The Income Act was treated and received with this great right, which is given to those who pay the income so that they can direct 0.5% of the premium to where they want. I do not see any reason why I could not count public institutions for those who perform generally useful purposes, as they are implementing the programmes in public. Why couldn't 0.5% of your income spend on some general education library? Why can't I give it to a kindergarten? My colleague and colleagues have already said how these things are in the separation between private and public, where both have the same financier, they are public funds and the founder is indeed different. But such a singing right, the constitutional right to choose, is now suddenly asleep. I think it's an irresponsible distinction like this because if a donation is a donation - the essence of the donation is always that an individual decides on it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Who's he going to be after? [[...]] And the headmistress of the Aloyz Schuštar School of Sofia spoke about what you had in store for your school. Why can't we promise ourselves something out of donations in public schools, kindergartens, and institutions? I know cases where from public funds already. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Catholic kindergartens are funded. [[...]] I think we should support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you. Is it still an interest? Yes, I'm reopening my application for explanations of vote. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It would be no different, but because I see that there is a misunderstanding in connection with the law, and I fear that in the vast majority of ruling Members, this misunderstanding is present in an extremely large amount or measure, allow me to read in terms of explanations of vote, of course, that, on the basis of the existing 142nd Article, the article which I am trying to amend in the framework of the Income Act, says, "...to finance general useful purposes..." and then listed, for the first time, these are political parties, secondly representative bodies and thirdly at the request of the Ministry of Education and Sport, also private schools and private kindergartens. It is not true that anyone could apply to the Ministry of Finance’s invitation to tender, so that healthcare homes, educational organisations and educational institutions could apply for this invitation. And that's all I'm asking for as a proponent to allow every single individual to decide where to give his share of 0.5% of the income. And by doing so, allow me to highlight what I personally think is the worst. If you do not accept the law and if you confirm the decision of your parent's working body, it means that you will agree to a dictatorship that has been given so many times by the Government - I hope by mistake - that the public school is not in the public interest. If we want to show that public school is in the public interest, then let us also compare the eligibility of the public school with that of private schools. But the dictates of a private school or the field of primary education or secondary education are merely an example. The adoption of this law would also extend the said matter to health institutions, social institutions and all those institutions that have been working for several years in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Steb, you've already explained your voice! No, no, no. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present for 38, against 27. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda. Having regard to the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the scheme for the sale of national financial and real property for 2007 and 2008. We're moving on to decision-making. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u188	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. You have probably not been informed, but in the course of today's debate, a proposal was made to obtain an opinion on the Law and Law Service before deciding on the decision or a non-amendmental decision on the sale of real and financial property allows and is in line with the Public Finance Act. We all know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has announced, in accordance with the wish of the sales commission Telekom, a public tender, a public tender, because it says: "In accordance with the law, we sell 49% of Telekom's share according to the decree." The power vested in the Government in this National Assembly speaks of the fact that the country can only sell 30% of Telekom. In its opinion on the labour market, the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that, if the decree is not properly amended, unless it is clearly stated that the Government cannot propose a change in the property sales programme because the individual asset sales programme has changed or otherwise: first, it is necessary to change the chicken in order to obtain a different egg. We can't because the government invented a different egg than we gave them in the National Assembly and sell 49% and not 30%, we can't subsequently fix the decree in the National Assembly. The amendment was prepared, the amendment was not accepted. I myself assess that we need an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, that we, however, get clear here before deciding whether the unaltered decree is in line with the Public Finance Act at all. Therefore, it was proposed that, Mr President did not oppose this, we expected the Legal and Legislative Service to deliver an opinion here, allowing for the fifth paragraph of Article 66. So, I repeat the procedural proposal: The Legal and Legislative Service should state whether the decree, as it is now drafted, is in line with Slovenian legislation and the Public Finance Act. We believe that it is not because it was necessary to change the programme first and only then an individual programme for the sale of state property. However, I think that those who have followed the debate today are clear enough about what the problem is, and please, if you complete this procedural proposal in accordance with your prerogatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u189	Mr. Squeakl, the Legal and Legislative Service sees no need to further explain the matter. The point meets all the conditions for voting, but you can suggest that the vote on this item be put to one of the following meetings. Are you suggesting something like that? Here you are, but you've already spent time explaining, but you can tell us what you want quickly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u190	President, this is the first time I've heard the president of the National Assembly interpreting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u191	Are you suggesting? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u192	Can I finish? I'll make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u193	Say it without explanation. You've already given an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u194	I think there's a lot of reasons. The underlying reason is this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u195	Mr. Squeakle, second warning. Give me a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u196	The proposal is to move this to one of the following meetings to obtain an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service in the meantime [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u197	You heard the procedural proposal. I propose that the vote on this item be put to one of the next meetings. This proposal may be made by the Group of Members. Who wants to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm opening the application. Mr. Squeakl, you can sign up now if you're authorized by the head of the delegation. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think it's just fine because I'm up, I don't know why the brain trusts of the government coalition are laughing so cheerfully, all I want to say is that in the Slovenian National Party's Group we will support the procedural proposal of the respected Mr. Squeak, because we think it makes perfect sense. But I believe you don't find it pointless - not pointless - because you don't even know what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u199	Thank you. We are therefore moving to a vote on the procedural proposal to put the vote on the proposal under item 17 to one of the next meetings. We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the decree under point 17. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Please, Mr. Barovich, just sign up. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u200	Thank you. Look, there were exactly 12 Members of Parliament before, 5 experts in the Chamber when I spoke - good, if I repeat. The decree states that a building is being sold, specifically in mine, to a dear municipality owned by the Ministry of Justice. But at that time, the Ministry of Justice and I have made a completely different decision: specifically, personally with the Minister of Justice. And I don't know how, colleagues and colleagues, you're taking a decision that someone wrote to have no other part; and he wrote it and he doesn't stand and he doesn't have any arguments and things have changed in the middle of it. Well, hell, you know what I mean! Minister Lovro Sturm said, "OK, let's go to a different version, not the one written in this decree." We shook hands, we sat together, Mr. Marolt was with us. One case. The second is housing, four congregations, 70,000 people, four letters, a deal, everything's black and white - as if it wasn't! This decree was written nine and a half months ago because he was bored, and now we are adopting this decree contrary to the opinion of 70,000 people and contrary to the opinion of the Minister of Justice, who is your minister, a government minister who disagrees with it, but has chosen another option, but you insist on your way, you oppose your own minister because you do not know what anyone is doing. This decree, please, let me postpone it, let me close it now, and re-write it. Hell, a lot of smart things are gonna happen! Not sell everything, not sell everything! Not sell everything! Now you're gonna sell it all, and then what are you gonna do? Tomorrow you'll be mayors, or you'll be in a congregation or anywhere, and you'll say, "Why did I sell it, and now I need it!" Let's get some brains in your hands. Ladies and gentlemen, a little, a little! On the one hand, he wants to keep the mine a little bit longer, keep the power plant, and on the other hand, everything you sell them - how?Oh, my God! How are you gonna keep something you're gonna sell?Oh, my God! But you've got a little brains, a little bit, a little bit! Please! And not just sell it! This decree is the basis for sale. And when you sell it out, you'll care, you'll say, "Now we're not guilty because you voted sales." [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Against this decree, please! [[...]] Be smart! Do not sell out properties and movements of people. I have a position for 70,000 people that this is not right. Hit 'em, hit 'em, if you mean it. I'd like to know how you'll be doing next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u202	A respected commission to manage and supervise the sale of capital investment by the Republic of Slovenia in Telekom. This is the most powerful institution in the Republic of Slovenia. She published an advertisement for the sale of 49.13% of the share of all issued shares and writes in this ad: "In accordance with the individual government programme adopted on 12 July 2007, according to the Public Finance Act and other legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, she sells 49.13%." The National Assembly, the highest legislative body, empowered the Commission to sell 30%. An ad was published; 15 buyers and the National Assembly subsequently reported on this ad, a month later, three days after the buyers made non-binding offers, it revises the sales programme for state property. Wrong world. The Commission for the Management and Control of the Sale of Capital Investments and Ladies and Gentlemen, Draga Tukjat, Director of Capital Investment Ljubljana, Sergei Požar, Florian Potka are the strongest people in Slovenia. They know in advance how the National Assembly will decide! This is the wrong world. And the Legislative and Legal Service, of course, said that it was necessary to change the decree because the government adopted an individual programme on 12 July 2007 beyond the powers of the National Assembly - wrong. This is all we wanted to hear here today is that the Slovenian public is told what the ruling coalition supports. And so, of course, say that Mrs Matjaž Janša and some members of the Commission are the most powerful people in Slovenia to admit it - yes, let's end the National Assembly, abolish the Law on Public Finance and the Ordinance on the Sale of State Property! Let's sell everything, but on December 31st, 2000 of any year, we have to get together at 11.55 and say, "We sold 100% of the Triglav Insurance Company, 100% of the Mercator, 100% of that or that." This is the wrong world and if Members of the ruling coalition don't know that with this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You're doing yourself the biggest bear service, then I don't know where you are. [[...]] It is therefore necessary to oppose this decision because it is to correct the error of Minister of Economy, Minister Bajuk and Prime Minister of the Government. I think that a separate programme should be repealed and it should be found that it is an illegal act by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not to cover for gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I really ask you to reconsider before pressing the button on your voting device. I also come from the congregation of Trbovlje, which is a prominent congregation, as far as social issues are concerned, or from a congregation that has a very poor social picture. 42% of Slovenian citizens and citizens depend on social transfers in our country. I hope you know how much money social assistance is or how much money social security is, which is a little bit higher. But the fact that is important if you press the "yes" button is that people from the social bottom will lose their roof over their heads because they simply will not be able to play on your market logic. These are people who are hard to pay today, and allow me to speak in old Slovenian tolars, 20,000 tolars of rent because they are simply unemployed or dependent on social money. And if you sell out - and the decree on this talk - state, municipal social housing, then, hand to heart, these people, once again, I emphasize, will lose their roof over their heads. You know, this kind of unsocial behavior of the government or this kind of entrepreneurial logic just can't hold up. So once again, on behalf of those people who are therefore dependent on your vote, let's give ourselves time! Let's think again; I believe it's possible to find a smart solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's not a sale, it's a sale, in cases where we want to achieve certain benefits. In particular, I respond to the diversion and, in fact, to the lies and only to the partial guidance of what is involved in the sale of Telekom. The invitation to tender is optional, changes or valid - what is in the invitation to tender - it is conditional if what should be accepted today is accepted. And there are no other tricks or conjectures that a fellow Member persistently repeats because of his desire for the Demagogic and I do not know what effects he has alone in front of him. Telekom's sale is in line with the strategy. There is no sales in the way that sales were made in another government in the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. It is an international invitation to tender and this amendment, which we are implementing today, is conditioned by the validity of the part which is precisely defined in the invitation to tender. And the matter is completely transparent and fair and clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u208	There was a lot of laughter. Although laughter is a healthy thing, I think we have agreed to make fun of ourselves and it is not enough for us to make fun of us as a proposal for a proposal for a sales programme for the assets of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the Government. This program has two points. The second, which is indisputable - the sale of business premises in Brussels: it is well-founded, logical and can be supported. And first and foremost - a change in the stake in Telekom, which the state wants to sell, and this is justified by two arguments. Firstly, the harmonisation of the law on return on investments in Telekom, that is ok. but very late. The law has long begun to come true, and we would expect it to be done sooner. And another main reason which is disputed is that a decision on the scheme is being adapted to the individual act. The decree on the scheme for the sale of property is adopted by the National Assembly, is a general act and the programme is adopted by the Government and carried out or subordinated to the act. Not only this year, but it always warns us again and again the competent service, but regardless of the argument that this is legally unacceptable, most have not been able to accept their own amendment to remedy it. On the other hand, the fact that the Government can explain this if it wants not only indicates that the government representative at the studio on the same day at 17 could explain why he was selling the property. Take a look at the adoption today of the asset programme, the 2008 and 2009 proposal, where Telekom reappears and where the justification is correct. That is why, of course, I cannot vote for a legal non-systemic solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u209	Thank you. Because there is still an interest in explanations of vote, I am opening an application for explanations on my behalf. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's a little ironic, but it's for those of you who decide what you choose. Sales are urgent because we're in the last quarter. You have to sell as much as you can, which is what's left. It sells everything. You can also buy Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper we also put on the list, we have also sold the Shipyard, General sailing. As to what Mr Barovic was talking about - yes, why would the Government help the Red Congregations. But there's no church. We need to pressure people to suffer a little more than they already suffer, and that they will be more obedient than they are. That's probably the point. And I'd say that if you put on the list those properties that are of social importance, then take this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u212	It's an illegal and unauthorized sale. However, it is a matter of misleading the Slovenian public and the international public. Financial Times, 31.8.2007. You know what they say in Styrian -- "cows laugh at us." Because the government wrote down in the Financial Times to sell something they didn't get permission to sell. And you're going to ask why fifteen bidders? Because they obviously think they can buy very cheap ones. And it's a shame that we can't do so much power in the National Assembly, and we say to the Government: right when you do 16 November 2007, this is the current budget adoption plan, we're going to adopt a decree on the sale of state and real property for 2008, and you can sell Telekom for 100% from 1.1.2008. But not to do so in the way we are now presented. Minister Bajuk and Minister Vizjak do not know what they are doing, and you, Members of the ruling coalition, who would not allow you to do so in the municipal councils, are correcting the Minister's mistakes in the National Assembly. Ask yourself about your own responsibility to your fellow citizens and do not cover the mistakes of ministers. It was a mistake, but it'll sell if it wants to sell, three months later. And do not submit to a famous commission, which is unauthorized, because of the role of Minister Visiak and Minister Bajuk, sells something that cannot be sold. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u214	Dear Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows! I will not support this proposal in particular because I am convinced that the property of the State of Slovenia is so valuable that it must not go into action just before the end of the term of office. The second thing I object to is that the country has actually reached at least one part of what it is selling today, which is the building that Mr Barovic was talking about, in fact, on some strange path. In 2001, she attributed herself to two-thirds of the property that was formerly owned by the local community, and now she wants to sell it back to the apparently best bidder, but at the same time, of course, she is making a deal. This is very hazy business, and I do not think we should support such matters. As far as Telekom's concerned, we've heard that there are no other "fiddles" or how it was said. It doesn't have to be the other "fiddles," because that "fiddle" is just enough not to support this law!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u216	Thank you very much. To be very specific, colleagues and colleagues, see Annex 1. I will not start - there was already a large - Slovenian steel industry that was supposed to be sold to recapitalise Nova Ljubljanska banka, which is supposed to remain Slovenian, and according to the latest data is no longer Slovenian - I will get an answer from you, by the Ministry of Finance. You've received a question from the mission. I'm not going to talk about New KBM, I'm not going to talk about Telekom, I'm going to take the last page of Annex 1. Sales of seven subsidiaries RTH and Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik: Fortuna Trbovlje, Specter Trbovlje, Domex Trbovlje, Rudar Senovo, MP Trbovlje, Gradex d.o.o., Toplarna Hrastnik. And the description says how successful companies are, how nice they are, how good it is to have such companies. That's what the state sells! That's great! I mean, hello! Why, if they're great, great companies that do miracles, from technical findings, they own apartments and - blah, blah, blah. Of course, it's called "acceptance", "acceptance" and not privatisation. The gentlemen have agreed and will pick it up nicely and charge the people, "Lord, so far you've paid 20 grand tolars, and now you're going to pay 40." He'll say, "I can't." "Then go out or go to the congregation and have the congregation grant you a subsidy." The municipality will grant a subsidy of 3 billion, specifically the municipality of Trubov [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] She'll be left with water, sand, road--nothing, zero coma zero. [[...]] How will people continue to eat?Oh, my God! It's "acceptance," not privatisation! Although we have rightly warned - three municipalities, 70,000 people - the Ministry of the Economy, that until the clear fate of the Trbovlje Mine - Hrastnik cannot and cannot, in our opinion, sell the property that is owned by the state and created by knapsacks, oaks, trebles, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ............................................................................................................... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u217	Thank you. Any other interest in explanation? Yeah, I can see the hands. Check-in is on. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I will not be as emotional as colleague Bogdan Barovic, I would only aim at consciousness before the vote and less at political belonging. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the list of sales of state-owned assets in 2007 and 2008. I sincerely hope you have so much knowledge that at least the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given it to you to know where it is behind. If we start at the beginning, the Slovenian steel industry in connection with ownership in Novi Ljubljanska banka, ownership events in Novi Ljubljanska banka via Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, Drava power plants Maribor and purchase of other power plants in Eastern Europe - sorry, but this is only about corruption, not customerism, but once again, for corruption - you support it. If we look further, New Credit Bank Maribor. I'm very afraid that it won't be another year or two before the Slovenian capital builds up. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Cyprus! He's moving from Holland to Cyprus. And at least I hope the minister knows because I told him. I hope the Secretary of State has informed you of this. Future, future sale - how many more, twelve, eleven days till the show? Ten times 3% will go out, around New Credit Bank Maribor - you also sell this. I continue with Telekom Slovenije. We all know who's standing in the back - Minister of Economy, Dare Južina. Whoever we look at within these companies, I'm sorry, but this is a fraud that we have not yet witnessed in the Republic of Slovenia, not only in the past ten, twelve years. But it's sad what you're doing. And in each of these companies, as I have now listed to you three, the first three on the list, anyone who at least deals with the events on the securities market a little bit, [[...]] [[End warning sign]] He'll know what I'm talking about. It's just a shame! Be ashamed of anyone who supports this document without any behavior you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand that crocodiles have been crying those who, so far, have been unable to prepare any programme for the sale of state property and the withdrawal of the country from investment. This Government is the first to prepare a programme to withdraw the country from both market investment and non-market investment. It has therefore set up appropriate commissions and these commissions are implementing this programme. The fact is that we have, and you also have, the goal of speeding up the country's exit from the economy and thus finding active owners; owners who will be a better master, better managers than the state and its parastatal institutions. We've got a program in front of us. And I see absolutely no reason not to implement this programme, which has been published publicly, even after this programme. And in fact, in this place, I have to deny all those who speak of corruption talking about the theft of such and other assets. It goes according to procedure, it goes on the basis of public procurement, which has not been the case until now. All that was sold in the previous period, 95% of what was sold under hand and with an agreement. Remember Viator, remember Lek and all the other stuff. Not one of them went to the stock market, and not one of them went to the bidding. And this is the first time that this is the way these sales are going. As far as Telekom is concerned, the issue is quite transparent, the offer is optional, if we adopt this decision, the result can be maximised on the basis of the sales method envisaged by the expert group. If we do not accept this, we will wait three months and, as Trofenic said, we will accept one program a little later, only things are moving away.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u221	Thank you. Mrs. Pozonac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. Remember all the old proverbs, your ancestors also learned that a wise man learns from foreign mistakes, but the stupid ones neither from their own. Look at the Hungarians, they sold it all out and look where they are and where we are, who kept something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. So, I don't think I know everything, and I haven't heard it in the morning that I don't know what I'm doing, and of course, some people know everything they're doing. That's why I'm only gonna talk about what I heard in this room. Some of you today - some of you, not all of you, so there will be no mistake - some of you who are today the loudest against selling state-owned companies, have used every opportunity you have recently to criticize the government, why not withdraw from the economy, to adopt a plan, a plan to be in a coalition contract, but now not withdraw from the economy and because it is the owner, to place its members in the supervisory worlds. The country should sell quickly because it's a bad master. And businesses need to get real owners who are better managers. Even more, you requested a discussion to answer the Government's questions on the parliamentary issues that have been, on this debate, why the state is not withdrawing from the economy. Remember that. But, look at the fraction, today, when we have a concrete suggestion that something will happen, or if we leave this proposal, that something concrete will happen, that the country will really withdraw from the economy, as you yourself requested, and the government have accused the government of why it does not, and today there is a big problem. That is to say, we are very strong when we need to talk in general, but when we get into a specific situation, we are a little bit more concerned about nails. As for Telekom himself, those who have read well and who have listened to the Minister, the Prime Minister, to the answers to the questions were not at all an offer for reselling, but it was an option offer to establish interest, then negotiations would begin and only on the basis of what could happen - it could happen, but not necessarily - the sale of Telekom. Finally, we are also bound by the law on return to finance in the telecommunications network, which was provided by natural persons when they were essentially helping to build it themselves. It's also the law that binds us. So be constructive. Remember what we said a month ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u225	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I must say that in these explanations of vote, and even earlier in the debate on the decision itself, at least by the Group of Social Democrats, as well as by a number of others, there was a very clear and repeated fact: despite the fact that an amendment had been prepared to correct at least the appearance of this decision, in order to make it more legal, that the Law-Legal Service, prior to the examination of the decision on the working body, had warned that the decision was not lawful, that it should be harmonised, also suggested how it should be harmonised and how the coalition Members stubbornly opposed such corrections, today was heard from the coalition benches, as if the opposition were in principle opposed to the sale of state property. That's not true! The opposition, at least for the most part today, is opposed to the illegal proceedings and contempt of the National Assembly by deciding in advance how the National Assembly will decide, and therefore some among us will not support this decision in any way, because we do not want to participate in illegal decision-making, especially in the planned, systematic, repeated contempt, humiliation, and anything else we could say, Members of the National Assembly. And there's something else I need to say here. That, I will say, underestimation of Members and Members of the National Assembly does not just fly to the opposition. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I warn you, colleagues and colleagues from coalition parties, that this also means underestimating you. [[...]] Others have decided, instead of you, what we're going to do [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u228	Before long, we will all remember this, it was all ours or everything national, and experience shows us that such a system simply did not work. Remember how big companies failed: There, Metalna, Litostro, not to mention them. Today, when we talk about the need for the state to withdraw from business, we are listening to criticism, of course, that there is too much political influence in these companies, that it is a political hub for some political people, that the country is a bad host, that it is an obstacle to development and so on. But when we come up with a concrete proposal to actually get the country out of the economy in certain companies, then I don't know what the problem is. You're talking about a sale. If it is sold in a transparent manner through a public tender where everyone can run where it is transparent, it is not a sale, it is a search for a possibility to find the country, I would say, the most favourable option. As for Telekom, it is true that this National Assembly has adopted a slightly different program, but in the market where Telekom is sold, things change very quickly, and the country or government, as a good master, must look for the best options, the best chance of getting the biggest ransom. And that's what this government has done, and it's published a call for the best of interest, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Best potential buyers. [[...]] And if such a buyer is found, then the sales procedures will run from choice to contract. Only when the contract is signed will it be a sale. And I support such an approach, because this country really has to make the most of what can be gained through this state property. Because I really agree to only sell once. And such an approach, I don't think [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Illegal, but it's just that we're really looking for the most advantageous option. [[...]] That's why I'm going to support this program.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u230	Thank you. I will support the motion to amend the decree, but I must say that we are talking about everything but the content of the decree. What has been said so far by certain Members, we are talking about selling the changing stake of Telekom and the building. I think that colleague Trofenik made it quite clear, if then it was not clear to some, what it was about, I regret that, from the legal point of view of some - I have a different opinion, even the Legal and Legal Service could not convince me or so I would say, it could not convince me, because we did not reach a final conclusion in the final stage. We need to make that clear. And given that there was only an optional call, I don't know why there was so much bad will today and the dissatisfaction of the alarm in relation to the second share that was actually proposed by the Commission, where the Commission found that it could be more seized. Once again, an optional invitation. If we don't accept the change today, at least that's how I'm explaining Telekom's share we're not going to sell at all. And from this point of view, please kindly, in the final stage Parliament is the one who makes the decision. Not now that someone's making fun of us and similar words that flew here today. Today, we will now decide whether to sell Telekom's share in the amount [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 49%. [[...]] We will now vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. Farmers say, "Think twice before buying and three times before selling." I do not object to the withdrawal of the country from the economy, this is undoubtedly necessary, but not to withdraw at all costs. If today, as we talk about Telekom, we talk about Lek and its results and profits, and where these profits end, we would certainly not sell it. When reading the Journal on the website - today, for example, two interesting news: on the one hand, the country, the CAD and the SOD sold a share in the Ljubljana Milk Shops, and on the other hand news In the coming days, new incentives, this time meat and milk will strike. It is important to think hard about where the country is withdrawing, where there is no doubt that the strategic part should be retained, or, if we still want the country to be a good host, then if the business story of the Ljubljana dairy industry, which is the story of Slovenian agriculture, is to be reconsidered three times before each sale. I do not object to the sale of state property at all costs, but at this moment and this debate that we have heard and in explanation of vote, I doubt that before the ruling we support [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ‘ we will have to sleep again, think again, and decide what is absolutely necessary to sell, what is not. [[...]] And, of course, when you're selling something, you have to have what we buy in front of you. It's no problem to sell something if you buy something else, which brings a substantial added value to the country, but as long as we sell the vital interests, let's say, we have a strategic issue like Ljubljana's dairy, and on the other hand, we buy the patriots for it, and we seem to be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Make a bad deal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u233	Thank you. I still see the interest in the explanation of the vote and I am reopening the application and I would suggest that all those who wish to explain your vote sign up. Mr. Barovich, you're already Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The sales programme itself, or the most picturesque and fairest, was called by my fellow Member, Mr Barovic, "acceptance" I will not support. Someone was talking about judgment and making a decision today. You know how much time we have had for a group of Members to decide on such things - 5 minutes. Maybe it's for you because you're so much wiser or you think so much, enough to decide such things. For some, however, this is not enough, and more could be said about national property. But, for example, under point 13 of the Sales Programme, the future, the disability rehabilitation and employment company, is being sold without obligation to remain such a programme in this company, which will involve people with disabilities and because of the health of hard-working people. He sells himself, and we throw these cripples away, but wherever you throw them, I'm sorry. KRS, Rotov's Cable-Splitting System, which we know is one of the largest in Maribor with its surroundings, is probably sold at the expense of "farsky" T2 in order to gain even more control as far as it can prevail. If this isn't corruption, your respectable colleagues and colleagues from the government, then I don't know what another name is, unless you come up with another one. And if the MPs who put pressure on the keys knew the background, not only would they blindly believe their great leader, either in the sending group or in the government, they would probably be pushing differently if they had at least 3 to 4% of the right to think. Someone was talking about transparent calls. These are those calls when one is published abroad and the other is published at home. It's not transparent, it's a grave mistake for the minister to fly at the time. All these are the reasons why such "admission" simply cannot be supported in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u235	Thank you. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 29. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda - discusses the Regulations on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on consent to the Regulation on the conditions, criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the Regulation on the Conditions, Criteria and Procedure for the allocation of funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia of 22.8.2007." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - discusses the amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, as set out in the text of 13 April 2007. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[The vote was 6.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Medical Law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS and NP to Article 6. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS and NP to Article 38. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 26, for 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the issue of the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 2 adopted in the second reading on the parent working body, by which the definition of medicinal activity was amended, actually caused a discrepancy with Article 3, where this definition of medicinal activity should also be corrected. The amendment adopted to Article 6 at second reading also led to non-compliance with Article 35. The conditions necessary for carrying out medical activities have been changed and a harmonisation amendment is also needed here. The government is in agreement because there was an expected lack of coordination, has already drawn up proposals for harmonisation amendments and you are just getting them on the bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-02-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Briska, representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service. The amendment's just been split up. Do you want me to interrupt the session so you can get to know them? Yeah, then I'll give it to you. [[...]] Then I give the floor to Members and Members if anyone wants to discuss the harmonisation amendments after five minutes. I am opening an application for a discussion on the harmonisation amendments or just one harmonisation amendment. There's no sign-in. We therefore move to a vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 3, which reads: In the second indent, the words "and quality of life" are deleted. The harmonisation amendment, since they are related to Article 35, which reads as follows: In the first paragraph, the first paragraph shall be amended to read as follows: first, at least secondary education in the health course or at least secondary vocational education, and the health content test referred to in Article 6(1) of this Act shall be carried out. In point 1 of the second paragraph, the words ‘from first aid’ are deleted. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 42 votes against 18. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 18.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice day.
