ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Maria Pozsonec, Mr Roberto Battelli, mag. Milan M. Squeakle, mag. Anton Rop and Mr. Aloys Sok. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the first item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the Assembly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 19th item. Everyone here says hello! We are moving on to the agenda of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 16 March 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Group of Social Democrats proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a Spatial Planning Act, the third being considered. You received a motion to withdraw today with a letter. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are convinced that the proposal for a spatial planning law represents an important novelty in regulating some of the necessary relations in our country. It is important for the profession, it is important for the municipalities, it is important to end with regard to the powers which some newly give to decision-making at national level. We have proposed in our consideration of this law on the working body that only a public presentation of opinions be prepared on the law, which, not for the first time, has not been adopted. We also wanted the profession to speak on the content of the law through a public presentation of opinions. This opportunity, because our proposal was rejected, was not present. We are indeed, all together, probably surprised and immediately prior to the hearing in the National Assembly, I would like to state, from the important majority of societies and other institutions dealing with this issue, that they believe that the law is bad and requires an expert assessment. This was proposed by the Association of Urbanists and Spatial Planners of Slovenia, the Association of Landscape Architects of Slovenia, the Association of Geodets of Slovenia, the Urban Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy and the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering. I suppose that Minister Podobnik and the Ministry did not have a proper discussion with them, otherwise we would not have received such a proposal. In the Group of Members, this argument and the fact that we ourselves have had quite a few questions and concerns about the additions to this law seem sufficient to suggest that the law is not being considered at this meeting, and we expect and propose your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the government? Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The proposed decision to withdraw this item from this meeting of the National Assembly is not supported by the Government and expects the item to remain on the agenda. As Minister, I am thoroughly aware of the contents of this letter, which was transmitted a few days or a week ago by representatives of professional institutions. I would also like to mention as information that the applicants or drafters of this law have met several times with experts covering the area of landscape architecture, at least three times, that there have been more meetings with the Chamber of Architecture and Space as well as meetings with the Chamber of Engineers of Slovenia. So, all these professional meetings have been held. In order not to cite other arguments, I can say that some of the professional issues, the conceptual issues related to the content of the amendments to this law, were raised both in the context of the very long general debate we had here on the plenary and also in the light of a very long debate on the working body. And quite a few amendments are where some of the proposals of the professional associations have been supported by associations, even incorporated into the law itself now for the third treatment. It is true, however, that a number of conceptual questions have been raised since the beginning, but the concept of the law cannot be resolved by simply proposing how these associations propose to stop the process of adopting that law. That would be an absolutely wrong decision. Then all the questions that are also related to the national location plan for the third development axis and so on would all fall into the years 2010 and so on. And I have something to say in public that it is unusual that the arguments against this law are written in terms of the interests of Slovenian municipalities and both associations of Slovenian municipalities support the proposed solutions. At numerous meetings we worked with them, both at the Presidency level and at two meetings where representatives of all Slovenian municipalities were represented. I also participated in one and support of this law is also supported by both associations of Slovenian municipalities. So I propose that the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda is not supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening the application procedure. Mr Weber, please, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Spatial planning is certainly one of the most important facts that we are trying to implement in shaping the country's development. Finally, it was one of the very great achievements when we adopted the Law on the Regulation of Space and the Law on the Construction of Buildings, in fact as a twin, both difficult laws in the previous term, and we did not last adopt the Strategy for the Spatial Development of the Republic of Slovenia. Without making an expert analysis of the implementation of the adopted law on space regulation during this period, it is not possible, by the way, because the law has not even come so far as to live in practice in all its breadth, if I may say so, we are pursuing new spatial legislation. And the red thread of our warnings in this process is primarily that we will completely lose a uniform approach to planning in space. The municipalities will be able to have completely different spatial acts under this new law, and the state will have significantly more powers under this law than it had until yesterday - these are the substantive changes that would certainly deserve more attention or more time to determine the final solutions to each law. Finally, before the adoption of this Law on Spatial Planning in the National Assembly, we could also have a law on the construction of buildings, which the applicant also intends to submit, in order to familiarise ourselves with this content, and then evaluate the entire procedure of intervention in the space and planning of space, from all aspects necessary to enable us to take appropriate solutions here in the National Assembly. That's why in the Social Democrats Group, we really thought it would make sense for us to take into account the warnings of the Faculty of Construction, to receive opinions from both the head of the Department of Geodesy, the Construction Department, the Institute of Municipal Economy, the Department of Spatial Planning and so on. The most prominent representatives of these institutions point out that, however, this law is not all the way it should be for them to have effective spatial planning in Slovenia, and that it is primarily possible to capture all those hands that we need, not only because of the 3rd development axis, which is often tried in public as a key solution for interventions, but that all procedures need to be looked at in fact and whether procedures will not even result in an extension of all deadlines and thus lose the opportunity to obtain both European and state resources in each region. Therefore, it makes sense for us to carry out an additional study of this content and, of course, to postpone consideration from this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u8	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Your Honor, you see how fast he turns. When we, a month ago, at this meeting, asked the Prime Minister clearly and loudly how the resolution on development programmes could draw the 3rd development axis, which is quite something, he also replied to us - that there was only something in it. That was the answer. I have a magnetogram. Today, we hear that the adoption of the law we are talking about depends on the beginning of a part of the third development axis, which surprises me at all, because for the first time, we don't even know where this third development axis is going to go, on the other hand, with all due respect, Mr Minister, already in one way or another, the deadline has been postponed for two years and the third time, you have put the profession, on the one hand, and the smart decisions, on the other hand, at the opposite. The profession wants to, and I can honestly tell you this, because I've been asking myself, to adopt this law because it makes it easier for them to work, not content, that's an essential difference. That's the kind of explanation I got. And I would be in favour of this and the Slovenian National Party would support this law if it had no more amendments throughout the whole phase than it had had any articles, and if we now had a clear position around the third development axis. Oh, that's right. I find that rude. Europe gives money for the third development axis, an official contractor is selected, an expert study is done, it is selected, [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in the development programme, but today, let's say it stabbed me when you mentioned that if this law is not adopted or the withdrawal is withdrawn, again, the third development axis and all, will be moved for another year. [[..]] This is not fair, it is not fair from the government at all to this National Assembly, but even more not fair to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because, you know, the third development axis is not just Zasavje and Trbovlje, where there lived 70,000 inhabitants, is Koroška, is Savina Valley, is Zasavje, is Posavje and is South-Eastern Slovenia. Unless someone else makes it up at this time, we're gonna be somewhere else. And I do not accept this position, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that it is now up to the adoption of this law when the third development axis begins when the Prime Minister tells us that they do not know where it will be. This is an argument that the Slovenian National Party supports the proposal to prepare the law as it must.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group supports this law. We believe that by preparing amendments to this law, of which we are co-signers, we have also made an important contribution to the elimination of individual worse solutions and we were confident that the matter will be perfectly normal in the third reading, but then a letter of professional opinion came to the public if I can thus express myself which opens up new reservations or concerns. In this sense, we think that it would be okay if the law were postponed for a third reading until the next meeting and we could reconsider some of the dilemmas, so we will support this withdrawal. I must also say that the number of meetings with the professional public does not yet constitute a substantive consideration of the opinion of the professional public. The Minister's response was flawed for us in this respect when he said that he had had several meetings with them. This is possible, but the second is the question of how much has been taken into account what the profession has proposed, and this can be a result that is acceptable to all and not acceptable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Gantar, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u12	That's right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support, in the Group of Members, we will support the proposal of the Social Democrats to postpone the decision on the law on spatial planning in the third reading. I will not repeat myself that from the beginning I have been very strongly opposed to this law, both in the previous parliamentary group and in the past. I have pointed out conceptual problems and delusions, I have pointed out some distinct and seemingly visible professional shortcomings and errors that place this law in a purely different category, and I have warned that if there is no comprehensive overhaul of other segments of spatial legislation, from the LAG and other matters, this law will in no way contribute to a more efficient country, to reducing delays, etc. I myself proposed to another parliamentary group a public presentation of the views that had been rejected, along with some others, that some amendments should change. None of this was done. I am well aware of myself and have also received the initiative of societies and universities in relation to this law. In fact, it is necessary to attach mainly or all of their arguments. At the same time, it must be said that the problem of this law is not what Mr Minister would like to tell us, namely that this problem is that the landscape architects do not agree with this law. No, no. That's the least of your problems. The fact is, they don't agree with them all kinds of disciplines, colleges, and they point out the problems that this marriage will bring. Otherwise, you can visit the website [[www.traekt.org]] you will find a whole discussion on this subject and a series of additional arguments. It is therefore necessary, in my opinion, to support the proposal that this law should not be decided at this meeting to give representatives in the National Assembly the opportunity to decide what is the matter with this law. And at this point, I also partly agree with the President, with the Minister, whether it is only a question of whether we are going forward with this law or whether we will be forced to reject it. We also see that, in this case, the partnership for development has not yielded the expected results, and it is only right that we refer to this law in a broader perspective and some broader team and in fact decide on the fate of this law. That is why I will say once again that we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Petan on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! True, it's an extremely important law. It must also be said that the law has long been in preparation. The law was well debated and the content was blown from all possible angles of view. Finally, a presentation was also made at first reading. We had our first hearing, and we got quite a few suggestions there. There have been a lot of changes in the amendment form, which is understandable because it is an extremely important content. What is essential is why marriage is needed in the new context. Why is it necessary to vent? For a simple reason, in practice, the existing law has led to an impossible situation. I must say that I have met with many representatives, including the professions, at this time, and I must say that in the end I did not know whether this was about improving the law or whether it was about lobbying. This is the situation, and I completely understand that. On the other hand, it must be said that the congregation cannot prepare its spatial acts because of a law such as this. It must be said that the government has met with the mayors. I think that even with the directors of municipal administrations, where the content was transmitted to them, where the municipalities had the opportunity to make their proposals and there were virtually no proposals, except that the municipalities requested that this law, for God's sake, be adopted as soon as possible because the spatial acts of the municipality could not be adopted. And both associations of congregations support the law as it was presented. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that in many municipalities, too, they have simply stopped the process of preparing spatial acts, which is exactly what this law expects. Therefore, it makes no sense for us to postpone and postpone this law. I would also like to say that there is already another law on the construction of buildings in preparation, which will build this content in some way. We are all aware of this, and I think that this law, which is now being prepared, will be a good basis for us to be able to take this solution into account in the construction law and then build it in the building solutions. However, I would like to say on behalf of the Group of Members that we do not claim that this law is ideal, that it is the best. Surely, however, it is significantly better than the present one, and the congregation will be able to prepare its acts, and the building law will end this whole. And we will not support this proposal in the SDS, because this law is already late and the work in the field is lagging behind.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you. Does the representative of the motioners want to withdraw for further explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're passing a voting device that doesn't work? [[...]] There is no debate between Members and Members. Then we move on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In order to allow for the proper preparation of individual agenda items, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I now propose that the point that the President placed at the end of tomorrow's 19th, namely, a mandate-holder case, 1A, a finding of termination of the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, and 2A, a finding of termination of the presidency, a Vice-President and a member of the working body, be considered not on Tuesday evening, but on Friday. I suggest we do this for the following reasons. Firstly, because there is no substantive need to deal separately with discharges and separate appointments, because we have always done otherwise. Secondly, I think that there are no formal business reasons for this because the College of the National Assembly decides on the powers of which bodies, presidents, vice-presidents, and also on the number of members. He's making a There was no decision on Friday when we discussed this. However, if we want to follow the provisions included in Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, as decided by the College, including in point 5, the indent, on the number of jobs in the working bodies belonging to the individual parliamentary group, and on which group belongs the Chair or Vice-President of the individual working body. And the last. I am convinced that we can better pursue the objective that, in the course of today's meeting of the National Assembly, Members' groups should try to harmonise the necessary number of members and vice-presidential or vice-presidential seats in view of the new composition, so that a decision can be taken at today's meeting of the National Assembly. However, I think we can postpone this decision to Friday, prepare ourselves for this, so in addition to this point, I propose, Mr President, that point 1A be "the determination of the termination and election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly" and point 2A is "the determination of the termination and the election of the President and Vice-President of the Working Body". I believe that, following the coordination between the parliamentary groups on Friday, we can do this properly, without coercion and inappropriate relations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you. You heard the procedural proposal. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. The proposal will not be adopted if one third of the Members oppose it. There are 77 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. That is why we are now moving on to the adoption of the agenda, as you have received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. The vote on the agenda is under way. 76 Members and Members are present. 66 votes against 6. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the agenda of the 26th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u18	We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 27 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. The following will be Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak answered the question raised at the 24th meeting of the assembly, to which he did not respond due to his absence. Today, the Minister of Finance should also answer the unanswered parliamentary questions raised at the 24th and 25th meetings of the Assembly. Since the Minister is excusedly absent today, he will answer the questions at the next meeting. Member of Parliament, Mrs Breda Pecan, and Member of Parliament, Mag. Janez Drobnič and Mr Only Bevk, who have submitted two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who have been registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of the Interior Dragutin Mate, Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Milan Zver from 15.15 to 17.45. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are now moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Davorin Terčon of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! At its meeting on 1 February, the Government adopted a decision establishing a special working group to assess the work of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service, including financial management and management of archival materials. The decision was not made available to the public. Only after it was published in the media did the government change its decision on the confidentiality of this decision. Slovenia has poor experience with the legality of the operation of intelligence services and the leaking of classified information that these services should protect. This experience ranges from illegal arrests through the removal of documentation to various "bots" through which personal data were disseminated publicly, partly from secret service files. Due to all these bad experiences, the sensitivity of the Slovenian public to any political involvement in the work of intelligence services is understandable and justified. Political control over the work of these services is, of course, necessary. It is carried out by the relevant parliamentary commission in our country. I am not saying that there is no right to control but that it should be exercised by Parliament and the public. Hiding behind secret labels in Slovenia once again gives rise to mistrust, which we have managed to eliminate somehow in recent years in this area. Mr President, on 21.3. in the diary of RTV Slovenia, you stated that you marked the decision as a secret in order to avoid politicisation. Article 5 of the Secret Data Act, which lists cases where a particular information is classified, does not know such a reason. If so, practically every information could be classified, so I ask you: On what legal basis did the government base its decision to mark the decision by a degree of secrecy? Do all members of the committee that reviewed classified information have, by law, the right to have access to classified information? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u20	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much for that question. Let me first very specifically answer the specific part of the issue relating to the legal basis. In addition to the article quoted by the honourable Member, this law also has other articles - for example, Article 13, which states in the fourth paragraph that a competent authority for internal matters may designate data "which disclosure to an uncalled-for person could harm the functioning or performance of the authority's tasks." At the press conference that you quoted, I made very clear that several questions arose at the government's meeting on the annual documents of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. To clarify these issues, the government has set up a working group which has received specific tasks and which does not deal with what has occurred in the public at the time of the formation of this working group, and has, of course, emerged after we have sent this decision to the parliamentary commission or to its president, who has requested it. It didn't come out before. The law on the protection of classified information also provides that those who have the right to be informed of such information shall also have the duty to protect them. Well, this has not been done in this case and it is also necessary to ask for responsibility. What happened in those days when this information came to the public shows very clearly that the label was "internal" until things were investigated, justified because now things are actually politicising in such a way that they affect the work of the body. That's about the legal basis. As far as the content of this issue is concerned, I agree that Slovenia also has poor experience with such services, that it is precisely because of these bad experiences that control is still necessary and that it is a bit surprising that someone who is legally in charge of supervision is concerned about the amount of this control, instead of worrying that perhaps something that has been determined by this internal control is true. Just because the government wanted to avoid it, as I said at the time, we wanted to get credible confirmation, maybe they were holding things, maybe they weren't. We could've done something different. Once in Slovenian history, it was different. It was 1992 when someone else was Prime Minister, another party had this responsibility, and once a letter came out to a staff member of this agency who was very burdened by some policies and also by leading workers in this service. Although this letter was then sent to the Prime Minister, it appeared in newspapers the next day. On the basis of this letter, human resources exchanges were then made, those who were affected initiated judicial proceedings, those who wrote this letter miraculously disappeared abroad, and I do not think they have yet achieved it, and at that time the matter has already grown old. However, it was unknowingly politicized, the service was accused of illegal proceedings, it later turned out in court proceedings that it was right to detect irregularities in the then gambling activities, people were convicted in the courts of jurisdiction, but it was not surprising that this story had recently been given an epilogue when those who were then Prime Minister and to whom some of the findings concerned were subsequently pardoned in another function of those who were legally convicted. Things came back to square one. In short, there is a story that has been very politicized, which has burdened the Slovenian public and which is not good. We wanted to avoid it. The government has set up a group in accordance with its competences that does not look at any personal or secret data, it would be fair to check that you say so, but not to make statements after looking at them, but rather to sow suspicions in advance. A simple report will be made available to all supervisory and other institutions. Suspects can hold, they can't hold. By putting things in the public eye, you've only made it difficult to check.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u23	Yes, please. First time. Mr Prime Minister, I think it's too easy for you to make judgments and convictions now, who put something in the public eye. This is unacceptable and incorrect. Mr President, I have explained to you and I have also explained to the Slovenian public. I wrote you 12.3. The content of the decision came to the public 21. If I were to put something in public, it would probably have come out sooner if I'd written to you on the 12th. As I explained to you, I was not in Parliament until I was 22. I read about the decision earlier in the paper than I saw him as chairman of the commission. So this is completely unfair, unfair, and unrealistic. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr President, I must conclude that you have answered what I have not asked you and that you have not answered my question. So I need to reiterate some concern whether some practice will be put in place again to collect some documents and some data and then launch into the public at a politically appropriate time. I will remind you of a number of cases of Mr Nučič of the Bank of Slovenia, where it was a matter of discrediting his wife because he had taken a candidate for governor, Mr Rant. Member of your party Miro Petek knows where Drnovšek slept in 1999, when he was a prime minister on a visit to America. And there are a number of these cases. Mr Jelinčič obviously knows - his question of the Member is convincing me that he knows that there were two people who claim to be connected to Drnovšek and employees in Owl, and I wonder where he got this information. Mr. Prime Minister, I only ask you one question: [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] - if one group entered the Owl eight times, the visits lasted several hours, only once Mr Sturm was present. Most of the contacts were made by Mr. Cvelbar, an employee of the Owl, and Mr. Lavrov, a staff member of yours. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u25	Well, I don't see any direct connection to that listing. That particular description seems to me to be concrete proof that some thing is being politicized. What led the government to the establishment of this group has not yet appeared in general or in a smaller form in the public eye. But if we did what we used to do, this would fill the newspapers today, and it could eventually prove that most of us do not. I think we're being accused here in the wrong direction. However, if it turns out, Mr Tarchoon, at least half of what led the government to set up this commission is true, and then you will be very blushing, given that you had on your shoulders the responsibility of oversight in this service. Therefore, I suggest, even for your sake, that we wait with our conclusions. This Commission or this working group does not have the authority to look at personal data and does not do so either. The members of this group have divided the work among themselves. Everyone does what they do best. It is also a matter of verifying the appropriateness of the legal basis for the operation of this service and therefore it is also necessary for top legal experts. And there's nothing wrong with this group's work. But I'm afraid it's going to turn out to be something wrong before. And indeed, the government has done this in a professional, fundamentally different way from what has happened in the past. I appeal to all of you to contribute within your powers to keep it that way. Otherwise, you will also provoke the behaviour of those who are not affected, because whenever it comes to those things, different information is circulated on different routes and this is certainly not the interest of the government. Our interest is to clarify what is true and what is not true and to act accordingly. And the fact is, I regret to repeat this, that, despite the fact that the Commission worked perfectly normally, no information came to the public because the data was protected under the law, and you asked that question until we sent the material to your commission. The Commission is responsible for this, but is also responsible for the protection of this data. Even in this direction it is necessary [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] to explore things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you. Procedural proposal, please, Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 146 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to my question of the Member States. Just a quick explanation. First of all, I must say that Mr. Prime Minister did not answer my two questions: Who had the legal basis under the law on classified information for access to classified information? And secondly, he did not definitively answer the question: Why was the decision secretly marked? Let me do it again. There were eight visits, but they lasted several hours. Most of the visits took place between Mr Cvelber, an employee of the Owl, and Mr Lavrich, a staff member of the cabinet of the President of the Government, an ex-military intelligence officer. It is more than too much to talk about the technical relocation of the archives or the documentary material of the Owl. Mr. President! On the basis of your answer, I also conclude that you have already found that everything is wrong in Owl. That's why I'm also wondering what the point is that you've even set up a commission when you already know that. Maybe just so that this conclusion can be easily confirmed. As I say, since my answers are not satisfactory, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this sensitive subject in accordance with Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Tercheon to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next is Mr Zmajgo Jelinčič Trimeniti, who will ask the Prime Minister questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The thinking that enlargement of the European Union is not supposed to be is growing in Europe. The latest figures show between 40% and 47% of the people opposed to the European Union spreading, as the statement by Charles Tennock's representative in the European Union's Parliament from Great Britain, who said that those of the Western Balkan countries, the Serbs, Croats, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegrins, should agree on one language in which they could speak together. The term of the Western Balkan country is increasingly being used, so I ask the Prime Minister: Will Slovenia take over this terminology and, from now on, will it support the joint entry of the Western Balkan countries, namely Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania, which is the tendency of most Western European Union countries or the European Union, or will it continue to insist on the partial push of Croatia into the Euro-Atlantic communities? The Slovenian National Party will submit its proposal for a resolution on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on Monday 2.4, as the current resolution prepared by the Slovenian People's Party was only one such attempt, which is in principle worse than that declaration on the indivisibility of the Gulf of Piran in 1994. Once again, I ask the Prime Minister: Will Slovenia, in line with the European orientation, still use the term of the Western Balkans country or will it continue to insist on our good southern neighbour Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you for asking. The term Western Balkans applies, but when it comes to the European perspective of the countries that exist in the area or which are in the area, it does not mean much, since the European Union is now, as it has been for a long time, its enlargement policy, based on the principles of each candidate country being treated separately. And beyond Croatia, if we limit ourselves to the rest of the circle of countries, these countries are in different status and are unlikely to become members of the European Union at the same time. It is said that each Member State or each candidate country has its own negotiating framework and must negotiate or meet certain criteria within this negotiating framework. Here I do not think that the convoy will be, at least not as it was at the last enlargement in 2004, of which Slovenia was part, but also then some countries are behind this convoy. I am referring to Romania and Bulgaria, which were adopted only on 1 January this year. Of these countries, southern of us Croatia is the only one that has already started negotiations, the second is Macedonia, which has candidate status, but has not yet entered into negotiations. I must say that it is in Slovenia's interest that these countries become EU members, including Croatia, to meet these conditions and that in our neighbourhood we will get a region that will be stable, where predictable consequences will be expected and where it will finally be possible to build a future for generations that have suffered a lot in the past. It is also in our interest, in view of the outstanding issues that we have between Slovenia and Croatia and also some other countries in the area, to resolve some of these negotiations. Many of these open issues are not only questions that these countries would have only raised with Slovenia, but they have such or similar questions or are open when it comes to cooperation with other EU Member States. Even when it comes to neighbouring Croatia, there are a number of areas where our open issues are related to negotiating structures, such as the entry of banks into the Croatian market, the creation of a nuclear waste decommissioning fund, sea fishing, the opening of the market or the removal of barriers and discriminatory practices in accessing the market. The latter is a particularly up-to-date real estate market. In this regard, let me say that today we have received from a neighbouring country a diplomatic note in which they are opening the market. We have not examined it in substance yet, but this note has formally arrived and has established a formal framework within which citizens of both countries will be able to buy property in both countries. Slovenia, as you know, adopted the relevant legislation and everything else last year. In the negotiating framework of the neighbouring country for EU accession, point 13 also expresses the EU's expectation that the candidate country will address its relations with its neighbours in a good manner, that it will also resolve open issues related to bordering with its neighbours in the same way and that it will respect the principles of international law. In this latter case, it is necessary to know that this candidate country does not have open border issues, only with Slovenia, but also with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. And these warnings, of course, refer to the entire border assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you. Would you like to complete Mr. Jelinčič's reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. In response, I felt some kind of spirit that the Slovenian government was also coming closer to the European approach, so that it would probably be necessary to change the relationship and accept this option on the common entry of the Western Balkan countries. It is true that treatment cannot be parallel and simultaneously at the same level, but I think it makes sense to determine simultaneous entry. This is what Europe has already understood, because it knows that there will be very serious disturbances, if I say so gently, in this area. After all, the Maastricht criteria have not been taken into account in Romania and Bulgaria, let alone so that we can talk about this issue on the issue of Croatia. And compliance with these criteria towards Croatia is closer to paying attention to Serbia than anything else. It would also be difficult to say that this is a negotiation. Countries are negotiating at the same level, which Croatia cannot possibly be compared to the European Union. Therefore, I would also suggest that Slovenia, in its first half of its Presidency of the European Union in 2008, should have two main issues or starting points. Firstly, the European Union and the energy strategy, including the external aspects of the energy strategy, and secondly, the resolution of the Western Balkan countries' issue and the entry of this group into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u34	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u35	Perhaps before I continue to answer, just a short reminder that Slovenia was also a candidate for membership in the European Union a few years ago, and at that time we were not exactly happy when similar discussions took place in the parliaments of the countries that were already members, because of course this was a different situation. Given the situation currently in the European Union, I think, and I will not say regret, it is not possible to expect some rapid steps towards further enlargement, there will certainly be no step until the issue of the European Constitutional Treaty or the upgrading of existing treaties, which would also allow the European Union to operate beyond 27, and that, let's say, simply meeting the conditions for membership in the future is more difficult than at the time Slovenia entered. This is perfectly clear and, unfortunately, it is not expected that the atmosphere in the European Union will change overnight or that there will be a great willingness to accelerate these steps. Many efforts are already needed to preserve themselves in decisions or in the European instruments to be adopted, to even mention enlargement or the importance of these commitments, which the European Union has adopted in the past in relation to the countries south of us, especially in decisions in Thessaloniki years before Slovenia became a member, and there is some way that the countries of the Western Balkans, including Croatia, are promised a European perspective if they meet the conditions. Recently, however, every time the commitment to further enlargement is confirmed in the European Union, on the other hand, it is immediately added that, on the one hand, the conditions met by the candidate countries and, on the other hand, the absorption capacity of the European Union or the existing Member States are respected. And most of the time, it thinks of the institutional foundations that must be upgraded before the future enlargement.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you. Next, Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u37	Honourable President, Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Ministers and Minister, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! With Slovenia's entry into NATO and earlier in the Partnership for Peace, certain obligations were imposed on it, both in terms of providing equipment and other military resources and a certain proportion of the State budget. These funds are not small, so it is even more important that they are used as rationally as possible and that the equipment purchased is also later used for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. One such obligation that Slovenia has received is the mobile military hospital Role 2 which was also purchased from this part of the budget. The capacity of the Role 2 mobile hospital has already been initially envisaged for use both in the context of the relationship and in the case of natural and other accidents, as well as for other civil purposes. It is also right that the funds earmarked for military use should also be used to the greatest extent possible in peacetime for the needs of citizens and citizens. Last but not least, Slovenia is certainly much more at risk at this time due to accidents, natural and other disasters than war aggression. And it's all good and good. Unfortunately, it's stuck in the most important article, this is in the use of this equipment. And the very rational use of these funds is the content of my question. The mobile hospital has been out of service for almost a year and a half and is standing in front of Murska Sobota Hospital, which has also concluded a contract with the General Staff of the Slovenian Army to train 12 medical workers. But the mobile hospital is still on its own. Let me also point out that there have been very high costs. The hospital has stood at 9 million euros and, since it has been out of service for two years, costs have increased to almost a million euros. So, Prime Minister-respected, I ask you: How will the government repair damage that is not small and completely unnecessary? We have equipment we don't use. How will the government try to prevent similar cases in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you for asking. With regard to the last part of the question, let me say that we will try to do differently in the future than we did in the past. The substantive decision to purchase this hospital was taken in 2001 when the so-called Partnership Objective was set. At that time, the basis was laid for the decision to obtain a military hospital for the brigade level. The procurement contract was signed four days before the last elections, I think on 29 September 2004. Since then, the equipment has started to come, and it was finally taken over in February of this year. Indeed, part of this equipment was demolished at Murska Sobota Hospital, but much of this equipment was not taken over and could not be used. But that's not the basic problem. The main problem is that there was a hospital for the brigade, but the brigade didn't. And also later, the partnership goals changed; by the way, they were not determined by NATO, but by Slovenia itself in 2001 and later changed or proposed otherwise. Only uses of battalion groups are foreseen, we have them, but we do not have a hospital for battalion groups. What has been procured is not possible for various technical reasons, capacity and so on to be easily divided into parts and used for the battalion group, part of it is useful, part is not. How useful it is, as you ask, is now being handled by a special group appointed or set up by the Minister of Defence. When visiting the government in a region where most of this equipment is now standing, we have also recently discussed this and the agreement was that equipment should be used as rationally as possible and that what is not useful or cannot be used to carry out the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces is used for civil protection or for civil health purposes. However, some cost gap will still remain because this purchase of this hospital, following this assessment now made by the Ministry of Defence, was not rational. She got a hospital for the brigade, and the brigade wasn't working. This is a fundamental problem, and I hope that there will be no such thing in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't give a shit about buying myself. It seems to me that the hospital has been out of service for so long. This minister has taken over the hospital for a year and a half. And the interdepartmental arrangements with the Ministry of Health did not produce those fruits. More importantly, if we don't have any concerns, then it's so much more appropriate that the hospital needs to be used to the greatest extent possible for civil purposes. That is why I ask you, Madam President of the Government: How will you achieve that this hospital will be operational as soon as possible and how will you ensure that the funds allocated for this purpose are used as rationally as possible? Last but not least, we have seen from the statements that whether the hospital is suitable or not, the minister has only recently found out, not at the time of the takeover. The goals that have changed have changed, Slovenia's goals changed in 2005, which is the time of your government. That would have made sense by then, too, to consider and anticipate what would then happen to this equipment and how to use it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u43	Experts will decide what such equipment can be used for civilian purposes, or they will look into it. But those who have ever seen a military hospital will be assured that quite a significant part of this equipment for civilian purposes cannot be used because it is mobile operating rooms, such as where expensive technology ensures sterileness and so on. This is a matter that is useful exclusively for military purposes and is, by the way, very expensive. At this point, what the Minister ordered must be done. So this group has to say these things exactly. It would be difficult to establish that this ministry was responsible for the fact that, I don't know, the equipment was coming so long that it wasn't taken over or that it hadn't been done before because this minister didn't sign the contracts where the deadlines and conditions were set. The contract for the purchase of this hospital was signed four days before the last elections. This contract laid down these deadlines and everything else. The last takeover was made in February this year. And until the equipment on which people's lives are potentially dependent is taken technically and someone's responsible, so it can't be used. This isn't about building furniture. Thus, I think that the committee responsible, Parliament, will also work on this when the ministry makes or when this group makes its proposals, will also be sent to the committee responsible, and I hope that we will make useful use of it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. So, with my question, I pointed out the big problem, and it's an irrational management of taxpayer money. Medical equipment is purchased on the one hand, but it is not used, and unfortunately this is not the only case. We also know medical equipment that waits in boxes in the Clinical Center for so long that the warranty hands also flow. Last but not least, the famous example of the Falcon government plane is well known. At that time, the opposition launched a big shout and scream when the plane was also purchased from the budget part of the money earmarked for the military, but could also be used for other and civilian purposes. Now, precisely because of that scream and the scream, the government can't swallow the word and on the one hand, it prefers to conclude contracts for the very expensive rental of other aircraft, instead of making substantial use of this. The fact is, we get much less from the Falcon rental than it costs to rent other aircraft. That is why, my fellow Members and colleagues, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a general debate at one of the following meetings, and in this way also give an opportunity to clarify more fully the things we have discussed and I have asked the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Slavinac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will be next to ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u47	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! Slovenia has introduced the euro as its own currency as the only new member of the European Union. The condition for taking over the euro was, inter alia, a low public debt and a low public deficit. For this undoubtedly great success, we have received many praises from abroad, thus strengthening our position and reputation in the international community. Although the state of public finances is very good, Slovenia and other European countries will not be able to avoid the ageing process. In view of demographic projections, the sustainability of the pension system is expected to deteriorate especially after 2020, which means that additional measures will be needed. Although it has been repeatedly stressed that the government is aware of the ageing process and has presented the necessary additional measures already in the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, there is a continuing demand in the public that another radical pension reform be implemented immediately. I ask: In the opinion of the Government, is this really necessary in the next period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you so much for asking. So the new radical pension reform is not necessary and the government is not planning it. The reform adopted in 2000 or the 2000 reform, which has been coordinated for a long time, is being implemented gradually or is still being implemented, results in a relatively soft way, and today, for example, the retirement age in Slovenia is comparable to the age good for retirement on average in the European Union. The very precise public financial calculations also show that if no measures were taken to increase the sustainability of the pension system, pension expenditure in 2015 would be in eight years' time, they would represent a 0.6% higher share of the gross domestic product than today. Far from breaking the public financial system. What is the aim of this government is to improve the sustainability of the pension system at the same time, while at the same time improving the situation of pensioners within the scope of the option. More than once, when we hear criticism of the government's conduct, it is only about the sustainability of the pension system that no one asks about the sustainability of pensioners. It's like we're talking about a system that's dead in nature. So we need to work in both directions, and this is the goal of this government, so that we will be in the face of problems that we do not deny and that are faced by the whole of Europe when the population is old, and at the same time life and the possibility of staying in employment for a long time. In short, while facing these challenges, it must also be borne in mind that the rest of the system is not at peace. The key instrument in which we can mitigate these negative trends or neutralize them is reducing unemployment and increasing employment. And here, in recent years, we have recorded good results. In Slovenia there has never been as low number of unemployed as at this point since independence. Therefore, higher employment, consequently higher economic growth, less social expenditure for the unemployed, etc. creates a favourable public financial picture, which also withstands the pressures of population ageing and the sustainability of the pension system. However, we also have a number of manoeuvres in the segment called supplementary or voluntary pension insurance. Here we have some experience based on a law that is now in operation for about 7 years. These experiences are now being analysed and we are likely to implement or propose some additional instruments here. In the context of economic and social reforms, we have also foreseen measures to motivate employees to remain and work voluntarily when they feel able, but of course they must be motivated to do so. And by combining these measures, without any new radical pension reform, it is possible, on the one hand, to ensure permanent sustainability of the pension system and, on the other hand, to improve the social situation of pensioners. We have a pension system based on solidarity between generations. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Here, it is possible to expect the life of future generations to be better than the generations of those who are now retired. And it is not always reasonable to follow just all the advice that comes from somewhere and where only one side is viewed. We have a neighbouring country where they have very strictly followed the instructions of some international institutions, the average pension there today is 30% of the average wage. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] In Slovenia, the average pension is close to 70% of the average wage, but we still have a far better economic situation and higher economic growth. So much for the need to be on such advice [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. The question was rational because it upsets the older population, especially the pensioners, especially in view of the statements we heard on television from the representative of the European Union. I must say that the current generation of pensioners find it difficult to accept additional restrictions on their rights at the expense of those fears that appear to us after 2020 or even later. For there is often an apology for the request for a new reform in 2050, which is difficult to understand by an 80-year-old pensioner today, if there are any other rights to be waived for the problems at that time. And in this sense, this response by the President of the Government is valuable to appease the pension public in our country, even in the part where we get the answer, to think more about how to provide the necessary funds for the pension fund in terms of increasing employment and creating greater added value, rather than primarily thinking about how to reduce rights so that the system is sustainable for a longer period. So I thank you for the answer in this spirit, which was needed in order to answer these questions, which are everywhere, in the pension assemblies of which the season is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you. Would you like to answer, Mr President, or was it not exactly a question? Then I thank you. This concludes the question to the President of the Government. We turn to questions posed to ministers and ministers. At the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, Mrs Marjetka Uhan asked the Minister of Economy of Mags a question. Andre Visiak about the possibility of greater biofuel production. Since the Minister was not porous, the Member requested an oral reply to the next meeting of the assembly. That's why I'm giving the Minister the floor to answer the question. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Mr President! I want to be as brief as possible. What did the government do? A lot. Indeed, it supported and not only supported, but it was also one of the means of the idea that Member States would have to achieve a mandatory target of at least 10% of the share of biofuels in transport fuel consumption by 2020. This is the commitment that has been discussed during this period. And Slovenia was one of the first Member States to support that this objective is also binding, not only targeted or desirable. Indeed, this objective will encourage further action in the context of the drafting of the regulation in order to, of course, also apply accordingly. This means that all factories or all possible locations will be significantly more economical for investors to actually do so. Indeed, we are no longer in the time of the planned economy when the Minister or Government can order someone to deal with this or that activity. The Government must take appropriate measures, an appropriate environment, in order to establish economic reasons for this type of production to happen. We therefore estimate that it would make sense for the owner of the Ormož Sugar Factory to consider the relevance, cost-effectiveness of investments in terms of restructuring the existing Ormož Sugar Factory in the production of bioethanol. I think this is also possible from the resources the owner can obtain for restructuring. Unfortunately, the current owner has not yet clearly defined this option. We certainly believe that these decisions will be the decisions of the European Council, which were taken between 8 and 9 March 2007 in Brussels, including an additional motive, an additional signal that investment in biofuel production makes sense. I would still like to point out that, and that second-generation technologies should be implemented here, because, insofar as biomass or energy plants, raw materials are used excessively for energy purposes, this may, on the other hand, be a blow to sustainable development and, as a result, measures should be considered, weighed and proportionate. As a result, it was also a key message from the European institutions that this is primarily about second-generation biofuels that are found in modern technologies. In short, if I conclude, there are many signals that this will be the production of the future, and I believe that Slovenian energy companies will also take this as a challenge and actually undertake concrete economic projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. However, I specifically asked: ‘ Did the government talk to Petrol or Petrol about the Ormož factory in this situation, or at the time that it left the sugar production, on this subject? I believe that this depends largely on the owners, but if concrete incentives were to come from the state, the owners might also be able to make a better decision. Once again, thank you for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Of course, we talked or talked about this with the economic society you are talking about. They are already developing production at another location, investing also in this production and also taking this opportunity as a challenge. We have also done this more or less in the direction, in some way, of the spirit of your question, and I think and I hope that this will also encourage any additional, mental or planned concept within this largest Slovenian energy society. By the way, in Slovenia too, this area is part of the field of several departments. I think it's a very complex issue. On the one hand, the issue of agriculture, on the other hand, deals with this primary production of energy plants and not least the sugar beet, which was the previous raw material in the Ormož Sugar Factory, the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the Ministry of Economy, as well as the Ministry of Transport or Transport, not least due to the use of biofuels in transport. I therefore believe that we will also find concrete projects and concrete solutions together in the framework of inter-departmental cooperation in order to achieve this binding objective by 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Mr. Visjak, get ready. Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much! Mr President, distinguished ministers. We know the commitment of countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 - compared to 1990. The amount of greenhouse gas emissions is expected to decrease by 8% in Slovenia from the baseline year 1986. According to the Director of the Environment Directorate, we should not have too many problems with achieving this commitment, so we need to reduce greenhouse gases by 8%. They say we have large reserves in energy efficiency in large systems, such as the Termoelectric Trbovlje and the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. In my question, I refer in particular to this latter - the thermal power plant Šostanj, which is of paramount importance for the Shaleška Valley, also of great importance due to the quality of the jobs and of extraordinary importance, of course, also related to the Coal Velenje, where energy comes from, i.e. lignite. The future operation of this thermal power plant Šostanj is, as I have already said, in close connection with jobs, with quality jobs. It will also be a time when everyone responsible in the Shale Valley will have to look to the future, at a time when the energy in the Shaleska Valley, i.e. lignite, will have to be used and other developmental possibilities for this valley, particularly in the area of coal, will need to be found. The Šostanj thermal power plant can certainly operate after the expiry of this foreseeable or anticipated period of operation. In all this story, it is certainly important how it will start and, of course, end the investment in block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, how far is the project of planning and building the 6th block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. I think it is a very important project of block 6 of the Thermoelectric Šostjanj, which has also been given a place in the resolution of national projects - one of the key energy projects of the future of Slovenia. Why? Because the Government knows and appreciates the importance of Coal Velenje, as well as the Termoelectrica Šostanj, not only as important employees in the region, but also as extremely important and necessary national energy projects. In fact, a significant part of the security of Slovenia's electricity supply is based on the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. When there is no water - what happened last year - it covers most of the electricity needs that rivers cannot provide due to lack of water or lower water. That is why we want to upgrade, develop this facility into a modern energy and environment, sustainable development of a friendly energy facility. Therefore, the Government has included the Termoelectrica Šostanj in this resolution strategy and is also developing it in accordance with the expected dynamics. In fact, the thermal power plant Šostanj is important and this investment is also due to the lifetime of the Velenje Coal. In fact, with greater efficiency, the thermal power plant Šostanj is also improving the life of the mine, as the same amount of energy will require less coal and will also be less emissions and will also be optimal efficiency and recovery. Thus, the investment programme audited by an independent professional institution and adopted by the management in April 2006 has already benefited from the supervisory board's consent. Procedures for the preparation of spatial acts for the installation of the Šostanj thermal power plant in the space are under way. An agreement was reached between the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Economy and the Municipality of Šostjanj and the Termoelectrica Šostanj on the preparation, reception and financing of the preparation of the municipal spatial planning plan for block 6. A programme for the preparation of this municipal site plan and a programme for the preparation of the municipal site plan for the cooling tower and the chimney of block 6 have been published. An invitation to tender for the selection of eligible tenderers for the supply of main technical equipment for Block 6 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union in October. Offers were made by two bidders, the ability was recognised both. It therefore invited the two tenderers to complete or submit tenders on the basis of the tendering documents. The selection of the supplier of technical equipment and technological equipment is foreseen in February of the following year. The current timetable is in line and is expected to close this investment in the last quarter of 2012. Šostanj thermal power plant is also in agreement with the European Investment Bank on the possible hire of credits; however, this decision has not yet been formally adopted or confirmed. I therefore believe that this investment is in line with the envisaged flow. The Ministry of Economy, as I have already said, supports it, is supported by the Government, otherwise it would not be included in the resolution of national projects. So that this investment is likely to have a lot to gain, like any such important investment, and we will also coordinate and rescue it from the other side. That is why we want to actually put this conclusion or this, even procedurally, investment in real life and realisation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Minister, for this encouraging information or information. In doing so, I certainly wish, as all the inhabitants and residents of the Valley would like to do in order to make this investment, that this project will be managed with skill, so that it will be as few as possible and that the obstacles to the construction of the sixth block will be as few as possible. However, I would like a few more words from you about how to finance the construction of this sixth block of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, because at this point it is probably one of the most important decisions that need to be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you. Can I help you, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u65	As I have already said, the Czech Power Plant is negotiating with the European Investment Bank on the possible hiring of credit, which is one of the most realistic sources to finance this. In fact, I believe that this is still a matter of certain negotiations, also of verifications, and there is still no final decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Friend has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not some kind of concrete procedural proposal. Indeed, I have already raised a clear question at the previous meeting of the Minister of Finance, Dr Bayuk, to which, before I put it here, I have already received a written reply, i.e. at the previous meeting he was not present, as was the case with the divestment of the state share of the general shipping company, Portorož. And since this is the central theme of today's day, we can also read today who is enriched with the General Navigation, the Primorski News, and the opening of the second sales package from the SOD and the KAD and because the majority manager is unjustifiably Mr Döhle, a German who essentially bought 20% of the stake and has numerous criminal charges in other countries, I would like a clear reply from Mr Minister before the majority of the state's share that this gentleman will most likely buy is sold out. And if the universal Slovenia deals with this from the public prosecutor's office, the Kosovo Commission, the Court of Auditors, I expect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u68	Mr. Friend, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u69	Yeah, yeah, I'll pass. I expect the Minister to be so responsible that he comes before the National Assembly and answers these questions, especially because he is personally involved in receiving bribes. I suggest you, Madam President, invite him to one of the following meetings to come here and explain this, because otherwise I do not have this business opportunity to request an extended debate in the National Assembly. They will sell the shares of the SOD and the KAD before the Minister will be pleased to join the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u70	Well, this is not exactly a procedural proposal to put to the vote. But I must say that we are entering a period where these complications will be more frequent. On Mondays in Brussels, the Minister has Europe, or on many Mondays, and he has left today, cannot miss a meeting of euro area finance ministers. It's very important. And I am thinking about how much the College will agree to do so, in such cases, that we will also put the questions of Members to the Minister of Finance on another day of the week when we are meeting. But that can't be solved now. We're moving on. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My parliamentary question aims to contribute to solving the problem of Slovenian bears, especially how to ensure co-existence between people and bears. The problem in recent times has been somewhat upsetting to Slovenian as well as to the world's public. In the light of the last case, it is clear that action, as in the last case, does not solve anything or even more; on the contrary. The inappropriate way, in my opinion, is to launch a fire. And that's why I'm asking the Minister from this town: In the light of the final case, do we have any newer knowledge, brighter solutions? Or quite simply: How would we react if such a case were repeated tomorrow? Would you repeat the story a few weeks ago? Because no one can be satisfied with the ransom, and the facts are as follows: that for a lair near the village there was a power to know well before. The lair could be properly marked and protected. I also want to know what is essential to this story: Did the Ministry obtain all the information that sheds light on the story from all sides? Was it an accident? Was it about challenging individuals of a bear who defended her cubs? Whether it was necessary to sacrifice two bears and use them as a target or bait for a mother bear, I will not lose words. Nor is it what the public is asking whether the bear is still alive or not. All those who know nature, savages and animals well, we know that this bear is no longer in this world. For there is no mother, nor those on four feet, who will not overcome fear of the hunters, nor return to their young. In any case, the dilemma, the question, the problem, which has many questions and few answers. However, some of the solutions proposed by the profession also lead towards such problems, such unloving events first for the benefit of people and then for the benefit of animals will not be repeated. There are several cases known in Slovenia and the world. We need to clear the number first. Is the bear really as much as we think? We can reach out to scientific methods that will help us resolve this issue. Then, last but not least, the re-introduction of feeding grounds, not vultures, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] but the feeding grounds, where bears will be better able to meet their nutritional needs than the gray ones. [[...]] And something else is going to happen in this direction for the second part of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much for this question, honourable Member. Let me first mention, as you said, the unfortunate event. It is also important to say that the public, locals and relatives are also asking what kind of life this 31-year-old citizen is waiting for, who seems to have spent his entire life being marked by this encounter with a bear. Well, he's very badly injured. And I think that's something that needs to be said in the first place. I would like to say that I am assessing that I myself, as Minister of Environment and Space, have taken the responsibility of taking care of the management of the large beast population, that I have received a difficult and responsible task, but that together with the experts, with the advice of this competent professional institution, we are responsible for managing the population of the brown bear in the Republic of Slovenia with two purposes to ensure the safety of people, their lives and health, their assets and the continued provision of a long-term balanced population. In recent weeks, several mayors and parents have turned to me again. They're worried about their kids going to school. When the van gets them, they walk a mile home and they're afraid of meeting a bear. What am I supposed to say to them? And what happens most tragically is that such a child loses his life, will you suggest that the minister resign? So I have to tell you that I have really taken a very responsible approach to solving this issue. The question also relates to the level of annual nature removal - I take into account the professional basis of both institutions, the Institute for Nature Protection and the Institute for Forests of Slovenia. I have before me this expert opinion, which very clearly also lists the method, the method through which the monitoring of the brown bear is consistently established, and also determines the procedure by which the counting of the brown bear goes and then the number of the population is assessed. Finally, one of the actions of the Life Natura project was the starting point. Together, we must also say and find that, based on the long-standing monitoring of the state of the brown bear population in Slovenia, it is estimated that the Slovenian brown bear population is between 500 and 700. And then there's an important data: with a minimum of 500, the brown bear population increases by at least 125 animals each year. With regard to the response of the intervention group mentioned by you, I can only say that measures are in accordance with the rules on conservation of nature, game and hunting, veterinary and animal protection. We at the Ministry are interested in applying other methods in addition to catching. I'd count you one. Replacing the shooting by moving to other countries, in particular among the members of the European Union. A few ministers have turned to me, and when I answer them and explain to them what is the formal basis and decisions, I also offer them to everyone, take some of our bears. They do not want to accept any of them, except France last year and before last year, but we moved them with good cooperation, other countries - and we had very severe protests there, and with great difficulty achieved this symbiosis in Great France, which has a significantly smaller number of bears than relatively small Slovenia. There are, of course, other ways, there are professionally open questions about the introduction of vultures in the medium area of the brown bear, or the provision of a peaceful zone for the brown bear, the changed traffic regime on the road, the accelerated rehabilitation of wild landfills, or one of the key - we support the wood biomass project, so that one of the main objectives is to stop rural cultivation. For this den, these bears in the congregation of Cerknica, was only 200 m from the village, which is absolutely unnatural. And this is due to some reason, which is also called protection in the Republic of Slovenia. I will certainly continue as Minister [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I must say that what you said in the last part of the answer is, of course, what I consider to be a modest task of the Ministry is not the fault of the Minister, and the demands would be unjustified if tomorrow another attack, which may be tragic, could be fatal, and then the Minister's resignation would be required. The Minister's resignation must be required when the Ministry's conduct does not lead to the resolution of these problems. However, solving these problems is exactly what you mentioned at the end, and many more could be added. That's the key. The first part of your answer, of course, can and is nice to deal with these emotional notes, but if the Slovenians are aware of this and these responsibilities, even every day when we send children on unregulated roads, there are significantly more dangers to our children on roads where they are threatened by drunk drivers, a few hundred traffic victims per year, and many of these tragic stories are also blamed for poor, unregulated, opaque, unlit roads, roads without sidewalks. As far as bears are concerned, luckily we have a bear victim in Slovenia since World War II very little. And even in this tragic event, I see first and foremost this unfortunate gentleman, who will remain alive with this story. In order for his and similar stories, which we are afraid of, not to repeat, it is necessary to first introduce the exact method of counting the brown bear - we are significantly more exact than we have been before - to introduce not only the vultures, but the feeding grounds, because the bear is everywhere. When the burrows are close to the settlements, they are properly marked and protected and, of course, - I am not naive - the stock management of the bear without the rifle is not and will not be, but when the rifle is involved, it must interfere in accordance with [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Allow me to further answer some of your questions or other appearances. Of course, the question is, the key question is why the population of the brown bear in Slovenia has increased so much in the last decade, perhaps a few more years. This is a question that goes beyond just the field that I'm running. But together we need to understand that under such circumstances it is understandable that the fear of the bear has also increased. At the same time, of course, the population’s potential increase is mainly in these areas. I would like to point out that this is especially true for children who, when they leave for school or when they return home this afternoon after extra school activities and have no more transportation to school. That's the problem. Therefore, parents need to look for them in addition to their personal cars at school. And that's why it's also happening, maybe, I've also been supporting as many conversations as possible, issuing special gigibanks, etc., so that people's negative attitude towards bears would not increase, because, finally, in the past, when there were significantly fewer bears in these places, there was no such relationship. But it's not the people who live there, and thank God they insist on such environments, including young families. That is why I see my mission to ensure the safety of people and property, while at the same time not compromising the equilibrium of the brown bear population. And so far, no one has convinced me that fishing in recent years would endanger the condition of the brown bear population. This is a complicated situation in which we are, because the current size of the brown bear population clearly exceeds the number needed for the long-term preservation of the wild brown bear in Slovenia. The question is also raised whether the time has not come and our experts are now seriously considering reviewing the scope of the current definition of the central area of living space, as this space extends to some elements of the municipality of Ljubljana, which also has a part of the classical countryside. This also means that a perfectly legitimate and expected conflict situation in an urban centre may occur in the coming months. Remember the event in Škofljica or maybe in Brezovica and in the city of Ljubljana. Of course, I would like to reiterate my appreciation to this intervention group, which operates on the basis of a notification from the police and the information centre. I also have data on how many times it responded last year, but it always works on the basis of the laws in force, the regulations in force, and I am sure that there are also hunters who have all the necessary, ethical and other criteria for doing so. And, as I said earlier, when I mentioned thinking that some of the measures that had already been known were being gradually reintroduced, I would like to say why the vultures had stopped. [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Saiovic? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The longer we talk about this issue, the closer we are to a solution, the closer we are going to be to those resources that will regulate the bear stock, and those measures that are still possible in this story, then there will be much less incidents. I agree with Mr Minister, the bear in Ljubljana has nothing to look for. It is therefore necessary to organize in Slovenia, and once a final decision, where will be the limit within which we will keep the bear and what their number will be. As far as the vultures are concerned. Of course, the maggots were eliminated when the disease of crazy cows occurred in Europe. It is unacceptable to use a vulture to feed those animals that then end up on human dishes. But it seems more important to me in this story, it is much better that a hundred bears and their meat, their cadavers end up in the cafeterias than on the plates, and that we reintroduce the bear feeding grounds, where there will be not only an animal carrion, but also the remains of other food for the bear as a bear. Finally, this rod is not the same for all animals, and wild pigs are also intensively fed with the remains of cadavers of other animals, and have not yet been crossed from dining rooms. We agree on that. If we reintroduced feeding grounds, then the presence of bears on the edge of settlements, where they approach people for food, would undoubtedly reduce. I think we have had a good debate, which we can continue before the vote in the National Assembly. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to hold a debate before the vote, in accordance with Rule of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Saiovic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Dušan Kumer will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Jarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister and Minister, dear colleague and colleague! The Jablje Agricultural Experiment Centre was established over 45 years ago and, due to its specific tasks, maintained the status of a separate company until 2000, when the founders, the Agricultural Institute and the Biotechnical Faculty joined the Ministry of Agriculture and together they transformed the Apples into a public institution. Since then, however, Apples have been plagued by numerous complications and problems. The Statute was adopted instead of three months in three years. The Treaty referred to in Article 28 of the Treaty of Establishment, which should be signed within nine months, is not yet in force. And worst of all, in all seven years since the transformation into a public agency in Apples, he has never been appointed director, but they have been four or four performers. In doing so, it must be said that the work of reconstruction in the castle has been mainly done with the money of the Ministry of Agriculture in order to establish the headquarters of the administration of the Centre for Agricultural and Rural Development. To this end, Slovenia also received EUR 250 000 from the Phare programme. However, from the beginning of the renovation, it seems that it has been a whole different purpose, so, according to experts, most of the money has been invested in the renovation of the castle itself and not other objects, which could be a model transformation of the Apple property for educational and research purposes. Or as the retired professor of biotechnical university Dr. Habe put it, I quote: "They only rebuilt the castle and apparently arranged for Foreign Minister Rupel to have his lair there." End of quote. In short, the castle itself and obviously also some of the land and facilities in the immediate vicinity are more than obviously lost to the functioning of the Jablje Centre for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Development, as there has been an encampment of the foreign ministry and also some, I must say with my vocabulary, privileged private colleges, all under the auspices of the Presidency of the European Union. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: What is the status of the Apple Farm Test Centre today? Why did the Ministry of Agriculture in 2000 get into co-ownership? What were the tasks and visions of the development of the Apples at that time, and which of them have been fulfilled to this day? How do you view the fact that Apples operate without a director and when will you execute the call? What is today the long-term vision of the development of the Apples? At what points will you cooperate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and how will you provide research and development activities to Slovenian agriculture? Have you completely given up and given up the idea that there is a Centre for Agriculture and Rural Development in the Apples?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Biotechnological Faculty and the Agricultural Institute established a public institution in 2000 for the development of agriculture and rural Jablje in accordance with the law on institutions and thereby redesigned the former Agricultural Experiment Centre. Under the basic contract, if you allow me to fly it quickly, the activities of the institution include the following: offering the necessary research, education, advice and training facilities; then carrying out this education and practical training of farmers; carrying out development research, testing and testing of various technologies, varieties and breeds, demonstration experiments and demonstrations of their suitability and use; then offering technological support and business information to farms, businesses, consultants and users; planning development projects and programmes for farms, businesses and other organisations in this field; taking care of the public presentation of the establishment and the popularisation of its activities, the management of certain information systems, the provision of conditions for conducting field exercises in cooperation with the local community, the production and sale of agricultural products, reproductive materials and services. In 1999, due to the unresolved status of the centre and the potential developmental importance of the Centre for Slovenian Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food together with the founder and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber prepared the idea of a new centre and in 2000 signed the already mentioned contract on the transformation of the centre into a public institution. Since 2001, rehabilitation and reconstruction works have been carried out at the Jablje Castle in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and on municipal equipment, while restructuring of agricultural production, equipment with the most essential equipment and machinery and land recovery in the process of denationalisation. With the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Jablje Castle was transferred in 2006 only the Jablje Castle, transferred to the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With regard to the Director, I can say that, because of two unsuccessful public calls for the Director, the Council of the Centre appointed the Acting Director, who also manages the work of the Centre. The Council of the Public Institute has carried out all formal procedures for the opening of a public invitation to tender for the post of Director of the Jablje Centre and will shortly publish this invitation to tender. In 2006, the valuation of the assets of the Jablja Centre was also carried out in order to enable the founders to complete the contract of conversion into work where the founders of the contract must establish mutual rights and obligations of the Centre. With regard to the long-term vision, I can say that the Jablje Castle was transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in agreement with the founders. That cooperation with the IHR and the Centre for the European Future can be complementary and synergistic for the implementation of projects within the EU with other international organisations and countries, in particular from the area of South-Eastern Europe. A proposal for the most appropriate status and organisational form of the Jablje Centre is currently being prepared with its co-founders. At the same time, co-founders and other stakeholders are also preparing a development vision of the Centre, which in its design could still maintain educational, experimental and formal research activities in this area. The material on this subject has already been prepared in the draft. The Jablje Centre, together with its founders, Mengeš municipality and other users of the premises in Jablja, was the Centre for the European Future and KIZ in 2006 looking for solutions to the possibility of co-existence and cooperation between the institutions operating in the Apples and planning a new urban design, but final harmonisation and the beginning of the construction of this municipal site plan has not yet come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you. Do you want to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I think it's not just procedural, I think, to say, breaches of that basic idea, but it's also some things that aren't that simple. Your colleague, Minister Zupan, has repeatedly stressed the need to reduce and increase enrolment in social schools. In this case, in the Apple Castle itself, we have a case where this emphasis turns into a contradiction. So, the Faculty of Biotech doesn't have this option, but they have two private social skills, and I told privileged college this opportunity and this opportunity. In addition to the fact that the Centre itself works, as you said, also the Centre for the European Future, which received 150 million for its operation last year and so on, my scepticism and my question still remain: Will there be a vision in this area of the entire Apple estate that there is a Centre for Development for Agriculture and Rural Development, this central centre, will there not? That's my central question. And second. In view of the fact that this is a private college, if you can provide me with a written answer: How many external resources were brought to this institution for lectures in the elite of Lichtemberg last year or to the earl’s chamber?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, with regard to your basic question, I can say that the experimental areas of the implementation centres in the field of agricultural research are relatively limited, but together with the other co-founders we are looking for solutions regarding the status and content of the institution. As I mentioned earlier, these solutions in the draft work are already ready. And we will answer your written question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u89	In view of the fact that this second part of the answer was a very dignitary, I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, we vote on this in the National Assembly to hold a special debate, in particular, I will quote the common position of both the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering and, I think, of all other stakeholders, as follows: "The apple is irreplaceable as an experimental infrastructure centre for Slovenia, in which both the professional, research, teaching and advisory and demonstration activities of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, the Agricultural and Economics Chambers, institutions of civil society are held for the purposes of all Slovenia. For such an activity, this Jablje centre needs all the land and the necessary administrative rooms, laboratories, economic facilities and appropriate infrastructure. Apples are very representative of the Slovenian agro-climate situation, they are close to all institutions. And so on. With Jablje Castle itself and with some land and infrastructure around the castle itself, a day for protocol purposes, this objective and this vision will be difficult to achieve in the same area. I think of myself and many others, and think that the basic purpose of this property should be devoted to what much of the money from the budget and, last but not least, the European funds have been invested in it. I therefore propose once again that we vote on this and that the National Assembly hold a debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Kumer to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. And Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the Ambassador to the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Thus, on 20 March, the Globes and the Environment Protection Council organised a joint consultation on the theme "Problems and Perspectives of Water Management in Slovenia". The consultation is also attended by the most prominent representatives of the water economy profession, but unfortunately, Mr Minister, the invited senior officials of the Ministry of Environment and Space, including you, have been missing. The consultation highlighted a number of issues relating to water management and management issues and clearly rejected the illusion that Slovenia is a country that does not have excessive water problems and water supply for both industrial agriculture and household care. The data showed worrying trends concerning the state and outlook of water balance in Slovenia. On this issue, Mr Minister, let me draw attention to only one trend: lowering the average annual flows of rivers and increasing the extreme, highest and lowest flows during the drought or flood period. All of this requires the State to act on a long-term basis and, above all, water retention measures. These measures, Mr. Minister, are not. I therefore ask you: What will you do to create a comprehensive, coherent and long-term water management and management policy? In order to answer this question more easily, I ask you questions such as: Do you think that Slovenia would need a specific document that would define at the level of the National Assembly the basic elements of water policy and also provide an appropriate value and regulatory framework for managing this important natural resource? And a second time. Are you preparing water retention measures that have a multifunctional effect, from the anti-floating function, providing quantities for water use, enriching streams, groundwater, etc.? What are these measures? And by the way, what's going on with the Fallout Accumulation? That's what I ask you every year. The Water Act also provides for the establishment of councils and water conferences, which are suspended with no explanation of the Ministry's decision, while at the same time preparing planning and management plans for floods. And I ask you, Mr Minister: Would it not be right at a time when you are preparing these plans to activate forms of public and stakeholder participation in this process of making these plans? And: Do you intend to activate this sacred and water conference before you intend? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u93	With regard to the water problem, the Member is running out of time and will also run out of time for the Minister to answer such a question. If I were to start from behind or forward, I would like to say that just a few days ago, a good week, we had a very important meeting somewhere outside Ljubljana of all those people who are professionally, operationally, also procedurally looking over the water issue in Slovenia and who belong to my work circle. The meeting was good. I also have before me a work programme to prepare water management plans in the Adriatic Sea, of course in the Danube area, and here we have clearly agreed and talked a great deal about this issue that you are opening up to attract stakeholders and the public to the process of producing these plans and that the quality of the plans would also improve and reduce tensions and conflicts between advocates of different uses of water. Absolutely this is our approach, we talked about how this process, what is the role of the congregations, the role of the profession, the role of NGOs. In this place, of course, an official or informal invitation to GLOBU, the Environmental Protection Council will be involved in any way that it is active here. There was a slight embarrassment that just the day you called this important meeting, I was alone with my colleagues already on a visit to the Government in Primorska and that was the only reason that I did not come, I assure you. For such a meeting and conversation would be with great joy. Of course, not myself or my colleagues do not live in an illusion that you said was clearly rejected, that Slovenia is one of those lucky countries that do not have too many water problems and provide sufficient water for different uses from agriculture and industry to the care of households. It would be a big mistake to live in such an illusion. I can also assure you that Slovenia lives in the midst of European legal standards and directives in the field of water management, which is even a number of them and their key task is to ensure the well-being of all water bodies in the Republic of Slovenia. On your particular question, do you think that Slovenia would need a special document that would define at the level of the National Assembly the basic elements of water policy - it is not necessary but would not harm further. But we have just, look, so many European directives, even if I mention only a framework water directive and all the rest, some are already complete, and others will be transposed into the Slovenian legal order so that it is not necessary for a specific document to be adopted at the level of the National Assembly to enter into this procedure. On your second question is whether we are preparing water retention measures that have a multifunctional effect, anti-floating function, providing quantities for water use, enriching streams, groundwater - the answer is: yes. Of course, in a sustainable way and also through eco-remediation procedures. If I just remember the project, say, the Dravinje River, the famous Slovenian watercourse, which has more, I would say, elements. And the anti-flooding function, as well as the enrichment of the flow, and partly of the groundwater, will be one of those that we will also try to solve with the help of European cohesion money. In a similar way, we are facing the anti-floating security of Savinja or the southwestern part of Ljubljana. Not to mention the sensitive issue of the Mura River; how to keep as much water potential as possible in the Republic of Slovenia, thereby raising the groundwater, which is dangerously reduced, thereby allowing quantities to be irrigated, thus allowing good locations for tourism development, and not least, if it shows up with a barrier that will be nicely placed in the space, perhaps even a kilowatt hour of electricity. You're asking me what's going on with the Fallout Accumulation. This is where I carry my predecessor's baton. That baton's not easy. I have to do my best to keep it from falling off my hands, but I hope it doesn't fall on me. As some additional professional questions have arisen, we will try with a high-quality professional objective opinion to cut off all the issues that are mainly related to the quantity and only the method of this investment, because it is a very high resource, and then, of course, with this project, which will receive cohesion money, move on. The build-up project will solve the drinking water issue in Slovenian Krass for many years, especially [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in Slovenian Istria. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u95	Mr Minister, I must honestly say that some of the elements in your reply have satisfied me and that I am pleased to hear them from your mouth. I am glad that there is no illusion about water rich Slovenia, but a step further needs to be taken. To do something to ensure sufficient water in the future, and it is right to refer to the good condition of the water bodies. However, I remind you that this good condition relates to the biological and chemical state and less to the state of the water balance. I therefore stress again and again: until recently, the European Union has forced and guided us in the field of water protection against pollution and water purification. She wasn't dealing with water balance issues. This issue is still open. Secondly, as regards the opinion that we do not need a specific document, here I will say in particular that I do not agree with this. I think we need him. That the sub-chapter in the national environmental protection programme is too small. In particular, such a document should define the main measures in this area. We don't have to define them now. Around Padrež I would say, above all, that the baton has been too long for two and a half years now and should stop referring to the transitional runner. So I'm actually asking you: Will this investment be possible in this plan? Won't it fall out of your hands? Because if it is, then the water problem in Primorska can be a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thanks for the extra question. He'll do anything to keep my baton from falling out of my hands as far as I'm concerned, I assure you. And I assure you, personally, as Minister, I've been very involved that this will not happen. But typical Slovenian, here the profession is partly divided. As with some other questions, it is also necessary to answer the question here, above all, whether it is also necessary to do so. This is one of the most important investments in the field of drinking resources in Slovenia, most likely. But I'm sure she's justified. Second. About the water balance. We're right here on the same shore. We have not yet mentioned any process that is actually crucial and defines a variety of actions. These are climate change. And these trends, which you are talking about and concern the state and outlook of water balance, which are reflected in lowering the average annual flows of rivers, but at the same time we are seeing an increase in the extremes of the highest and lowest flows during the flood period or extreme droughts, which requires swift action by countries, including the European Union. Finally, one of the directives that speaks in part about this topic is now being concluded. And that's why there are key elements that talk about water retention measures. I would also like to inform you here, as it is already known that for objective reasons, he is the current State Secretary of Mag. Starman went to my minister on the left, to Dr. Zhagar, this function was taken over by a great expert in the field of leadership, mag. Bricel, and I will be very helpful here also at the professional level. If I mention only some of the measures that are linked to those rivers that connect us to neighbouring countries, that is also how European money can be obtained for such measures. Also important is the condition of groundwater, which you have also talked about. As the conclusion of the presidency of the Barcelona Convention, with good cooperation between the Adriatic Sea basins and the Danube basin, we have received confirmation that there will be a large international expert meeting in Slovenia this November to discuss cases of good practice in Slovenia on the quality of groundwater in the Republic of Slovenia. This meeting will be attended by the top representatives of the profession and the European Union and can show Slovenia a lot of things here, and on the other hand it can learn a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Gantar, do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u99	That's right, Mr. President. I have a proposal to hold a debate on this answer to the question referred under Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to justify this in two, three words, especially to a small number of colleagues from the coalition. This initiative is not primarily aimed at setting up a minister here as an object to be checked, reviewed and criticized for water policy, one way or another, but rather at taking advantage of this opportunity in order to respond to and deal with certain matters that we will never deal with at the level of the National Assembly, because they will not come to us. And that's actually the first question about our waters and what it is [[This was one of the main themes of this consultation]] It is happening with water in the light of climate change, as it is already happening and as it is expected. For all of us, water seems to be self-evident, but it isn't! Therefore, I really suggest that we use this institution to discuss the answer to the question, so that we can discuss these issues at some future meeting and see if we have any common ground - I think we have - with which to draw up a country's policy in this area in the coming years. That is why it applies mainly to colleagues from the coalition, I hope you will accept this, because I think it is good for both the government and the minister and for us. We can't act too long like there's no such thing as a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Gantar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Sašo Pece will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u101	Respectable present. Given that the content of any reply from the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, is given in form and content, this is the fault of the previous government; this is the result of the work of the previous government, or not least - 'this was done by the previous government', allow me to start my question with the position of the current government, with the view of the sent-out groups forming today's government. The fact is that during the previous term, so your political option, i.e. the SDS, has always and strictly supported the Slovenian National Party, after the abolition of membership in various institutional aspects, I can say with the same certainty that you have changed your thinking on compulsory membership into completeness; that the values that have been at your heart, especially in the words - and today only in the words - that you have changed them. Allow me, however, to touch upon my question of mission, which I have addressed to you twice in writing. I also received an answer to this once, but I admit, I could not believe that you signed under the content that is so contrary to the law in force in the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to inform you, the Slovenian public and present Members of the 70th section of the Medical Chamber Act or, I apologize, 70th article of the Medical Service Act, in its 7th chapter, this is the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which says: "Membership in the Chamber is mandatory for all who perform medical services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia." The second paragraph: "Membership in the Chamber is voluntary - I stress voluntarily" for doctors: for the first time who do not perform medical services; for the second time, those who perform medical services outside the Republic of Slovenia have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, for the third time who are retired and for the fourth time who are unemployed". Among them, Mr Minister, given that I believe in the content of your answer, I stress that "Membership is voluntary for doctors who are retired." The Medical Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia or the Medical Chamber of Slovenia sends a decision on the level of membership of the Chamber to all, including retired doctors. And when I have received your answer, Mr Minister, to this question, of course, you are to a large extent defending your answer and advocating that mandatory membership should also continue for retired doctors. Please, in the first part, give me the content of your reflection on this work of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which is in particular contrary to the Medical Chamber Act. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u103	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have indeed answered this question in writing, Mr Pečet. On this occasion, I have to say again that this is a doctor's room as a special subject, if I may say so, in this country. In fact, you all know that the chamber has played a huge, important role in its medical history and that the chamber was banned in the 50s of the previous regime. The Medical Chamber could not be set up, except by way of independence, the Medical Chamber was reestablished and is of great importance for the entire work in the field of health. As far as compulsory membership in the Medical Chamber is concerned, this has already been the subject of the Constitutional Court's judgment. In 1993, the Constitutional Court adopted the view that compulsory merger in the Medical Chamber does not constitute a restriction on the right to insurance. Article 42(2) of the Constitution provides that the legislator may establish a mandatory form of merger of doctors who work directly with patients in the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, and this is also happening all the time. The legislator did it in the Medical Services Act. Article 70 of this Act also provides that doctors who do not work directly with patients may voluntarily be members of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. Now I will not explain everything you have already established under article 70 of the Medical Service Act. Hence, it may be that membership for full-time doctors is not compulsory, nor is it now. Among the members of the Medical Chamber are only those fully retired doctors who have expressed their will to be members of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. This includes a decision setting the amount of the membership fee for full-time doctors who are members of the Chamber. Those full-blown doctors who have decided to exercise the right under this 70th Article of the Medical Service Act and have made a statement that they wish to resign from the Chamber are, of course, not obliged to pay membership fees and are not members of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. In this regard, I must also say that what you find is not actually being implemented in practice, so in principle doctors who are fully retired do not pay membership fees if they do not want to. On the basis of other legal provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services, published on 9.5.2006, it also provided for the membership of these retired doctors who wish to remain in the Medical Chamber. On this basis, and in accordance with these provisions, a decision was taken at the meeting of the Assembly of Chambers to set the amount of membership for those retired doctors who are voluntarily in the Medical Chamber at a flat rate of EUR 23 per year. Twenty-three euros a year. However, it should be added that retired doctors have all the same rights as other members of the Chamber, irrespective of the substantially lower level of membership fee for active doctors. I must say that they are also receiving a very good ISIS message, and I think that this is one of the best messages issued in the various chambers, and all pensioners receive it for 23 euros a year. So it's not about any mandatory membership, it's about legal voluntary membership and legal membership, which is extremely low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Nice greeting to everyone and colleague Peca probably wants to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you. With these answers, of course, it becomes clear to me why things in health care are as they are. Why the Oncology Institute still doesn't work - because of your perception of the content, because of your exaggeration and not least because of the complete distortion of the truth. That's not true! It is a lie, a grave and rude lie, Mr. Minister, on your part, when you say that the members of the Medical Chamber are the only retired doctors who have identified themselves. It's a grave lie that you've said a little earlier and that you've attached to it now. Retired doctors were not asked whether they wanted to be members of the Medical Chamber or not. And despite the fact that the Government - no Government or the Medical Chamber of this inquiry have not done so, the Medical Chamber sends a decision on membership. It is true that in the flat-rate amount, let me also say that the flat-rate amount that you are, of course, creating or displaying as a minimum, increased by 400% compared to last year, says the following. Full-time doctors pay the membership fee after receipt of the bill within the time limit set at the special post. In the event that the membership is not paid within this period, a compulsory recovery will be carried out in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure. Mr Minister, you are obliged to ensure the legal work of the Medical Chamber, not those who are working in clear contradiction with the Medical Services Act, which collect memberships from those who are strictly stated that they are not mandatory members of article 70, give them pause. In my opinion, it is your duty as the first in the field of health to ensure that this Chamber [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] works in accordance with the law. [[...]] And this is expected of you; not by defending them in every way. And once again, you have received from me a decision already issued in the past, and on your part are only words, but never shown that the Medical Chamber [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u107	Now, I'm not going down to that level of lying and not lying. I have here the information I received at the Medical Chamber that retired doctors are voluntarily in the Chamber and that, on the basis of this volunteering, decisions are also sent to pay the membership fee. I don't really know how to answer that anymore. I just have information that it's legal and that it's actually done under the Medical Services Act. I checked this several times at the chamber, not just once, so I don't think there's anything else I can answer here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece obviously has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Of course, it's easy and probably very nice to be a minister who insists on his own and doesn't know how to look into the situation. It is probably one of the most beautiful services within our society, unless, of course, one wonders whether it works humanely, whether it works in accordance with the law, and whether institutions such as oncological institutes are set up. But as much as you don't care about all this, then we can get an answer like that so you won't go down to the level of the question I gave you. Mr. Minister, I tell you again, regardless of your nodding, it is not true that at any time the Medical Chamber - please ask them too, because your subordinates - have checked with full-time doctors whether they want to be members of the Medical Chamber or not. Otherwise, the perception of your content, if I agree with it, is about as much as it would say that the state will suddenly prescribe membership to all citizens and citizens for membership in the Republic of Slovenia, and it will issue a decision that, if they do not pay these memberships, they will be forcibly recovered, only later on, the Prime Minister would say, "Yes, because they have not stepped out of this!" According to my assessment, once again, Mr Minister, the decisions on the amount of the paid membership fee or the decision on the amount of the membership fee, as well as the notification of the payment of the membership fee, the document which I did not mention, in no way do the retired, full-blown doctors have the right to be defined for membership. You took that right away from them. [[Mr. Vice President, you know I have another minute at my disposal. Thank you.]] You took that right from them, of course. You have deprived them of the right to define themselves, and in your reply you agree and give a positive opinion to the Chamber, which I stress once again, works in a typical way contrary to Article 70 of the Act. In this connection, Mr President, I would like to refer to you the proposal to hold a debate in the framework of the National Assembly on the "false" response of Minister Bručan on the functioning of the healthcare system and the Medical Chamber. If the Minister is unable to check his subordinates, what is the functioning of the Medical Chamber, and if he is completely concerned and swings his hand, then it should not matter to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you very much. As usual and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the context of the vote. Let's keep asking questions. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u111	Dear colleagues and colleagues, those who are in the hall, and also those who accompany the meeting in their rooms! My procedural proposal is that, Comrade Marko Pavlich, you do not hold a meeting of the National Assembly, not for a moment. I will not state the reasons for this, because I think you know for yourselves that for the reputation of the National Assembly, it is important for Parliamentarianism in Slovenia to be represented by people who have not failed their constituents who have not changed their vote. If this moment cannot be done by the National Assembly for formal reasons, you can do it yourself, Mr Marko Pavliha. Ethicality is over formal matters. I hope that you will take my procedural proposal into account and reconsider it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Gulic. Unfortunately, I must give priority to governance and to the rules of procedure over ethics and to my own definition. As you know, the college has decided on this. Tomorrow's special agenda item is my discharge, you will vote on it in the evening and, of course, then my fate will be as it will be. At this point, if I were to resign from this position, it would have resulted in the suspension of the functioning of the National Assembly, and unfortunately I cannot do so. So I give the floor to Mr Kokalj, who will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much for the opportunity to continue the session. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far begun to normalise and open its relationship to the national body living outside the borders of its home country with considerable support from the parliamentary parties. This attitude is very positive in view of the semi-precious treatment and also in view of the prominent position of Slovenia's independent country in Europe as well as in the world. This and good cooperation with the Slovenians, which in many cases are, we can say, an excellent bridge with the outside world, this moment also confirms. The global situation of a country such as Slovenia encourages a good and stable position in the world, both politically, economically and culturally. I therefore point out the legislation adopted in this mandate, the fundamental law on Slovenians in place and around the world, the law on elections to the National Assembly, and the law on electoral records, or on the register of electoral law. I would like to ask: How is it that the entry of Slovenian citizens living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia is updated to the register of electoral rights in accordance with the last-mentioned law? And: Are there any problems? If they're-- what? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u114	Please, Mr. Secretary. [[He's not here.]] Excuse me! The answer to the question will thus be given to you at the next meeting. I am holding this meeting because the next question to be asked is the question put by Mr Pavlich. That is why I ask him to present his question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I hope I'm allowed to do that. From this new town, a nice greeting to everyone. Of course, also welcome to Minister Jarc on the first questions sent. A good 16 years ago, this was adopted by the three congregations in this Chamber of Democracy at that time by some sort of "maritime bible" - a resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, binds Slovenia to the maritime direction and, among other things, commits the country to deliberately promote a variety of food production from the sea in the form of aquaculture, fishing, salt water and could also be listed. Unfortunately, after its independence, sea fishing has experienced quite a number of unfortunate circumstances that put it in an increasingly difficult position. First, due to the decline in the fishing zone, the average annual fishing is now around 1700 tonnes per year, and by 1991 this number was 6000 tonnes. D secondly - one of the reasons is overfishing, for in some way the fishermen themselves sawed their own branch, which they were sitting on, because of this overfishing. Thirdly, there are political reasons. In fact, the country has known something, through all this period of stepmotherly behaviour, with rare exceptions to fishing, the positive adoption of the law on sea fishing is negative, for example, that we have managed to draw only around 72% of the funds from the European Professional Funds for the period 2004-2006 for Slovenian fisheries. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, for the first time: what are the reasons for such a relatively claurine withdrawal from the European funds? How much, along with domestic participation, did these funds amount to? And how much share was spent for this, and for what purposes? The second question is: How and for what purposes does Slovenia intend to spend €21.6 million from the new European Fisheries Assistance Mechanism under the new financial perspective from 2007 to 2013? What concrete measures will the Ministry take in this area? In particular because of the non-recurrence of the drawback problem as in the period 2004 - 2006? And I also wonder: What will be the own domestic funds for their own participation? Because it's running out of time to be the first part of my question, of course. However, an additional answer or additional questions were received in the second part, but you also received them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Jarc, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will answer the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, dear Dr. Pavlich. I thank you for the very important question. So, with regard to the first question, I can assure you, according to the RS Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, that the funds will be spent. In fact, two measures have been implemented in the framework of the EPD - Single Programming Document in the period 2004-2006: one is the modernisation of existing vessels and small coastal fisheries and the other is aquaculture, processing and marketing. According to the data I received, these funds totalled around EUR 2 million 400 000, of which Slovenia provided slightly more than 20%. As I have already said on the basis of the contracts signed between the Agency and the final recipients, several more funds have been committed, totalling around EUR 2 million and a half. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has also carried out all measures to improve the use of resources in terms of information points, brochures, advertisements, newspapers and so on. This is said, during this financial period, at least according to my information, the existing available funds are expected to be exhausted, but not all of them have been indicated because all contracts were at different stages. With regard to funds in the new budget period, for which I find for the first time that they are finally relatively large enough for this area to be made, the situation is such that, by a decision of the European Commission of October 2006, Slovenia was allocated around €21 million at current prices, and Slovenia has to add some 7 million more to these funds. We intend to co-finance 4 so-called axes, one is the adaptation of the fishing fleet, fishing vessels, small coastal fisheries; the other is aquaculture, processing and marketing; the third is joint measures, fishing ports, the place of landing, shelter, the development of new markets, advertising campaigns and the fourth is the sustainable development of fishing areas, the acquisition of skills, the promotion of the preparation and implementation of development strategies and so on and technical assistance. One of the main measures in this regard is the advertising campaign, which is detailed in the operational programme and will begin before the operational programme is officially approved. With regard to budgetary resources by the Republic of Slovenia - unfortunately, at this time we are not yet providing all the funds and I will therefore personally support this area, so that we can co-finance the funds already provided by the European Union in an appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Just a few short yet important additions. First of all, do you also care about how to increase the overall consumption of fish in Slovenia, perhaps in cooperation with your colleague Bručan? In fact, let me tell you something scary. The average consumption of fish on Slovenia or Slovenia per year is about 5 kilograms. Let me give you another information, the Spaniards eat as many as 22 kilograms per inhabitant. We all know that this is a significantly healthier form of nutrition. Second. I wonder: When will the Regulation on the financing and co-financing of the development of marine and freshwater fisheries for 2007 be adopted and how much resources will be allocated for measures in sea fisheries? And how much funding will be earmarked for around 100 actions of the common agricultural policy in Slovenia this year? Then I also wonder: When will two very important documents be adopted? The first is the National Strategic Plan for the Development of Fisheries in the Republic of Slovenia in the period 2007-2013 and the second is the Operational Programme for the Development of Fisheries in the Republic of Slovenia in the same period. These drafts are already on your website. I wonder, are you also in line with the fishermen? The last question is: In addition to these documents, are you planning other short- and medium-term measures for the long-term survival of marine fisheries in Slovenia? You know, we could say, and we also drew this on our backs, that we're on the sea side of Triglav, that we're a sea country. But one of the key activities that proves this is, of course, fishing. Therefore, we need to give him further attention with our collective strength. Thank you very much, not only for the answers, but also for the action.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u120	Mr. Secretary, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much for the additional questions. With regard to the advertising action, I can say that it is envisaged under the operational programme. The aim of this measure is also to increase the consumption of fish and fishery and aquaculture products per capita on the Slovenian market. We anticipate that in 2007 this campaign will be launched on the basis of a call for proposals. The Regulation on the financing and co-financing of marine and freshwater fisheries for 2007 and 2008 was adopted at a meeting of the Government of 1.3.2007 and published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 1219/2007 of 2.3.2007 The funds are intended to carry out biological sampling of catches in the area of marine fisheries, the funds are approximately €72,000; the establishment of the place of first sale of fish and fishery products in accordance with the common fisheries policy; the funds amount to approximately €84,000; and the issuance of periodicals and periodicals in this area; the funds are provided at €42,000. Of course, it will be necessary to release funds from the EU, as you yourself mentioned; to complete work on the National Strategic Plan for the Development of Fisheries and on the Operational Programme. With regard to the national strategic plan, I can say that it was prepared, in cooperation with all the social partners, following the Ministry's assurance that different workshops have been carried out, for example with marine fishermen on 10.3.2006 in Isola; that public hearings have been carried out and so on. The national strategic plan has been formally forwarded to the European Commission and is currently in the stage of consideration in this institution. The operational programme is currently in the draft phase. In preparation, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and the Office for the Conservation of Diversification in the Development of Maritime Economic Fisheries were involved. The operational programme, as you yourself said, has been published on the website. It was also presented to the working group for the preparation of the operational programme. I hope we can accept it in the next few months. With regard to other measures, I think there was also a very short question. In addition to the above, the Ministry intends to introduce assistance in the establishment and operation of the producer organisation, and in accordance with European and Slovenian legislation, it will also be able to provide funds under the so-called ‘deminis system’ relating to state aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pecan will raise the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Janez Podobnik. Two years ago, I asked you a question about the award of concessions for the implementation of the compulsory public economic service to measure, inspect and clean combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts for the protection of the environment, the efficient use of energy, the protection of human health and the protection against fire, after the domestic chimney service. At that time, the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, delayed the granting of concessions, accounts in the form of dissatisfaction of users, and continued sending complaints to the municipal address were paid, or at that time I was, we were, we were, we were, we were paying the mayors and the municipal administration. As it is said, more than two years have passed since then, chimney companies or individual chimneys have obtained concessions, the Government has adopted and published a decision setting tariffs for the prices of compulsory public economic services with three annexes containing a detailed description of the necessary time and value of individual activities to be carried out by an authorised chimney smoker on the chimneys and airbags, so that the user can be as safe and environmentally friendly as possible during the winter period. Everything is nice and good, but in Isola - I think Isola is not the right congregation, where people only need to gnash or neglect - in last year, just four months after the government's decision came out, there was one death-related flue gas poisoning and another that almost caused the loss of another young life. At the same time, the users of the compulsory public service are in no way satisfied with the work of the concessionaire designated by the Government as the only possible contractor for the area of that municipality. They complain in particular about the non-conformity of their actual work - it is said, the scope of the work, including the time and price - with the standard times and values of the individual services set out in the annexes to the earlier Decision. Thus, the only response to the complaint made by the administrator of one of the residential blocks in Livada in Isola against the conduct of the concessionary workers addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Space was that the Directorate for European Affairs and Investments - what this has to do with chimneys, it is unclear to me - a complaint relating to poor work, cleaning of combustion plants, airmen, chimneys, etc. Who in your ministry, Mr. Minister, is responsible for the supervision of the performance of the chimney service, both qualitative and priced? And where should the service users from your designated concessionaires turn when they are not satisfied with their services, given that the answers are received again through the concessionaires themselves? So, sort of in style. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] "kadia sued, kadia sued." [[...]] And I'll keep asking you the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Ambassador Brad Pecanov. I'll take my turn. I hope I can answer some questions. I have a concession contract for this company, EDT Izola. Article 16 states - sets out user complaints: "The Concendant undertakes to inform the concessionaire in writing of any objections or complaints made by users. In case of dissatisfaction with the quality or accounting of services, the candidate will instruct users to object first to the concessionaire and only in the event of an unsatisfactory response to the competent ministry or to the competent inspectorate." That's the first part of the answer. The second part is tied to our organization. Under the Regulation on the Organisation and Systematisation of Jobs at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the chimney public service, which has come to our house since 1.1.2005, has been defined as one of the environmental protection services in the public environmental services sector. And since this sector is included in this Directorate, it is systematized here, so this is the connection, so we have a sector for public environmental services and mags. Bernard Podlipnikov and her associates are just legal addresses or persons if they turn to us in this case. I'd like to say one more thing. Here I have all the data that has been happening for the last two years, whose concessions have been granted immediately in this first round, then, of course, we followed the additional procedure, it is known - mandatory interpretation, Constitutional Court. We've done a lot of work, I hope we've done a lot of good. We gave, say, 43 positive decisions last October and 59 we rejected or rejected them and so on, I can provide you with accurate information. But I would like to answer this tragic case. Of course, we reacted very responsibly when this happened. The supervision of the operation of this company has been established through various inspection services to their answers, including the Court of Auditors has turned to us and requested all data relating to financial and other business, in this case also these chimney services, and we have already given all data to the Court of Auditors. However, there is another issue related to the administrative authorisation procedure. If you don't mind, I'd answer that question. In fact, in this case, in the case of Isola, it is necessary to say - who is responsible for the proper use of the facility and its regular and careful maintenance: only the owner! So what is an instrument of usability, that's what this is about. Because these owners in this block had a usable permit, the facilities must be used for the purpose and in the manner specified in the building permit. And he was in the proven procedure of issuing a usable permit. If, at the time of the use of the facility, due to the changed method of use, for example, the changed heating method - and let's say, it was different from that originally established at the time of the issue of the usable permit - there was a risk of a direct threat to stay in such a facility, it should be established what had led to this situation. Whoever did this to make a case there happen automatically, self-initiatively, that's the key question. In the event that the facility has to be reconstructed in order to remedy the deficiencies, a building permit must be obtained and, after completion of the reconstruction, a usable permit must be obtained. These are procedures that are issued at the request of the investor. That's what's going on now. Nevertheless, I will propose that in the amendments to the building law, certain competences of already defined co-operators should be limited and that this consensus should be transferred to certain expert levels, particularly on the issue of the implementation of measurements, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke ducts and air ducts for the protection of the environment and so on. The lady will most likely ask, and then I will answer further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I see you're already quite familiar with the practice of the National Assembly. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask two sub-questions, which are essentially the same. You have already answered that other question that I had prepared, that is, regarding the safety of these areas where the fires, the combustion plants that are powered by butane-propane are used, and for which the Faculty of Engineering ordered by the municipality of Izola about a year and a half ago, two years ago found that it was not the misuse of the combustion plants, Mr. Minister, but that it was the wrong operation of the chimneys which, because of the lack of the right tow, threatened or could occur the leakage of carbon monoxide into the space in which the combustion plant works, which is unfortunately the bathroom, and that is why this happened what happened. That's why it's a question. In fact, 20 years ago, a license was issued. I can accept as the fact that the combustion plant may be exhausted and that anything should be done. That's what the chimney service should be warning you about. What if the combustion plant is totally fine, if everything else is fine, but here is the problem with the performance itself? But the second question is that I was talking about your ministry having to control the concessionaire if your annexes to the decision say that they have to spend about 67 minutes to clean and measure smoke emissions in one of these chickens, and they spend 15 of them, and they charge 67. So there is now a question that also disturbs these people, it is said, one rather banal question, and the other, of course, is of vital importance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u128	Thank you. Minister Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I agree with you, especially this first question, which touches on human security, is very serious. So that we wouldn't go into the details, but according to the data I got, in this case there was also a self-initiative change to some of the devices in this facility. Therefore, the question arises whether such a usable permit is still valid in this case. Of course, this is now a story for back, inspection and other services, and the authorities will find their own here, but I think that the law on the regulation of facilities is a real opportunity to try to solve this issue of the responsibility of those, as well as the expertise of the one who is the judge. However, citizens here are right about the tariff on service prices, and now the bad year is over or 6 months, which is in force, and according to the conclusion now the time has come for us to review the situation on the ground, also to propose some changes to this tariff for service prices. This change is ready, comes soon to the government and will be adopted, slightly different, and I can assure you that citizens and citizens will be a little more pleased with it. Of course, this does not mean that we do not appreciate the quality of the professional work of chimneys and professions, it is also the issue of education of smokers, and also the issue of energy saving of buildings and the quality of smoke and other devices. Here is also an opportunity for a professional at home in this area, and we will do everything possible to enable this profession to come into force with appropriate legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, let me state the date of no error, 11.4.2006 was promulgated by the Act on the Proclamation of the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos. So, 11.4.2006. Why don’t you allow or why don’t you make sure that this law is implemented? The second date that I quote is 24.1.2007, when representatives of the SABS liaison announced themselves in your office. But unfortunately you wrote, "We can't accept you, you will be accepted by the current and then Secretary of State." The letter was signed by Marjetka Polajner, head of the cabinet. Dear Minister, I believe that you know the law, I believe that you know what it says in Article 2, that these rights that are enshrined in the law are justified by persons who have been employed or who are still employed in societies that eliminate either the consequences of working with asbestos or have been employed in societies in the past. It is known that this is now prohibited production. If we look at Article 12, Article 12 clearly states that the resources for the work of an authorised doctor are provided by the budget for verification and medical expertise. I hope you know what you're doing. By your conduct, you are preventing this disease from being verified and by your behaviour you are also preventing the treatment of these patients. I'd like to give you 90 days, Your Honor Minister, because you're new to the government, and perhaps you don't understand this issue. But when it comes to people when they die, there is no time. And that's what you should know if you've been warned. Today, people also die because they are a waiting line. My friend died because he didn't come in for heart surgery, and no one cares. And you do this out of negligence with patients with asbestos disease. This disease has a long latent period. We have adopted a law in this National Assembly and please, if you can tell me right here in front of all my colleagues and colleagues and even the Slovenian public why you do not respect this law. Get away from this responsibility, and people are dying. This is not a national act, we have not confirmed you for this and you have not been given a mandate to act so irresponsiblely. I'm sorry, I can't find any other words. And if the sentence says the new broom sweeps well when it's new, then please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you for asking. Madam Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Under the Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Asbestos Work, a Commission for the Elimination of Asbestos was established in October 2006. At the end of 2006 and at the beginning of 2007, this Commission eliminated all the backlogs that occurred in four to five years. By transferring powers to the Ministry of Economy, we also received unspent funds of SIT 130 million and EUR 542 thousand 480.39. From October to the end of 2006, 39 compensation agreements totalling 407 thousand 573,86 euros and 97,5 million SIT were successfully concluded. This year, 19 compensations totalling SIT 75 million and 315 thousand 804.11 euros were already paid. In the first days of April, the next payment was planned for five injured persons totalling 60 thousand 299,22 euros and 14.5 million SITs. From the date on which the Commission was appointed to date, it has held eight sessions, together with 97 applications, and there is no backlog in its work. However, all current applications will be dealt with and paid in early April, so that we resolve all applications from the outside and are on the ongoing application resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, he wants to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u135	I just can't believe it. I asked you a question, but I got a completely different answer. I asked you, Madam Minister, once again: Why do you not allow respect for this law and the implementation of this law, which was passed in this National Assembly on 11.4.2006? I submit that Article 12 states that funds from the budget for expertise and disease detection are provided from the budget. I didn't ask you about so-called damages. But if you want, I'll tell you how you pay for it. Look, you don't know that, but you won't be able to say you don't know that. For Salonit Anhovo, 2 billion 800 went from the state budget to remedy these consequences. You have settled a lot of these claims in court proceedings. After all, when this was resolved, the injured person received a bill home to pay the costs. As a rule, the compensation was as high as its costs for the proceedings. That's how you handle these things. Just to be clear, I'm gonna take care of Starman's attorney's office with specific matters that I'm going to address to your ministry. And once again, the sick must seek justice in court, which is nonsense. I didn't ask you about that. I asked you simply about the fact: When will you start to provide for 30 companies that have had the opportunity in their asbestos production for these workers to find out about this disease on their part, money for expert commissions? When will the distinguished minister be able to deal with these consequences of asbestos on a regular basis? You know, it also says in here that rights in this law are justified by those persons in companies that abolish [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Consequences with asbestos. [[...]] That's number two. You don't want to relax that money either. So, we have people at risk who are still at risk. Respect for this law is questionable.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Again, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u137	We need to separate the proceedings that end with the settlement or the application to the Ministry, while the other are the proceedings that end before the court when the party disagrees with the settlement. And we need to separate that. The proceedings led by the court are led by the defence attorney, but by the Ministry, we have resolved all the applications. And we don't have any backlogs with these roles. If the commission hadn't been paid, we wouldn't have been able to solve the case. And we're in a clean play in April of the month.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend probably has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u139	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government. I can't say otherwise than I'm sad. You ask a question, you get another answer. In accordance with Article 246, second paragraph, I propose a debate in the National Assembly to discuss these issues in an open manner and to actually expose your responsibility, Madam Minister, because I see that you are fleeing from it. Read your duties in your job description and tasks, and you will see that this is an integral task. And in the morning, when you arrive, please do as your conscience tells you not to die.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you. We will decide on your proposal in accordance with practice and the Rules of Procedure tomorrow in the context of the votes. A colleague of Janc has the floor to ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! During last year, one of the most reverberating medical complications revolved around operating tables. The most vocal warning for these problems and these tables was the Oncology Institute, as this is also directly related to the relocation of patients from impossible living conditions in the premises of the Austro-Hungarian stable into a new building for which the foundation stone was laid as early as 16 June 1997. The problem escalates with legionella bacteria, and the peak was achieved by waiting for the equipment itself. I ask, Mr. Secretary-General: Where did this feeling of fellow man, of a sick man fighting for his life go? Why don't they move to new quarters with old beds for the first time? In some departments, people sit in the hallways when their chemo is running or wait hours for their beds, even though the insurance company pays them a bed next to the medicine. Blood removals are carried out in the hallways. Patients wait in line to eat lunch at the table or to eat just in the hallway. It is extremely unacceptable, inhumane, that such patients do not receive the basic utility that belongs to them. Why do we keep our eyes closed in Slovenia before the fact that every year we have a sharp increase in the number of people who have cancer? The disease not only chooses among the elderly, it also affects more and more children. When we somehow look at what these patients must experience as a person and deal with the inappropriate conditions for treatment, I would like to remind you that on the same path of fate, each of us can be found. Dear Minister, the story is long, but I wonder: When will this endless agony finally end for the patients and for the employees to receive their treatment in a dignified manner after 10 years? I believe and strongly hope that it is already time and that it is not to the pride of the Ministry of Health, not to the pride of Slovenia, but even less to the satisfaction of all cancer patients in Slovenia who have already been affected by this disease. I hope, Mr Minister, that this story will truly end and that we will indeed be able to conclude this long-standing process that has been going on for too long. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Minister Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u143	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr. Janz, I am very grateful for this question. At least I can say some things that can't be said. As far as the new premises of the Oncology Institute are concerned, I agree with the findings regarding the old building A that conditions are impossible there, that these impossible conditions last for a substantial length of time and that this situation needs to be addressed as quickly as possible. I am pleased that after 10 years of these various postponements this move will finally take place in the shortest possible time. The procedure for the equipment required to move to the new premises of the Oncology Institute shall be in the final phase and thereafter, from the signing of the contract shall be a maximum of three months until the possible relocation of all patients. I have to say that I have to go back to the period 2000 when, for the first time in that short period of six months, I stopped by providing additional funds to build the Oncology Institute with additional funds for the construction of the Oncology Institute, which at that time remained precisely due to this lack. On this basis, the completed construction of the Oncology Institute, which was later complicated by a well-known invitation to tender for the operating tables, which I have been talking about at the time, will not lead to moving until the equipment procedure is completed. Here, of course, a number of complaints, including unjustifiable complaints, have been proved recently by the decision of the State Audit Commission, which has rejected or identified the request of one tenderer concerning the purchase and installation of general office equipment for the Oncology Institute. I must say that such procedures are very much in the field of health care and these health calls, including those in oncology, are extremely complicated and then lead to similar results, as has now been the case with equipment. Your question also relates to why there was no prior resettlement. I have to say, I've been getting all the time from the Oncology Institute data so that the old equipment doesn't make it possible to move. And this was also provided on several occasions by the Oncology Institute. And it also applies to the legionella that has now emerged, but this problem is now, thank God, saved, legionelle at such a concentration that prevents the operation of the hospital departments, in this water, so it is no longer an obstacle. However, a certain procedure is needed for the legionela, which the Oncology Institute must carry out, so that the legionella does not appear at a higher concentration even where some spaces do not yet operate. This was also the conclusion or conclusion of the inspection services which sent such a finding. In doing so, another matter that is very important for Slovenia should be said. In the area of oncology, we are talking about building A. There, as I said in the introduction, the situation is indeed as bad as it is, and within four months of today, the situation will be fully settled by resettlement. However, this is a certain percentage, which is not particularly significant in relation to the situation in Slovenian oncology. Slovenian oncology works very well. The last time we were at a meeting of the Society of Oncological Patients on Saturday, it was made clear by our representatives in the European Union that oncology and the register of cancer in Slovenia were among the best actually in Europe, but that there were specific areas where problems were identified. She said that because you are nodding, Mrs Chufareva, who is a representative of one European Union. It is true, however, that in the area of mammography, we have used only opportunistic screening of breast cancer, which we will realize this year in terms of sifting what is needed for better results, such as opportunistic screening.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you very much. My friend Janc wants to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u145	Dear Minister, I thank you for these answers, and I believe those words that you have said here, that the end of this story and that the oncology institute will finally shine the sun for those patients and for the employees who live there. I fully trust the Slovenian profession in this area, and I think it is top-notch, European comparable, but you also know well that the problems with invitations, procedures, complaints and sometimes slow officials probably find this difficult to understand by cancer patients. I believe that neither you nor your officials are responsible for this, but the whole set of events is that it is on this story, the most sensitive, that there has been such a long process of implementation of this story. But I can see, according to your answer, that this story will be completed and will definitively unlock this big project that's been going on for 10 years, that is to say, the completion of the oncology institute. Thank you to all those who have asked me for this question, I hope that this answer has satisfied them too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u146	Yes, thank you very much, even though I don't know where the request for a reply was, but I will give my word to the Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u147	But I have time. Thank you. Before that, I could not finish the matter with regard to some of the findings. I must say that it was us last year or in recent years that we have significantly increased the resources for the functioning of oncology in Slovenia, including oncology departments. It's not just the Oncology Institute. Oncology is carried out elsewhere, not just at the Oncology Institute. The situation is quite different there, as is now described for these patients in building A. I have to say, we've increased the funds at this time for oncology by 80%. By 80%, the funds have increased. In order to make the situation clearer - increasing funds for all remaining areas, from hospital treatment in Slovenia at this time by 40%, true oncology is given an absolute advantage and oncology will be given priority in the future, as we have given it so far. The accident is only in that the legislation is not accepted, but in the previous term, so bad, so inadequate to carry out the calls that these complaints, as I mentioned earlier, arise. However, I do not rule out any awkwardness in the area of the tenderers themselves, which is largely due to some professional requirements which differ from one month to another between the implementation of these calls. And it complicates the whole process, I must say, indefinitely, as it did here. But I'm very happy to let you know that this story is really going to end. I hope that there will also be a favourable solution to another complaint that is pending on the State Audit Commission and will be concluded this year. I would like to say that in the context of these funds, which I am talking about now, the increase in funding for oncology, we have solved the problem of linear accelerators, radiation devices, which required additional provision of almost 2 billion, then tolars, for purchase. In the process, there is another purchase of such apparatus, and in this way we have practically solved the problem of waiting species in this area, and in particular solved the problem that these patients no longer need to drive, as necessary, to the neighbouring country for radiation. We are a third country in the European Union or in Europe, which we have provided from compulsory health insurance for Herceptin. When the profession found that this was necessary, I immediately decided on this and the means provided and it runs normally. It's for the treatment of breast cancer. It is true, however, that I repeat at the end, when I have only a few seconds left, that this story with building A is a result of the long-standing problems with the resettlement, not this mandate, but the mandates that are before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Spending. The Minister of Education is not here yet, but you'll probably ask him a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I expect Dr. Beast's oral response at the next meeting if he's not here today. In some Slovene municipalities counselling centres for children, adolescents and parents and counselling centres for students and parents have been working for a very long time. They help parents and professional educators to raise their children when there are more difficult questions of education in the field of child’s or adolescent’s response and behavior. These centres and consultative offices create conditions for education and education in accordance with the interests of the child and ensure quality education for children for mutual tolerance, reducing inequalities in society and contributing to raising educational levels, protecting children from poverty and preventing social exclusion. In addition, the workshops provide training and counselling, professional lectures for children, parents, students and teachers, and help children and adolescents with different learning, behavioural, emotional, educational problems. They also help families to regulate their relationships and are an important part of education, volunteering and related mentoring. The contact of professional workers, consultation rooms with parents, teachers and advisers from primary and secondary schools is an opportunity to deepen mutual cooperation. The advisory centres and advisory offices shall operate within the municipalities which are their founders. Their funding may be compromised by the automatic replacement of municipal authorities. However, care for children and adolescents should not remain dependent on local politicians and politicians. In addition, in September 2006, Slovenian counselling centres for children, adolescents and parents, as well as counselling centres for students and parents, addressed the Minister with an initiative to place their activities in the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. That is why I am interested in the fact that amendments to the law on the organisation and financing of education and expression are being announced: Does the Ministry intend to do anything to provide sustainable funding for the activities of counselling centres for children, adolescents and parents, and for counsellors for pupils and parents? How does it intend to place consultative centres and consultative offices in a network of public institutions at local, regional and national level? For the answer, as I say, I expect an oral answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The following is said by colleague Žgajner Tavš, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and all present at the meeting! In Slovenia we have ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is one of the six most important international human rights instruments. In 2007, however, Slovenia, unfortunately, is one of the few countries within the EU and also a Europe that does not meet the requirements of that Convention. I will only mention Article 4 which requires States Parties to take all appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures to exercise the rights of children recognised in that Convention. But in Slovenia today we do not even have a child protection law that puts the child at the centre of attention or a law on the prevention of violence against children. We don't have a legal act that treats a child as a special individual. We do not have an institution to give a consular executive opinion in legal proceedings and thus reduce procedures. We do not have a body to take care of coordination between ministries in this area. We don't have a law on early intervention of children with special needs. We don't have a guardian who only cares about the protection of children's rights. Although we have adopted a programme for children and youth from 2006 to 2016. We do not have an action plan to implement this programme. We don't have the national doctrine of a tortured child. We had a Department for Children and Youth within the Institute for Health Protection, but it was abolished. Within the Ministry of Labour, we had a government body called the Council for Children, but it was abolished at the beginning of this mandate. We had a commission with the Ministry of Education dealing with school violence, but it was also abolished at the beginning of this mandate. This organ is gone. Our country today has no mechanism to help a troubled child. But statistics say that violence among peers is increasing, that violence against children is increasing, that violence against children by the weight of acts is increasing, that more and more are the most difficult forms of sexual violence against children. And it is the children who are the group that, within our country, do not have their own advocate, but because of their lack of hearing and power, they would actually need it first. Let me get to the question, Madam Secretary-General. You announced a law on the prevention of domestic violence until the beginning of July. The Criminal Code is intended to include a chapter on the prevention of domestic violence. Domestic violence is supposed to become a crime. You predicted a family code. We try to place our children’s rights under the protection of women’s equality and family violence. That's better than nothing, but Minister, that's bad. Last but not least: What is your specific position on the creation of comprehensive legislation on children's rights?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you so much for asking. Our ministry and I personally advocate the greatest possible protection of children's rights. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is preparing a proposal for a family code aimed primarily at improving the protection of children's rights or improving the situation in all the procedures concerned. In this respect, we also foresee a number of transfers of powers in procedures or current administrative procedures at social work centres to the courts, where they would increase the protection of children's interests. The Ombudsman's pilot project is currently under way - the voice of the child, with the active participation of our ministry. After the completion of the project, a specific law is provided to regulate the procedure of jurisdiction and the functioning of that institution. Since the organisation of defence depends primarily on the results of the pilot project, which currently includes training for candidates for advocates and other activities related to the performance of the advocate, the proposal for a family code at this stage provides for a provision which will specifically refer to a special law on the child's advocate. The proposal for a special law on a child advocate is based exactly on Article 4 of the European Convention on the Exercise of Human Rights, which you also cited. It will be placed on the child’s official list of advocates, advocates in cases where his or her interests are threatened, and in procedures and actions where the interests of parents and children are different or contrary to parents’ failure or even their desire to defend or defend their children’s views for various reasons. Above all, this is the case when it comes to revenge for another parent, to gain its own material benefit, and also to protect the family’s reputation when it comes to crimes committed against a child, for solidarity with another parent. The official person who obtains information about the child's interests being threatened will be obliged to inform the Centre for Social Work immediately. The child will, however, need to be appointed an advocate if any proceedings are introduced and if his or her interest cannot be protected in any other appropriate way. A special law on counsel will also define the tasks of the child's representative. The Ombudsman’s primary task will be to ensure that the child’s benefits are exercised in particular in the event that the legitimate representatives refuse to do so. The advocate will cooperate with the child in the protection of the child, taking into account the child’s opinion in particular. It will cooperate when the benefits of children are violated in legal, educational, economic, including medical, health, emotional and any other way. The proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence will impose a ban on the physical punishment of children and the protection of children from media exposure to children in all cases that would be child-injured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the word again. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Well, Minister, you said, "we stand up... to increase the protection of children's interests." And I will also relate to what you said in the end, of course, because there is only one and only one aspect of solving the issue of the protection of children's rights. You said recently, including violence against women, including domestic violence, is a social problem that we need to talk about out loud and rule out prejudice. I believe that you are behind these words, and I believe that in this context you are also thinking about children and their rights. And if I quote you now, "That's why it's so much more important that we condemn violence in a loud manner. We must work to ensure zero tolerance for domestic and social violence." Those are your words, Minister. I am sure that at this point you will agree with me that it is actually important what signals we give to society as individuals, not least because we are in this position as policy makers. If you are behind the above-mentioned words that I have quoted, and not least what you said in the first part or the answer to my question, if you do not finally support the need to regulate the area of children's rights, to become a favored and child-friendly society, I ask you once again: How will you manage and when will we get a marriage basis? How do you feel about the public condemnation of an alleged juvenile victim of sexual violence and, in my opinion, the extremely offensive attitude towards the alleged victim and her family by an important political person? I do believe that you do not have to pay particular attention to the public letter addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm surprised, Minister, in spite of your words or precisely because of your words, when I read in today's Youth that the Ministry should do so. [[End warning sign]] there is no specific position. Moreover, you wrote to the political figures mentioned in support that they have the right to express their opinion. Everyone has it, it's a constitutional right, Minister, but in a way, it's [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u157	I've already listed how we're going to protect children's rights under the law. This will be a family code, a law on the prevention of violence and a special law on advocacy. In the coming days, I also intend to meet with the Ombudsman and also to adopt a common position on the protection of children's rights in the field of the Ombudsman, the powers and the participation of the Ombudsman in the drafting of this legislation, which I have mentioned. We are already participating in the Project Advocate - the voice of the child. The question has also been raised several times as to whether we need a special Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman for children's rights. I also intend to discuss this subject with the guardian, whether it will be an office or a special deputy. In a short time, I will meet with the Ombudsman, because I think we have a lot in common in the protection of children's rights. About the law of violence. We still need to have zero tolerance for any violence that arises in our society, both with regard to children, both with regard to women, and with the elderly, we have been talking about violence and in the field of children. That is why we extend the law on the prevention of violence not only to violence against women, but also to family members, to whom we list and also to the wider - family members in blood relations and also in the consecration to include families, where violence is also committed against adopters, adopters, guardians and all forms, including the broader violence. We are faced with a number of laws in which we want to ensure, above all, greater rights of children and also protect them in individual procedures, whether they are judicial or administrative.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Colleague Žgajner Tavševa has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I will also take advantage of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure and, in fact, ask that my fellow Members and colleagues support me in my request for an extended debate on the Minister's response. While I fully support your efforts, Your Honourable Minister, as well as your optimistic words, however, as I have said, it is only a case that raised me honestly before the time I read the daily newspapers, for I have not seen this public letter. But so much more today, when I read the official position of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in Youth. Rather than distance ourselves from doing so, I will not publicly and loudly expose the letters and names of that official, a political official in our country, who has allowed himself such moral controversial writing. Black on white says the ministry supported it, supported it. But you know, this is contrary to all the great promises of zero tolerance, after not knowing, achieving or in trying to desigmatize and help victims who are, I don't know, particularly victims of sexual violence, as one of the worst forms of violence. Especially when we're talking about kids. That is also why, and believe it also because, by the UNICEF-Slovak Committee of UNICEF, there have been very concrete proposals in the direction of legal regulation of the field of children's rights in our country before your office or prior to the appearance of the former Ombudsman, it is reasonable that you, too, Minister, support the wider debate in Parliament. This is a very wide area, and education is linked to this, and health is linked to this. We have heard that at the Institute of Health Protection there was a special body before time, but it was abolished. But health is good. And good must remain when we talk about children. In our country, however, no one is monitoring the health or mental or physical condition of children. The government seems completely unrelated. As has already been said, in the field of government or state, we do not have one institution to deal fully with this issue. It is therefore appropriate to support the request for an extended debate from this point of view. Also in order to get concrete answers to the questions I have raised today, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We will, as usual, vote on your proposal tomorrow evening in the framework of the vote. Now, Mr Yelen has the floor to ask questions to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs as well. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers, distinguished Madam Minister! You are aware that the effects of pension reform only show up for a longer period of time. Some analyses relating to the implementation of pension reform suggest that this constant deterioration in the income situation of pensioners is due to an increasing proportion of pensioners below the poverty line or at risk of poverty. The poverty of old people is becoming a central problem in the Republic of Slovenia, especially when we know that poverty is 65 and more than 2 times higher than the average of the entire population. The risk is particularly high in older women, especially those living alone. 56th point - European Parliament resolutions on demographic challenges and intergenerational solidarity speak of the fact that reforms of national pension systems should not only focus on the development of systems in terms of financial sustainability but should also address problems in order to take account of social sustainability in the search for the financial sustainability of the pension system. As I have already mentioned, the poverty of the old people in our country is a problem, since, for example, in 2000, 37.5% of pensioners had less than their average salary at the time of the introduction of pension reform. In 2002, this percentage was already 42.4%. At the same time, I must point out that pensions are to be aligned with wage increases and that, despite the fact that only these are aligned with wage increases, the proportion of poor pensioners is increasing. I do not hope to think about the proportion of the poor only when pensions, which some in government circles want, are aligned with the increase in living costs. So I ask you, Madam Minister: What proportion of elderly people under the poverty threshold would be acceptable to you or to the government? Maybe 50, 60, 70% of the pension population? I am asking this question because we can read or listen to the demands for a decisive and radical reform of the existing pension system in terms of financial sustainability in the media of public information. At the same time, we are not aware that the current mode of coordination under the poverty threshold is around 40% of the pension population. What will you do to resolve this problem, Madam Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, your word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We have an impact on poverty reduction in the Slovenian area with various legal solutions, and in particular the common goal is to help the materially weak and consequently to reduce the risk of poverty in the employment sector in particular, where we want to stimulate the unemployed through various measures to participate as much as possible in employment, in the social sector with financial social assistance, pay, home protection and also with scholarships. In 2005, the recipients of cash social assistance were 62,000 and in 2006 they fell to 54,500 monetary social assistance. In the family area, we have children’s allowances and other family benefits. In the case of pensions or invalidity insurance, however, a pension allowance and a state pension which also significantly reduces the level of poverty among the elderly. The level of poverty risk in Slovenia is 12% according to SURS data and has gradually declined since 1997 as it has been 14%. Slovenia is thus included in a group of countries with the lowest poverty rate, with only three other countries ahead of it. Social transfers serve their purpose, improve the income position of recipients and thus affect the overall reduction of poverty. However, the analysis shows that the rate of poverty is higher in over 65 years of age, especially in single women, but pension cannot be the only criterion for determining the risk of poverty. The current legislation primarily allows, as I have already mentioned, a protective allowance, an allowance for assistance and a service that provides a remuneration for a person with a decent life. This border represents €369. In addition to this, it should be noted that data on individual property also have a significant impact on the situation of poverty and also on incomes from pensions, as farmers, who are also a large number of people, still have their property or landowners. Although the rate of poverty in the pension population is higher than that in the rest of the population, the structure of applicants for monetary social assistance shows that only 5% of those over 60 years of age and only 3% of those over 65 years of age. Given that the price for obtaining monetary social assistance is 200,5 euros, they have the opportunity to obtain monetary social assistance if they so wish, including those who obtain a national pension, and this is 149,88 euros or a farmer's pension is 191 euros, of course if they meet the conditions that they do not have family members who are obliged to care for their survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Again, Mr. Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you for your answer. Oh, yeah. Look, we have about 45% of the elderly living alone in poverty, 25% of the unemployed citizens, 22% of the single parents are poor materially, 26% of those over 65 who are struggling to survive. Among recipients of social assistance, 41% are under the age of 27. 15% of people are long-term unemployed, 12% of the population are at the threshold of poverty, which is true, as you said, Madam Minister, and as many as 48 000 pensioners receive a protective allowance. I think my concern is justified: Where are we going to stop?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u166	Madam Secretary, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u167	In this data, which I have stated to ask for 5% of those at risk and over 65 years of age 3% by the age of 60, shows in fact that pensioners do not require, if threatened, financial social assistance, of course if they met the conditions that family members are not obliged to support them. But for now, I mean, the criteria have been given. If we did not have enough resources to survive, we could also apply for financial social assistance if they did not have family members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Potrč is next to ask a question to the absent Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Since I want the Minister of Finance to have the opportunity to think carefully about the answer, I am asking him a question, despite his absence, orally. The tax administration of Slovenia must be doing extremely difficult work. There have been many changes in the law in recent years, its relationship is practically in every household and has an important position for the influence of every citizen, as well as all legal persons. However, and perhaps because of this, it is not pleasant that, perhaps objectively justified, even by subjective guilt, there appears every so long an event that is difficult to assess as acceptable to such an important institution. Let me start with the problems that have been with extremely difficult income forms and that many citizens have complained about them or they have been wrong. The delay in the allocation of income decisions for 2005 continued, which was disproportionately large and late in autumn. We got information that he was for cca. 11 thousand debtors have made an account that was wrong and will get re-decisions where the amount of their obligations will be corrected, which is certainly not pleasant, especially because we know that if we fill out the wrong form, it is our fault and we are responsible before the tax administration. The issue of paying resident taxes in Austria remains unresolved, as they are dissatisfied with the fact that although this is regulated by law, they have to pay more income according to the dose in our country. Finally, we have witnessed the big forecasts of what will bring about the new possibility of pre-filled income forms, that many citizens and citizens have been sent in open envelopes and that there is a possibility of misuse of personal data. Finally, questions are also raised as to whether it is indisputably clear that inspectors are independent in the performance of their duties, and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] fully responsible or formally dependent on the content of its work by the Director of Veterinary Administration. [[...]] I would like an answer to all of this, as well as an assessment by the Minister [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Bevk, who will raise the question to the two ministers, namely, the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, and the Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and adopting the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. In this regard, I also point out that ministers will have to share their time. Mr. Bevk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The national strategic reference framework includes all those development investment projects and programmes in Slovenia for the period 2007 to 2013 which will be financed from the state budget, municipal budgets and, in particular, from European cohesion policy funds. In this context, an operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007-2013 has also been prepared. The fact is that economic development was followed by a transport policy with investments in the motorway cross, while at the same time far behind in financing the reconstruction of regional and local transport links. In the area of roads, a key weakness is the poor linkage of peripheral regions, such as the Idrija-Cerkljan region and the Upper Posoča region, with central Slovenia and the international road network. As a result, these areas are becoming locally uncompetitive, even though they have others, to develop the necessary factors, such as economic stability and development. Unfortunately, the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007-2013 does not contain the state road Keltika, from Želen to Idrija and forward to the highway in Logatco. This road link also fell out of the set of projects set out in the national resolution for the period 2007-2023. The fourth development axis is therefore disabled as it excludes the most economically developed region of the region and the country. In the past period, government representatives have promised to include the denial of road links among projects that will be able to run for European funding. In spite of these promises, Keltika has again fallen out of both of the most important national development plans or projects. After 2009, it is not in the country's development plans, nor in the draft budgets. Minister Zhagar and Dr Turk, who are responsible for the two most important development documents in the country, I ask: Why did they unjustifiably exclude our region? I call on them, I call on them to include the Celtica project, or the entire fourth development axis, in line with Slovenia's spatial development strategy and the country's transport policy resolution, in the national strategic reference framework for the period 2007-2013 and in the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023. I thank both ministers very much for their response. If necessary, I will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dr. Zhagar will be the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for asking, too. A respected choir! This issue concerns, as already mentioned, the absorption of European cohesion policy funds for the next development period, in conjunction with the national strategic reference framework and the operational programmes that follow from this period. However, some numbers should be mentioned at the starting point. The cohesion policy area for the next period will have €4.1 billion available without territorial cooperation. I'm thinking of cross-border cooperation here. Of this, 915 million euros, or 22.3% of the funds allocated to the transport sector. Taking into account other investment and development needs, especially in the area of the Cohesion Fund, where particular emphasis is given to the environment or sustainable use of energy, it was no longer possible to allocate resources to this area. Finally, these documents need to be brought into line with the European Commission. Nevertheless, in the field of road infrastructure, €461 million, or 11.2% of the resources to be separated into two parts, namely those that go to the highway and are financed by the Cohesion Fund and those for state roads. Here, however, are the development axes financed by the European Regional Development Fund. That is also why we have earmarked part of this fund because we are aware of the importance of development axes for more coherent regional development. As regards the fourth development axis, this can be financed from the third development priority of the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, with a priority of EUR 224 million. I am talking only about the European work of financing. So it refers to the development axis. However, some funds are also intended for public passenger transport and for air and airport infrastructure. We did not specify concrete projects in the operational programmes. Indeed, what you say is that some indicative projects are mentioned as priority projects. However, I repeat this again means or that this does not mean that other projects under this heading cannot be financed from this content as well. However, this is a matter of priority and well-prepared projects, including placements in the space itself. This could also be mentioned in the conclusion that, in this case, we are talking exclusively about the European part of the collegiate policy development funds, but we should not, of course, neglect other resources in this area, not even the public-private partnership, especially because these projects, for which we have the will and needs, are significantly greater than those available in the next seven-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you very much. And Mr. Turk. Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u175	I understand the development axes as a schematic illustration or indication of the direction that is to be regulated by transport and where certain development projects are to be concentrated. I understand the fourth development axis as the one that is supposed to connect Tolminska or Posačje with central Slovenia or with the highway cross and at the same time the most interesting places located in this centre are said to be north of the Ljubljana - Koper motorway and west of the Ljubljana Valley. The resolution was in preparation in 2006, when only the indicative schematic sketch of this fourth corridor could be transmitted by the Minister of Transport. I think that the Ministry of Transport, together with the Ministry of Environment and Space and in cooperation with the SVRL, is ordering a similar study on where specific roads should go. Such a study will probably also include the possibility that Idrija is included here. If this did not happen, then the proposal or choice of variant of this fourth development axis may also include a proposal for connecting roads to this basic axis, which in fact means a second or additional possibility for us to come to Idrija somehow connected to the road or motorway system. Now, in this place I'd actually stop, maybe for the next thought, if there's a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u176	Thank you very much for both your answers. Mr. Bevk, you have a request for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much for saying this, also because Mr Minister will have the opportunity to continue his thought. There is no basic axis, according to the strategy of spatial development of Slovenia, the 4th axis is written into all the most important documents, as the axis in the form of the letter Y, which goes from Robič to Želen and splits on the left and right legs there. It is said that I would appeal to the government and to representatives of ministries and ministers to take into account the adopted strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia, as well as the resolution on transport policy. Thus, it would not be necessary for me to fight for two years to include the Idrija and also part of the church's part in this entire 4th development axis. With regard to the indicative list of key projects, this priority list includes the 3rd development axis, namely Austria to Šentilj - Koper and further to the New City and Croatia, or from Austria to Croatia, then the modernisation of the Jeprca - Zminec - Želan road connection, then Željan - Peršeti - Kobarid - Robič, then Ljubljana - Škofljica - Kočevje, then a large majority of the money is provided for this, and then there is also some under the heading - together other state roads amounting to EUR 124 million, while the entire remaining project is worth EUR 220 million. So it says, if we get it all under the other state roads, then there will be nothing left in the end to have the 4th development axis fully embedded in these plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I assume Dr. Turk will answer. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. So I think supplements are always possible. Maps, maps, pictures that are drawn in the documents are different - some are actually very broadly and schematically drawn, some are very detailed - but I think they need to be understood mainly in a schematic way. But I would like to highlight the following. We have every time we decide to build roads in the first phase, in fact, some big lobbying to get this road right through this or other place, then in the second phase, all the problems with land, with spatial plans, with the terrain, and so on. I think we should establish, I will say, a way or approach for the state to say, "Approximately on this relationship we would like to make a connection." Then the local communities in this connection should somehow compete with some countries to prepare the best conditions, where spatial and other acts are most regulated, to at the same time satisfy the local interest and also the interest of the State that it is connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Dr. Zhagar would like to complete that answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thanks again for saying that. I would point out once again that both the National Strategic Reference Framework and the operational programmes do not exclude funding for this continuation in terms of development axes. But it is true that these things will have to be reconciled, and it is the minister here who says it will be an addition to this work. However, these projects, which are currently listed in the operational programme itself, are related to so-called large projects of around EUR 50 million. These projects should be specifically referred to the Commission and approved by the Commission. However, it is also a matter of priority in how quickly they will be placed in space and how successful and fast they will follow the achievement of the objectives that we want to achieve with this, and the development axes also have priority in these documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I rarely decide to take advantage of this opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to request a debate on this issue because I was not satisfied with the answers of ministers. I have to do this now to explain something. These cards aren't just schematics or anything like that. This map I have shown and such maps are also crucial for the further development of our country, because they are integral and equivalent documents within the framework of the Strategy for Spatial Development of Slovenia. And if there are here in this publication card 4 to Chapter 3/2/1 Development of economic public infrastructure, guidelines for the development of the transport system, then it is for the ministries and for the government an indicator of how other documents should be done. If we have adopted the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Slovenia, which contains the guidelines for the development of the transport system and then we do not take this into account in other development projects, then this is something wrong. I would therefore appeal once again to respect the adopted Strategy for the Spatial Development of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by this National Assembly in 2004 and to take account of the resolution on the transport policy of our country adopted in this Assembly last year, which is why the Vice-President takes advantage of this opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure and I ask that the response of ministers be discussed at this or the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We will discuss or vote on your proposal tomorrow evening, as part of the vote. However, we continue with the questions of the Member States. The word has magic. A trifle who will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, you will probably agree, as well as your colleagues in the National Assembly, that the student work has been very liberalised and does not achieve those key effects or objectives, so that it connects studies with work, with training and that those basic resources may be obtained for some to make studies easier. So it was born and has a variety of bad effects on students, young families and even the nation. This student work, if recalculated, is done in Slovenia for about 25,000 jobs, both in public administration and in the economy. Some employers, of course, use this or a large majority to enforce a flexible labour market. What's this all about? No posts are required for the student work, no special admission procedures, cancellation deadlines, departures, lunches, any holidays - daily, weekly: There are no different fares, pension and disability insurance, just in case of an accident at work. In short, such a work belonging to the previous century or a little while ago. This is also used in public administration. Because of these consequences, many students fail to complete their studies, and then they stay at the university work and join colleges. We have one of the longest studies in Europe and a very high unemployment rate of up to 30 years. This is certainly also due to student work, which is not properly regulated. Union leaders say when they negotiate a flexible labour market, they won't give up even for a millimeter. When we compare the rights of students and workers, it's like night and day, but no one stands behind them. Well, no one negotiates for students. So one of the big employers is also the public administration. Dear Minister, are you likely aware of the extent of this work, or does it achieve the purpose for which it is also established? I would like to ask: How much is in the public administration of the student work that took place during the first two months of this year, after the ministries and in the bodies in the composition? And how many are there who work in systematic jobs and should actually get a real job? In fact, there are many cases when you go from office to office in public administration, that some have been doing work for many years, students. It's a pure abuse of student work.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you. The issue of student work policy can be slightly misdirected, it is clear that it belongs to the Ministry of Labour. I can actually answer this question from the employer's point of view, i.e. from the point of view of the state administration which employs students. We have collected data, if you are interested, we can also send them to you in the exact table by the ministries and bodies in the composition. The total total of all students at work in March until 15.3.2007 on different time scales, these may be smaller volumes, migrations and the like, is 900; this is a total. Of these are some of the organs that stand out. This is GURS with about 240, agriculture with about 200, direction for roads with 50, for traffic counting, and Durs with 115. In all these areas, it is actually simpler office work. And in all these areas, in particular the Dursa and the Agency for Agricultural Markets, there are processes for informing procedures in this direction in order to need this student work as little as possible. Student work is taken into account for simpler office work, for occasional work such as: moving, editing archives and the like. If I give you an example: the Ministry of Public Administration, we have currently, so in March, at the work of 29 students for the needs, as I described them. But we also have a specific case of informatics who are our fellows, because it is simply not possible to get computer science on the market with university education for work at the Ministry, for work in the state administration. That's how our fellow students help us with our work, even when they have student status. We asked the Labour Inspectorate whether there were any abuses in this area, in the State Administration in particular. They've provided us with information on the number of violations they call black employment. This year, there were 45th generals, Mr Brezovar - Director or Chief Inspector - we asked whether there were any of these cases in the state administration and the answer was "No." So if you know any specific violations, then I suggest you report them to the inspectorate for work in order to be able to verify. As far as student work policy is concerned, as I said, I would not comment on it myself, because it is a matter of the Ministry of Labour. Personally, my view is that student work is not harmful. I myself have a personal experience with this, I have worked a lot as a student: from physical to intellectual work, but I have completed my studies, every year, within the time limit required. I think it's my personal opinion that student work doesn't negatively affect the student and his studies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u189	The additional question is in this direction. Given that there is so much student work in the Republic of Slovenia, of course also in the state administration, and that the question, if it meets these basic criteria for what it is intended for, you can go ask the ministries and you will find that some work has been ongoing for three years, not only occasionally, but 8 hours a day and some never complete the study. This is a way to introduce flexibility in the labour market. Although the law says "three months" but after the expiration of three [[or 3]] months shall resume and so on. In short, we're deceiving ourselves. This is also undoubtedly the reason why some do not complete studies and this is their key way of employment and social security. This, of course, affects unemployment and also 25,000 jobs, if counted, not only in public administration. So I wonder: What will you do, in cooperation with the other ministries, that the student work will no longer, at least in these ways, be a bad influence on studies, on employment and that it will not undermine regular employment? I want to know what the government's plans are to put an end to this. Because I get a lot of letters from mothers, students, that they've been misled and that it's hard if they ever get a full retirement.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u191	Thank you very much. This last one surprises me, because no student tries to work. If he doesn't want to do his job anymore, he can leave it at any time. So I don't know what the problem would be, how they could be misled. We are not planning any specific measures regarding student work in the state administration. What is the intended policy of student work in general, as I have already said, would be a question for my colleague, Minister Cotmanovo. Of course, we intend to work legally in the public administration, including in the field of student work. So if you think there are any abuses, in particular illegalities, I suggest you notify them either to the labour inspectorate or to the Ministry of Public Administration. It will be verified and this illegality will be attempted. However, I think it is normal for a government as an employer, i.e. a state administration, to use the legal possibilities of student work, like all other employers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you very much. It is Mr Zagorac who will raise the question to the absent Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you. I have to say that I already have, I think, a third session in a row, this happiness or bad luck to ask questions to someone who isn't. However, when it comes to the need to respond to them, even then, in principle, there are no ministers, but I have heard that the College is supposed to decide that the matter should also be settled, and so much more makes sense to me the procedural proposal that my fellow Member, Happy Friend, made at the beginning of today's meeting. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs may also be very brief: "What purposes or leverage will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia use to protect the northeastern border of the Republic of Slovenia bordering the Republic of Austria?" We've got problems on the south border. They're now emerging in the northeast. I must say that the Slovenian National Parties were once again the first to raise public awareness of this problem with written or graphic material. And in this respect, I must congratulate the mayor of one of the municipalities in north-eastern Slovenia, who removed the table with the German inscription on the Slovenian side by hand, because the government obviously failed to do so. So that no one will say that I praise the mayor just like that, the mayor comes from the biggest government party. The Mayor also warns, as more and more purchases of Slovenian land are emerging at the very edge of the Slovenian border, in order for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do something, it may even be possible to do so, because it is a matter of greater importance for agricultural land, it is also possible to enable the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which has the pre-emptive right to redeem this land, because otherwise this border will extend dramatically to the interior at the expense of the Republic of Austria. We have come so far that even the Austrian Federal Member buys land in Slovenia or at the very edge, at such ridiculous prices that it seems necessary to prevent, disable and sanction such things, as we ourselves know, is not possible. If this goes on, I will use the term that was in one of Slovenia's journals as an address, and Master's border will obviously be on sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jurij, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Mr. Yuri, it's your turn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I have a question for two ministers, Dr. Bručan's Minister of Health and Dr. Zupan's Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. On a recent visit by the government in Slovenia and in Kras and by yours, Mr. Minister of Health, to the General Hospital Izola, local media have made public your intention to move from the facility where the hospital houses, to the High School for Health Workers and instead to put an emergency centre there to shorten its response time. If he holds the information, I ask you, Mr. Minister: Do you know how recent the arrangement of the premises of the High School for Health Workers in the hospital facility has stood - recent because it still smells of "frozen" color - and how valuable is the building of the old Italian school to which the health school is to move and how much would its complete reconstruction cost - so these old schools in view of the venerable age of over 100 years? What would financial means reprocessing the health care facilities at the hospital for the needs of the emergency centre, and do you think such a plan is in line with the principle of prudent and cost-effective public money management? The media also reported on your surprise, as we read in the Primorski News, over the fact that the isolation rescue station is where it is. So I ask you, Mr. Minister: Have you forgotten that the funds for its construction were approved by you, that you were invited to lay the foundation stone for it, and that you also opened it with the mayors and mayor of the three Istrian municipalities? Regarding response time: Do you know the response time for rescue vehicles starting from this location or what time was in the old location in the city, and especially what is the response time for a vehicle, such as a hospital starting from a hill or a hospital? Now to Minister Zupan, the question on this subject is: Do you agree with the plan to move the High School for Health Workers to a location that may, as I said, absorb a lot of money? I ask this because you are known as rather unfavorable to invest in the construction of new buildings for the University of Primorska. In particular, I have in mind your "no" university campus in Isola for the purposes of a science and technology study. I wonder, does not such a college belong, according to your plans, to the composition of higher education in Istria? I'm interested in your escape from the financial problems that have arisen with the renovation of Armeria and Foresteria in Cyprus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The first one has the word Dr. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I will continue to answer the first and third questions briefly. As for the costs - the third question - then Mr Bručan will answer. Answer to the first question: The total cost for the Isol High School is 610 million 630 thousand 590 total 84 dollars and if you want after years, in 2003 was about 60 million, in 2004 230 million, in 2005 410 million, then in 2006 14 million. That was the cost. A total of 610 million, for short. On the question of how we feel about this school: I was informed about this from the interview. We didn't know anything about that. Of course, we disagree with that. The fact is that we have invested almost 600 million in this school, we see no reason for the school to move anywhere. As far as this is concerned, as far as the process is concerned, we feel that this would be bad. As for the third part, this is the following questions about Livada: I must say that I am the campus always supports. We're still supporting him today. We never said, "No." The fact is that this matter must first be handled at the University of Primorska. And this matter must be included in their plans, these plans must be confirmed on the Management Board and from this point of view we have certain indications that this is in some far-reaching plan, this is in the 2007-2013 plan, but no funds are foreseen in this part from 2007 to 2008. So when the matter is settled with the land, with whatever they have there, we see no problem here not to go into this investment, but the University of Primorsk has to decide. The problem of the University of Primorsk, if we go back to that question of yours: I am certainly not unfriendly to the University of Primorsk. I would be happy to pay for this if I had the appropriate documents for it. That is to say, there must be accounts to be confirmed on the Management Board. Things must be adopted, as they are called, in accordance with all procedures. The money is available, certain funds are available from credits, but if this has not been accepted, the question is whether these funds can be used for this purpose. With this view, we can give you complete information, if you want, on the financing of the University of Primorsk. Thank you very much. I'll leave time for Mr. Brucan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you. Also Minister Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you very much for that question. Now, even in the very text of the question, I have it in front of me in this quote from the Primorski novice is some inaccuracies. We never said we'd move the high school from the hospital to the center of Izole and use it as an emergency center. I don't remember that. It is true, however, that we were discussing a hospital unit of an ambulance that was supposed to be in the area of Izola Hospital and would be such a central emergency for the entire coast by the hospital itself or in the hospital itself, but we were not talking about a location within the hospital itself. In addition, we have made it clear that it is necessary to strengthen the operation of this service during the summer with certain stations or dislocated units, especially in Lucija, and thus allow for rapid intervention in some of the most urgent cases. Then there is the question of my statement regarding the rescue station: I must say that the funds for this construction were not approved by us. We cooperated minimally. Yeah, we did build a rock together. That's right. But I wasn't there at the opening, and I wish I could have gone, but I didn't have time. This rescue station has its own meaning in Isolah. However, once the hospital unit operates in all its size, if we call it, in the area of the hospital Izola, it will be imperative that the ambulance be there, where there will be a team and there is no alternative to that. There's no way. However, the rescue station can still be located where it is, for other rescue purposes. The ER isn't the only need for ambulances. So I think there's really nothing wrong here. As for the response time for the karst congregations: I guarantee you that from the general hospital it is exactly the same time as from, because you know a better area than I do, but I know that I am right that it is the same time from Izola Hospital as from both stations that are now in Izola and Koper to all the karst congregations that exist. So there's no big difference here. On the contrary, I think it's even a shorter response time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, you want to complete your answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u201	Maybe we take one ambulance and take a test. Knowing the situation in this area, I warn you, as others who know the traffic well know it is not. Otherwise, if Primorske Novice and other media are reporting poorly, it would be good for the minister to have you properly and in good time dissuasively published, even when writing things that do not match the truth. I will also take this opportunity to commend Minister Zupan that we will not only be critical, to sign a letter on the intention to establish, for a seat, possible seat, the Mediterranean University in Piran, if the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership decides to set up and know that they do, here we are all working for it. And I'm going to commend you for, I'd say, but don't mind the salad mortal you made at that time. Remember, two years ago, when I made such calls and made such an initiative, your answers were nothing but affection. Well, I'm glad there's been this change, and you've made this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u202	Thank you very much. In fact, this was not a complementary question, but nevertheless, Mr Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u203	I am back in the same situation as before so that I can use the time to continue what I had somehow failed to complete. The director of the health care station in Koper, is an agreeable, enthusiastic docker, these ideas that things are located for the pre-hospital units at the hospital and not where they are now in health homes. I think they know the place well, they know the response times well, they also know the location and the roads and the road links that exist. So I think it's hard to debate here right now. I don't know the place as well as you do, but in any way the response time from this hospital unit is appropriate for the operation of the emergency service. You also have to believe that I know the ER very well. It will be difficult to discuss the organisation of an emergency, given that I have been Vice-President of the European Emergency Medicine Association for six years and have organised quite a number of these things around the world. I have to say, I'm surprised there are these problems now that we're planning to build an emergency center in Isola. The emergency center for which the coastal municipalities have been working all the time to build it. So I don't think there's gonna be a lot of reservations here and there's going to be this emergency center at the level that these places actually have to have or deserve. This will be an emergency center, not of the highest rank, but a rank of two, without neurosurgery, which will only be in two places in Slovenia, which can also be organised differently. But in any case, this emergency centre will be one of those emergency centres that will enable the actual good functioning of the emergency service, with all the conditions that I have already talked about, notably by setting up dislocated units for individual procedures, as far as the emergency is concerned. In particular, I think that the most dangerous conditions of life, so to speak, are for resuscitation and the like, for which we can also train some other personnel in health care, do not necessarily have to be doctors alone. That much is possible. I could be teaching now about the E.R. for a very long time, but I guarantee you that the response times are appropriate at the hospital if there's a pre-hospital unit there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic is next in line to ask the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member and fellow Members, distinguished Minister and Madam Ministers! Slovenia will chair the European Union in six months. You know that the Slovenian National Party has always been Eurosceptic or Euro-realistic and has warned about all the traps with a lot of good things to say about what will be nice and different. Okay, Slovenia and Slovenia have decided and we have gladly followed the developments and supported - equally - all the demands of the European Union, Parliament, the Council of Europe and demanded that they are all the same. As it is said, in a good half year, Slovenia will preside, and no country in seven years, as I have been monitoring the development of the European Union, which has chaired, has missed the opportunity to overcome some great advantage. And this great privilege was given us by the Council of Europe, called Galileo. He said that Galileo’s headquarters, the European Space Agency, should be in the new Member States, and that there were 10 of us. I warn, and everyone is laughing at this Galileo, and I'm looking for him, and I'm looking for him, and I can't find him, except, thank God we're talking about a declaration tomorrow, on the 40th page of the Council of Europe's priorities, where, of course, I'm reading the perfect book on how Slovenia should work and lobby, if, when it will, it will try to have a seat. But it literally says so, look at the first paragraph on the page. I am very sorry because I think that the minister I am asking is the only one who knows the matter well enough and may not even be involved in his affairs, but unfortunately this area is one of the so-called horizontal issues. Now that they are, I don't know. I am interested in a very specific question: What will, where and when Slovenia has done or lobbyed to Ljubljana - the capital of the country of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also registered, among the first - will be the seat of Galileo.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Thank you so much for the question. Messengers and Members! Good evening. First, I would like to explain certain circumstances to this National Assembly. Some information and some back-up information, too. In December 2003, the Presidents of the governments of the European Union adopted a decision on the European Council, inter alia, saying, "The priorities and distribution of the seats of future agencies and offices should be allocated to the new Member States." So far, this decision has been respected in the establishment of the EU Agency for External Borders, namely Frontex, which is located in Poland, Warsaw and the Institute for Equal Opportunities, based in Lithuania, Vilnius. This Decision is closely linked to the selection of the future seat of the supervisory authority of the Galileo satellite navigation system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has entrusted the Ministry of Science and Higher Education with the management of the working group for Slovenian candidacy. 11 Member States are running for office in this European agency, including 3 new Member States: Slovenia, Malta and the Czech Republic. The election of the seat of the new European agencies shall normally be chaired by the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The final election will be confirmed by the Transport Ministers Council or the European Council in the event of Galilo's seat. Last year, unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the Supervisory Authority, Galileo, took office. The electoral process was launched at the meeting of the Transport Ministers Council on 12.12.2006. The Ministers discussed this issue during the working lunch, where I represented the adopted position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, when choosing the seat of the Supervisory Authority, Galileo should be consistently respected at the outset of the European Council's cited decision. We have represented this position in all international contacts, both at the level of the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Higher Education and Science. In the process of obtaining support from Slovenian candidates, groups of senior state officials who visited the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the European Union were specifically organised for this purpose. In their presentations, they also stressed, as always, the consistency and importance of respect for the Council of the European Union. As you know, the election process for the Galileo Supervisory Board, due to unresolved strategically important issues, at this moment, related to future concessionaires in the Galileo Public-Private Partnership, has stalled. We have also heard this in one of the points at the last meeting of the European Union Transport Ministers' Council. Nevertheless, the promotion and support of Slovenian candidates is being organised further. Over the next six months, in all my anticipated international contacts, I will gain the favor of this candidacy with the European Transport Ministers. I will take a concrete step next Thursday when I meet with my German and Portuguese colleagues in Lisbon. In this case, I will specifically highlight the Portuguese Presidency's opportunity to update the seat selection issue as a country that does not run for office of supervisory authority on the agendas of the Councils. At the same time, as always, I will also stress the importance of the December 2003 European Council decision. In addition, I would like to inform you that I will shortly prepare one special material for the National Assembly, where a detailed Slovenian candidacy for the seat of the Galileo Supervisory Authority will be postponed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u209	I'd like to say thank you very much. A very concrete answer, an example of a concrete answer to the question of what will happen at the meeting of the Minister with the Germans and Portugal and what will happen in this case. But, as you yourself have said, I am also at the beginning, if you have listened to me very carefully, Mr Minister, we regret that you are now the one involved in the market and even the first Galileo is mentioned in maritime transport, when I am quite sure, as you are that this area belongs to the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development. Another time. You have listed very precisely the facts that have probably already been addressed to you by the professional services involved in European affairs in your field. But, you know, I am grateful for the concrete answer, and you must also understand that for us Slovenians and Slovenians in the Presidency, what was said in 2003 on the Council of Europe, what was proposed and you yourself mentioned, are still officially mentioned Malta and the Czech Republic next to Slovenia, but I am afraid, so once again, honourable Minister, I ask you, I am afraid that it will not take over, between us very openly, respected by the President-in-Office of Germany, because these indications are. So I ask you: Have you, as the Ministry of Transport now received Galileo on your shoulders, and me - that I will constantly stand behind your back - whether you have been a witness now, if you have been with me, on the last Council of Europe, whatever I suppose, discussions or arrangements on any exchange, or not to my colleague to get me the University of the Mediterranean, the Germans or anyone else, Galileo? I'm just asking if you heard that or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Minister Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u211	Thank you very much for having an additional answer. Very briefly. The topic that was strongly exposed was mainly the selection of the concessionaire to start negotiations for the future joint group, which will act as one concessionaire. These negotiations are late and no one has opened the question, not officially, not informally, although I have briefly managed to speak with the President, this is German Minister Tiefensee. However, as I have said, we are meeting in a short time, and I think that it will be a real opportunity to see what their position is, or still leave this decision to the later presidents. Very briefly, today it is difficult to predict, but what is good is that we have, after all, such a legal basis on which we will be able to express our veto in the future choice of the candidate country. So we have actual levers in our hands. And given my position, which I said very clearly and openly at last year's meeting, during a working lunch, that Slovenia is a serious candidate, that it fulfils all the conditions and that Slovenia has all the necessary predispositions to ensure that this centre or supervisory authority in Slovenia can function perfectly. It was understood that Slovenia was a good candidate. But speaking from here on out, given the other issues I mentioned earlier on the Committee on International Affairs, the question of the future organisation of the Galileo Committee, the division of roles and functions, is still premature today. Since the information will be properly provided to the National Assembly, we will also keep you informed of any further activities. Finally, it is true that this task is partly given to me, because the President, Commissioner Barrot, is responsible for this project as Commissioner for Transport or Transport. And since this belongs to us under Minister Zupan, we have organised ourselves to lead, in a way, the preparations for all negotiations, procedures and procedures of Minister Zupan, and of course I am participating in this working group with my colleagues. I hope that, further with all the help of the policy, we will be able to win both the MEPs and all those who go to Brussels and are present there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Horvath, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Member, fellow Members, distinguished Madam Minister, Mr Minister! We are all following with great concern the demographic picture of Europe, which is changing. The problem is that it turns into a negative, almost dramatic direction. There is an increasing number of older people or, rather, fewer and fewer births. Of course, in Slovenia too. On the other hand, we face the problem of young people who want to create a family, but they face many problems, such as job search and housing. According to research, young people would decide on a larger number of children if they could find employment and solve the housing problem more quickly, after the study was completed. Madam Minister, I ask you what your efforts are in terms of improving the situation of young people, so that they can find their first job faster, create a family, and consequently decide on a larger number of children? Have you already taken specific measures in this area, and what else might you plan to do? I sincerely thank you for your answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking the Member of Parliament. News on family policy was adopted already in 2006, and some are foreseen this year. In particular, new developments were made in 2006 in the area of the Parental Protection and Family Receipts Act. The right to a shorter working time, due to parenthood, was given a new one and extended to self-employed and farmers. This means that they are entitled to receive social security contributions by the third year of their child's age. However, if they have two children, they will have an older child by the age of 6. The right to partial payment for lost income has also been extended. In this case, one parent who protects two or more children with moderate or severe mental impairment or moderate or severe movemental impairment has the right to do so. The right to an allowance for a large family, three children EUR 350 and four children EUR 427 has also been established. The right to cover social security contributions has also been exercised if the family has four or more children, by the State covering contributions up to the age of 10 of the youngest child in the family. A change has also been introduced in the area of child allowances, namely that it is no longer a condition of permanent residence, but only residence. The law also introduced the use of paid paternity leave, 15 days to 6 months of the child's age and the use of paternity leave up to the age of 3. The law also allowed leave for the care and care of a child, 75 days old, to be transferred to the third year of the child’s age. These were mainly innovations under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act and were also innovations under the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act. If the employer employs a younger person, up to 26 years of age, who is unemployed and registered at the Employment Institute, all contributions shall be reimbursed to the employer for one year. It also reimburses the employer’s contribution for one year. In the event of employment of a person under 28 years of age who is registered at the Employment Office for 24 months. The employer who employs an unemployed person and replaces the worker on maternity leave shall also be reimbursed for contributions up to a maximum of 15 months of maternity leave. However, new amendments are also envisaged this year, with the law on scholarships. A student’s mother may grant a scholarship if the family is increased, even during the academic year itself. It was only at the beginning of the school year. Under the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, students receive five additional vouchers. In the context of the Equal programme, we have also started to implement a programme, a "Family-friendly employment" project aimed primarily at encouraging employers with different rewards and incentives to employ as many young people as possible. The key objective of the project is also to provide young parents with such conditions in their workplaces so that they can implement the principle of integration and coordination of work and family life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We are done with the so-called first round of questions sent. And we have three more questions in the second round. The first is Mrs Pečanova, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, in fact, you've only just recently taken over the business, so you probably haven't had time to get to know all the problems of the ministry. I noticed in the media that when you visited Slovenia, what I have to say about our fishermen - that you encouraged them, in my opinion, when you said that this sector is a marine fisheries sector, I at least understood that it was a marine fisheries, given that you were weak in Istria, and that the ministry is large enough to have a man who would only deal with it. It has to be said that so far the so-called fishing office - you have said today a little longer name that I could never remember - has worked in all these four years in essence only on the basis of the funds of the municipality of Izola, but 1 million have been given by the municipalities of Koper and the municipality of Piran, but only for the last two years. And I think that this decision, that we have set up this fishing office, was very useful, because virtually all the things that have started to happen, was that, if I may use the right word, the pressure on the Ministry of Agriculture actually caused the fishermen to be involved in the preparation of this 2007-2013 programme to include themselves now in the operational programme. I think this thing has moved developments and that the Ministry has also contributed 42 million dollars to the reconstruction of the facility, which, hundreds of years ago, was a small fish market, so that there will be a first place of sale and veterinary supervision. However, strange rumors have begun to spread in Izola, and the author of these is also said to be one of the co-workers in your ministry, working in the field of maritime fisheries control, where the so-called fish market is supposed to be, in fact, the first place of sale and the area of veterinary supervision, is completely unnecessary and it would be better to use the building, which is otherwise in an attractive place, for tourism and hospitality. Is your ministry, Mr. Minister, aware of such ideas? And how will it work if the municipality of Izola changes the purpose of the facility, whose arrangement was co-financed by the Ministry? Secondly: How does the Ministry intend to regulate the area of first sale of fish and, in particular, the system of trade in fresh sea fish in Slovenia, especially since they started raising their voice against the competition of Slovenian fishermen on the market exchange Italian fishermen from the Gulf of Trža? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respected and respected! Thank you for this important question. So, as regards funding: In the 2007 and 2008 Regulation on the financing and co-financing of marine and freshwater fisheries, in line with the common fisheries policy on the market regulation of fish and fishery products, the establishment of the first place of sale this year amounts to €83 000 459 000. The facility will be built in Isola in accordance with veterinary and health regulations and will allow for the first sale of fish at the auction centre. The investor is the municipality of Izola. The deadline for submission of applications for funds is 31.3.2007. So far, our ministry has not been informed that the municipality does not want to continue its construction and run for another part of the funds. The contract, which was signed with the municipality for 2006, lists the rights and duties of both parties, namely the Izola municipality and the Ministry. With regard to the method of first placing on the market, I state that this area is governed by the 1993 Regulation, which will be regulated in more detail by a government regulation currently in interdepartmental coordination, namely, the sale can take place in three ways: the final consumer, the authorised buyer or the auction centre - the fishing market. That's what they say, in three ways. The sale to the final consumer means that a fisherman whose vessel fulfils the prescribed veterinary conditions, fish and fishery products can sell directly by vessels to the final consumer for private consumption up to EUR 20 and not more than 50 kilograms of live weight per day. The sale to an authorised trader or buyer means that a fisherman may sell fish to a wholesaler but must be registered in accordance with the rules of the Veterinary Administration. The third option is to sell on the so-called stock exchange or auction centre, which must operate according to certain rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Even Mrs. Pecanova, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In view of what you have just said, because this regulation, which you are also preparing, I also know - I must say honestly - but it is precisely your fishing inspector, one of both, who interprets it as if this first sale by a vessel was allowed to any extent and therefore it is not necessary to have a place of first sale in accordance with the rules of the regulated area. I have to tell you, the work in that facility is continuing. I think they'll actually be finished in a very short time. However, I must also say that it seems catastrophic for me to say, in particular with the help of the Ministry, because you know, once the Ministry has decided to take part in the regulation of this area, it meant that the Ministry has learned that maritime fishing, despite its very small scale, means something in this country. And so I'm concerned that these appetites for a different purpose, perhaps because of the misinformation of fishermen, could lead to very negative, bad results, and that in fact all the work that has been done so far would actually fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Would you like another word, Mr. Minister? But it's not necessary. I'm still asking. The next one has a question of mag. A trifle for the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. The Act on the Prohibition of the Production and Transport of asbestos Products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of enterprises on the basis of which the State of Slovenia provided the necessary means for the cessation of production, to assist companies in restructuring and to address the social consequences in this regard, i.e. through the previous use of asbestos and then the introduction of replacement production. Similarly, the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos Work was adopted. When we look at these laws, we can see that everything is well taken care of - on the one hand, to remove such asbestos production and, on the other hand, to remedy the consequences. Bojan Goljevšček, who led the Association of Asbestos Trade Unions, probably remember that he brought many people, thinkers, union members, probably also some sick people, here also on the balcony, said that the rehabilitations of companies where asbestos was used had already been completed. Therefore, the focus should be on human health. This was 24.2.2006. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you a question: Are the rehabilitations of companies operating with asbestos already completed? Has asbestos been removed from their production and therefore health is no longer at risk?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The honourable Member, the Basic Purpose of the 1996 Act, is the law banning the production and transport of asbestos products, it says, is the title itself, the immediate and uninterrupted cessation of the production of asbestos cement products, the introduction of unsullied technology and the production of mud cement products, the phasing-out or substitution of other asbestos production into inviolable, as well as the provision of social security for workers as a result of the termination of those products. The restructuring programmes under this law have drawn up all the companies that have had this and the restructuring programmes under this law are concluded. Which means that the production of asbestos cement products is no longer available, nor is the transport of asbestos products. Of course, that was also the heart of the question you asked. Of course, asbestos embedded in buildings, insulation, roof coverings, such as track vehicles, water pipes, and so on. However, the method of handling is prescribed. The Ministry of Environment and Space has a rule on the removal of asbestos and the like. This is where the concentrations of dust particles are measured and so on. In short, certain activities are still under way in this respect. The Ministry of Economy concluded its mission under this Act on the Restructuring and Prohibition of the Transport of asbestos Products. Thus, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Environment and Space and probably others, such as the Ministry of Transport, as regards Slovenian Railways and the like, continue to solve the asbestos problem in accordance with the agreement of the Government. Thus, the recovery of what this production has in some way caused in the past is ongoing, and the ministry's mission has also been terminated by the completion of the restructuring and the cessation of production and transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u226	Thank you very much. More mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u227	The additional question, just what you suggested a little bit, is that the incorporation of some of the elements remained. In particular, I can tell you that this is huge in the Slovenian Railways. To compare, let me tell you that there are about 1,000 kilograms of asbestos products in each car. And in repairing or whatever, including handshakes, also manufacturing and servicing, this asbestos appears and corrupts human health. That's what turned out. See also the Labour Inspectorate in his review of 5.10.2006 about 5 months ago, very high concentrations of asbestos. And that the measure will be more than full, in fact, there is also the fact that this company, i.e. this company, has obtained a certificate for pure production. Therefore, it should also meet these conditions regarding asbestos production, as regards the use of asbestos. I wonder: How will you guarantee this? So it's the authenticity of the certificate. And second: How about the presence of asbestos in such large quantities on Slovenian railways, because it is not in a closed system, but it goes freely after production. Still.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Again, Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u229	As I have already said, the Ministry's mission to stop production and transport of asbestos products has ended. The government, of which you were also a member, has made it very clear that this does not end the asbestos issue and that it is necessary to cut and protect people, users from negative impacts, in these particular cases and problems. And that's what they have to do. Coordination over this, and also in drafting a new law, is at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which you know well. And once again, the issue concerns, in particular, not anymore the production and transport of asbestos products, but the consequences of past use and integration of these elements into systems, vehicles, buildings, installations and so on. I expect that the competent ministries, also in line with your question and initiative, will prevent any negative phenomena in the direction of use, even what exists in maintenance. I would point out, however, that the key issue of production itself because of the impact of asbestos fibres on human health and life by putting an end to production and transport is reduced only to these matters, which you also mention: to service certain insulations, some elements, where, of course, activities must also be carried out under strict safety measures and any exposure to the health of workers must be avoided. At the appropriate treatment, including in Slovenian railways, that of course the worker does not come in contact with the fibers, but is adequately protected for this, of course also to prevent. Of course, the aim is to replace these materials with non-hazardous materials also during regular maintenance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Bevk to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I have repeatedly asked the previous Minister Maria Lukačič about the occurrence of the May bug and the huge damage caused by it. I must say, quite frankly, she has been very actively involved in this issue. My intention is to draw your attention to this problem, Mr. Secretary-General. As a result of the May bug in the municipality of Idrija, we have been suffering a great deal of damage in agricultural plants since 2002, the most affected agricultural land in Zalog, Idrija Log, Črno Vrh and Godovic in the municipality of Idrija and the phenomenon spreads elsewhere in Slovenia. After two consecutive bug years in 2001 and 2004, we are looking forward to a new bug year this year. But the damage has been very severe so far. The Mayan beetles or their larvae literally devour the meadows. In 2005, more than 800 hectares of grassland were destroyed. Some farmers in the affected area also received more than 70% of livestock feed. In such a large population of the May bug, it is not yet yet expected that natural reductions will be expected to a harmless level, so it is necessary to organise the suppression of cucumbers and help affected farms to maintain production and to enable survival. As I have said many times in this National Assembly, farmers even think about selling their livestock because they no longer see the prospect of farming. Since 2007 will again be the third consecutive year in Idrija and Slovenia, I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Iztok Jarc: What will you do to ensure that all the relevant services will react in a timely manner and that there will be no further unacceptable delays in action? Farmers are very concerned with us today, especially on the Black Sea Plano. They don't see a perspective. On my question last December, Minister Lukačič assured me that they knew at the Ministry that 2007 would be the so-called bug year and that, in accordance with good agricultural practice, they would begin to plan to oppress this pest and to ensure an adequate legal basis. To this end, the amendment of the plant health law, which will be submitted to the government procedure in January 2007, has been further assured to me. That is why I am interested, Mr Minister: What has the Ministry done at this time to solve this extremely pressing problem, and what else do you plan to do? I also wonder: When will a plant health law be prepared and what solutions are envisaged in this law regarding the remediation of the problem of the May bug and the consequences of this on agricultural surfaces? How will the damage suffered by farmers be remedied? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking. Your Honor! It's about this problem. The Ministry was actively involved in addressing the problem in 2006, when certain budgetary resources were provided for action, when, in accordance with the programme to prevent the excessive propagation of Polish Mayan cucumbers, injured persons were able to apply for reimbursement of the costs of the measures in 2005 and 2006. This has also been done in part. About the law. In order to provide a legal basis for the implementation of official measures for the operation of outbreaks of harmful organisms which may have the character of major natural disasters, the preparation and adoption of an amendment to the plant health law is ongoing. The proposal will provide an effective basis for action in the entire infected area in order to keep the pest population at an acceptable level and thereby prevent further economic damage. The law is in the final stage of intersectoral coordination. We have also had a meeting at the Ministry on this subject, but we will propose that it should be adopted quickly. Under this law, the adoption of a government regulation setting the limits of a specific surveillance area, measures to prevent the spread and repression of harmful organisms and the costs of implementing the measures prescribed. According to the professional service, this is the Phytosanitary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, due to the developmental biological phase of the Polish Mayan bug in 2007, no new damage will be caused to the grassland. Adult bugs will eat the leaves of the trees and plant the embryos in the grass. However, the development of cucumbers lasts for 3 years. Effective methods of suppression are not available against adult bugs. The information I received from the FURS, although it is envisaged that at the end of August and September 2007 it will start by suppressing the collar larvae and that this will continue in the spring and autumn 2008 and end in the spring of 2009. It is estimated that some 500 000 euros would be needed to suppress today's damage. In view of good agricultural practice, environmentally friendly melocon biodegradable preparation can be used to suppress it, in meadows and in fields the use of the insecticide volatone G5 is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr. Minister for Answers. I would just like to say that farmers in this area are concerned about how to act now that adult bugs take off and when these insects invade this environment. Of course, they will not harm grass, but they will harm the leaves in the trees and otherwise damage will be done. I know that they do not deal with this problem professionally and with the problem of oppressing the May bug as some kind of scientific project. The profession has little knowledge of how to deal with this problem, so I think it would be good to encourage some research project on the issue of the May bug. In fact, it is very difficult to oppress it, in any case to prevent the massive takeoff of this May bug. Some methods must also be taken into account that this area of the Black Sea plantain is an ecologically sensitive area, which is a water catchment area, is a karst world and has an impact on water resources both on the Idrian valley and on the Vipava side. Therefore, this problem needs to be dealt with in a very sensitive way. I'm afraid we're going to miss that natural cycle of this May bug again, or this natural cycle is going to get ahead of action, including the law that's in preparation. Following the assurance of the former Minister, the law was to be adopted by the Government as early as January. It is said that we are about two months behind schedule, so I would like to appeal to you, Mr Minister, to speed up this reception and also to act on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you very much. If there is no need for an additional comment or reply, I thank the whole government team for the answers, as well as fellow Members and Members for the questions. To all those who persist, of course, a pleasant, beautiful spring evening! I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 26th session of our National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. After the new one, of course. Thank you!
