ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, nice greeting! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Jožef Horvat by 3 p.m., Franz Pukšič, Villa Rezman, Dr Mitja Slavinec after 10 p.m. and Mr Janko Weber. We're moving on to the 19th, 20th. IN 21. Period of the day - First defence proposal of the law on leasings, proposal of the law on lovemaking in lands, proposal of the law on financing of lands. The draft laws were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, a group of 14 Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill proposals. Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a license, in charge of local self-government and regional policy, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today's general discussion of the package of provincial legislation is aimed at the most important internal policy issue on the establishment of landscapes in Slovenia at this time. We are therefore starting a process which means the final implementation of the constitutional designs of a state regime based on decentralisation of power. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provided for the establishment of local self-government at two levels, with two types of local communities, municipalities and provinces. Preparations for the establishment of the provinces began with preparations for the establishment of the congregations, that is, more than ten years ago. The establishment of the provinces was explicitly foreseen in the Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the Integration of the European Union. However, the establishment of the provinces was questionable from the outset, for the first time because, under Article 143 of the Constitution, municipalities were to be integrated into the provinces, meaning that they were to be the founders of the province of the congregation. Secondly, because the question is always being asked whether the Republic of Slovenia must also be divided internally into provinces according to its territorial scope. The need for establishing landscapes is indisputable today and can be illustrated, for example, by two indicators. At the level of local self-government, i.e. regional, provincial, we are currently conducting municipalities with a good 5% gross product, generally successful and effective. However, with the introduction of the provinces, this percentage would increase to 11% and would approach European countries. On the other hand, the Development Hazard Index as a criterion for the development of existing statistical regions shows that the relationship between the most developed central Slovenia and the least developed Slovenian region of Pomurjem is about 1 to 20. This trend without establishing landscapes and decentralisation, which is necessary for more equitable development, cannot be mitigated. This is why the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia is necessary, which I am sure is both professional and political. Amendments to Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in June 2006 constitute the first step towards the establishment of provinces in Slovenia. Here goes the thanks to the National Assembly, this reference. The new provisions of Articles 121 and 140 of the Constitution have opened the process of decentralisation of public administration by transferring the performance of State tasks to local communities, thereby enforcing the European principle of subsidiarity in determining the level of implementation of State tasks relevant to each individual. The most important is the amendment to Article 143 of the Constitution. On its basis, the provinces obtained the legal status of self-government local communities. They will be established simultaneously, have the same legal status and tasks throughout the country. The next step in the process of establishing provincial self-government is the adoption of laws that will form the basis for the establishment and functioning of the provinces and will allow the decentralisation of government functions and the transfer of important part of public affairs from the state to the provincial level. The proposed three laws, the Law on Provinces, the Law on Regional Financing and the Law on Regional Elections are based on the constitutional principles of local self-government and the principles incorporated into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Their content is the legal institution of the provincial self-government, which is, however, the same institution as the local self-government in the municipalities but is not the same. The proposed laws regulate the functional and organisational component of the provincial self-government and form the basis for functional and fiscal decentralisation, the establishment of landscapes, the election of their authorities and the establishment and commencement of the work of the provinces as of 1 January 2009. This is a systemic part of the comprehensive normative framework for the establishment of provincial self-government. Proposals for laws propose a timetable for the preparation and adoption of laws that will further regulate the components of the provincial self-government. The proposed laws will be followed this year by the procedure for determining the area of the provinces. This debate is about to end with a proposal for a law on the establishment of landscapes. At the same time, a law will be proposed on the establishment of electoral units for elections in the first provincial council. The main solutions to the proposed laws are based on the professional basis for the establishment of the provinces created by eminent experts in the field of constitutional and administrative law over the past ten years. In addition, the experience gained in Slovenia in the 12-year development of local self-government at the municipal level has been taken into account. The draft legislation was also widely coordinated here in the National Assembly. The proposal for a law on provinces is based on the principles of provincial self-government, the area of the tasks of the provinces and the way in which powers are transferred to the provinces and the organisation of the provincial authorities and the provincial administration. The law regulates the procedure and means of ensuring the conditions for the entry into operation of the provinces, i.e. spatial, human and material. The draft law defines the province as a city the level of local self-government between the State and the municipalities and as a territorial political administrative community with the position of a legal person with exceptional powers, with its own property and own resources of funding and directly elected representative body and own administration. The work area of the province's tasks is defined in accordance with Article 143 of the Constitution as matters of local importance, matters of regional importance, tasks of State competence delegated to the provinces and to maintenance. Local affairs are of greater importance than tasks that need to be done in the interest and for the benefit of more municipalities in a more cost-effective, efficient way. Although the fundamental principle of the delimitation of powers between the State, the province [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the municipalities, and by law, it is stipulated that individual matters of wider importance are determined by the province by its decree if the municipalities agree. [[...]] The tasks of regional importance are those of no local importance, but they are not of national importance, of urban importance, of regional importance. Such tasks include in particular the promotion of coherent regional development, economic development, tourism, agriculture, environmental protection and spatial planning, the construction and maintenance of public roads, regional importance, secondary and higher education, social services, the provision of hospital and specialist health care, the provision of public interest in culture at regional level, etc. The provinces will also carry out a certain part of the tasks of the state administration, which are now carried out by administrative units. These are individual tasks of national competence, such as decision-making on legal matters in areas related to the tasks of regional importance, i.e. in the field of economy, agriculture, tourism, hospitality, construction of facilities and intervention into space. Part of the inspection tasks will also be transferred to the provinces. The proposal for a law regulates the gradual introduction of a single administrative system which combines the execution of state and pension administrative tasks at the provincial level and is the only acceptable way for Slovenia, as a small country, to carry out the decentralisation of the country in the long term. It is more rational than a two-tier administrative system, which would have been established if the country had kept even deconcentrated administrative authorities in the provinces. A concrete transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces from 1 January 2009 will be by means of the Law on the Transfer of Orders under the jurisdiction of the Provinces, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has classified in its 2007 Work Programme and corresponding amendments and additions to the Area Laws. The bill will be submitted to the National Assembly in the autumn and is now in preparation. As we speak of the jurisdiction of the provinces, we must stress that, in accordance with the principles of local self-government as self-governance local communities, they carry out the tasks of their own competence under the Constitution and the law. Functional autonomy means defining its own labour area of the province, which expresses the common needs, interests of its inhabitants and can carry out them independently and has sufficient resources of funding and property to which it can own, with the competent national authorities monitoring only the legality of the work of its authorities. The provincial self-government, in accordance with constitutional principles and the European Charter of Local Self-Government, shall be implemented directly by the provincial councils and their executive authorities and the inhabitants of the province. However, it is also necessary to ensure that the two levels of local self-government are linked, and the law also places the council of municipalities among the provincial authorities. The proposal for a law in accordance with Article 3 of the European Charter on Local Self-Government provides that the highest decision-making body of the province is a provincial council composed of members elected by voters with permanent residence in the province by a proportional electoral system. The determination of the number of the provincial council is left to the province's statute in accordance with the criteria laid down by law for the composition of the provincial council. In the provincial council of the provinces with municipalities in the area where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, a representative of the national communities will be a member of the provincial council. The province in which the municipalities in which the Roma community lives will have a permanent working body of the Regional Council for Roma Affairs. At the same time, the President of the Regional Council is the President of the Region, who performs the executive function of the province and represents and represents the province. The president of the province shall be elected by the provincial council from among its members. A council of municipalities will be established in the provinces. The Council of Municipalities is the consultative body of the Regional Council, which is composed of mayors of municipalities from the region. The Council of municipalities shall examine and give an opinion on individual matters of general interest and interest to individual or all municipalities. The proposal for a provincial law specifically regulates the relationship between municipal authorities and provincial authorities. The Regional Administration shall manage administrative, professional, acceleration and development tasks as well as tasks related to the provision of public services under regional jurisdiction. It will be organised on a case-by-case basis with regard to the provincial powers of the provincial administrative authorities. The government will lay down by regulation the provision of personnel, spatial and other conditions for the start of the province's work. The bill provides that the personnel core of the provincial administration is to be ensured by the transfer of public servants employed in public administrations. The proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces is based on the starting points that are now real. Therefore, there is no increase in the public financial framework, no new tax resources and as sources of funding we have a completely uneven distribution of tax resources and the provinces must ensure the functioning of the tasks entrusted to them. The Land Financing Act will therefore provide the provinces with an estimated amount of income corresponding to their respective powers and will enable the implementation of its own policy. The bill provides for funding sources for the province. In order to finance the mandatory tasks of the landscapes other than from investments, resources from income and individual excise duties shall be allocated. A country which does not cover the appropriate expenditure with the said resources shall receive financial compensation from the State budget for the financing of the mandatory tasks. For the development needs of the province, 25% of the tax on the income of legal persons paid in the preceding year by an ally established in its territory shall be paid. It is determined that the uneven inflow of these revenues is offset. Thus, the province under this tax may receive a maximum of 150% of the share per capita in each financial year, but not less than 100% of the average amount of the tax on the income of legal persons per capita in the country. This provides all the provinces with a basic resource for carrying out development investment tasks. Other sources of financing for the landscapes are dedicated sources of funding that will need to be specifically defined in sectoral laws, proportionately delegated tasks, such as concessions. The additional resources of the State budget and the European Union fund are intended to co-finance development programmes and more concrete investment projects. The draft law on elections to the province provides for a system of elections to the provincial council, namely electoral law, electoral system, electoral bodies, general elections, early and alternate elections, candidateing, voting and electoral outcomes, and the protection of electoral law. The bill is based on the principles of local self-government based on the constitutional arrangements of the local self-government of the Republic of Slovenia and the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The main solutions to the law are as follows. Elections in the provincial council shall be carried out through a professional electoral system, ensuring a proportionate distribution of mandates and thus the equal representation of political parties and lists. The province is necessarily divided into constituencies; at least five candidates are elected in the individual constituency. The term of office of the provincial council shall be five years. Dear Members! The establishment of landscapes means the decentralisation of the country, which means the acceleration of more coherent polycentric development, means the provision of comparable conditions for work and life in all parts of Slovenia. The establishment of landscapes means the transfer of an important part of public affairs from the state to the provincial level, at which they are more easily and better aware of the needs in their environment and respond more quickly to them, so that they come closer to people and increase their benefits. In our internal political life, the landscape regime will also bring new quality, and this is a greater responsibility for individual areas for their faster and more balanced development. It also means, according to the saying of Primož Trubar,'state and stay', the situation throughout the territory Slovenia has, so I am confident that today's debate will lead in this direction and also help to improve the proposed legislation within possible frameworks, because I believe that we all want a successful developmental landscape. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maria Possonec asked because at 10 a.m., she was detained if she could not only be eight, but now in the beginning she presented her position. Does anyone object to skipping the order? No, no, no. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maria Possonec, who will present the position of the Group of the People's Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u4	Nice greeting and thank you for your understanding, Mr President, and also your colleagues. The introduction of the provinces mainly entails functional and fiscal decentralisation of governance in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. The provinces are thus to carry out their tasks independently, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws for the benefit of their inhabitants, in accordance with the principles of local self-government, i.e. also for members of Hungarian and Italian nationalities. I would not analyse the laws, only from the point of view of the national community would I present the comments we have on this law. In general, I can say that the lawmakers have not worked too hard to put the work and life of the national community into this law, so our concepts of marriage are very, very weak. Just a few comments. The provinces, which will also include national mixed areas, must have a bilingual name. This has never been dreamed of by law-makers. Bilinguality is also used meaningfully in these provinces for signatures and symbols of its own. The provincial administration in the provinces, which cover ethnically mixed areas, operates bilingually. Is this expressed enough in Article 11 of this Law? What tasks will the state delegate to regions related to the protection of national communities and the protection of specific minority rights, especially collective rights? Is there anything else besides education and education and culture in the language of indigenous national communities and the economic basis of indigenous national communities? It is not specified how many representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities will be represented in the regional councils. Will this percentage be 10%, as in the municipal councils? Furthermore, the question is whether the regional councilors of the Italian and Hungarian national communities will have an imperative or a representative mandate? The Commission for the National Community should also have jurisdiction among labour bodies in the provinces, including national mixed areas. On a proposal from the President of the province, the Ukrainian Council shall elect one or more Vice-Presidents of the province. I propose that, in the event that the President of the province, which includes national mixed areas, is not a representative of the national community, which he will certainly not, be elected as one of the Vice-Presidents of the Regional Council of the National Community representative elected on the special list of the national community. At the time of the acquisition of public servants from the state administration to the provincial administration, including national mixed areas, the question of the knowledge of Italian and Hungarian or bilingual staff in the provincial administration is raised. The issue of cooperation between the umbrella self-governing national communities and the provinces, including national mixed areas, is also raised. There are also some comments on the draft law on elections in the provinces. The special provincial electoral directory consists of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. It is therefore certain that in elections we must also have this electoral directory by which members of nationalities can choose their representatives in the provincial councils. One of the members of the provincial electoral commission in the provinces, including ethnically mixed areas, is a representative of the Italian or Hungarian national communities. A point should be inserted on the composition of the electoral committees for the election of candidates, members of the national community, into the provincial council. In the constituency-mixed areas, vowels are bilingual. Votes for the election of representatives of the national communities are held in the language of the national community and in the constituents of the national mixed areas, the electoral announcements are bilingual. Does the same apply to voter records? The announcements and minutes for the election of representatives of the national community shall be in the language of the national community. Since there are so many shortcomings in these laws, I cannot support the laws. And that doesn't comfort anyone else to have another, a fourth marriage to put all of this in the right place. This fourth law should be seen first and then voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction, I sincerely hope that Friday, 13th, will work well for the establishment of the provinces, including for those who may be a little superstitious. It has been a year since we amended the three articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and made it possible to prepare, treat, adopt and implement provincial legislation. The very constructive role of the majority of the opposition and the commitment to regionalism and thus the decentralisation of Slovenia were necessary conditions to ensure the necessary two-thirds majority here in the National Assembly to change the constitution. By that time, we had been informed that the laws of the provinces were ready, but that was not the case. For quite some time, we had to ask both the minister and the president. Government, what is the promised legislation. If we consider the delay, we must admit that Dr. Zhagar and his associates are ready for the agreement and our cooperation. He also took a few of our comments into account in the drafting phase. With the amendment of the Law on the Financing of Landscapes, our reason for opposing further consideration of the package of provincial legislation as a whole has also fallen away. After the Government has adopted and forwarded legislation to the parliamentary procedure, it is our assessment that a substantive debate has begun, which will be put to the vote in favour or against the proposed innovations in the field of local self-government at the end of the process. The content, the degree of complexity and some confusion led us to demand a general discussion, which the Rules of Procedure allow us to do. In setting the agenda for the Social Democrats' Group, we did not support the withdrawal proposal, because we are confident that the same content would meet us in the autumn. In this way, we will use today's debate as a viable debate, which, at least so I hope, will be a good basis for the Minister, the Government and the Coalition to prepare quality amendments for the second reading of these laws. In doing so, I should like to point out that we are looking forward to this in the Group of Social Democrats, and the Minister can also see this as a condition for our continued cooperation and support, the package of legislation and its simultaneous treatment and adoption at the same meeting. So also the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, which will answer the question of how many provinces, how many large provinces, their territorial scope and also the headquarters of the provinces, and the law on electoral units for the first elections in the provincial councils. Of course, we also expect a so-called technical law, which we consider to be very substantive in our Group of Social Democrats, which will accurately define the tasks that are transferred from country to country. It is probably not unreasonable for us to expect to have enough accurate calculations or simulations of the financing of the provinces by then. We still do not believe that this legislation, this project, will be financially neutral. It is urgent to present the costs on one side and the advantages on the other, which will be reflected in more coherent regional development. We are also expecting a human resources scheme which will deny the anticipated additional employment and thus new costs. In 2004, in the previous mandate, the Ministry of the Interior, led by Mr Rado Bohinc at the time, prepared documents and studies on the provinces in Slovenia 2000-2004. This document found that reforms of local self-government are a constant in all countries, including those with long-standing participation of residents in public affairs. The issue is the distribution of powers between the country and local communities, decentralisation, and resources to finance these local communities, which must provide sufficient resources and financial autonomy. Otherwise, we get disabled local communities and we can only talk about local self-government conditionally. However, local self-government allows the principle of subsidiarity to be respected in practice. In order to effectively implement this principle of subsidiarity, the province is also, according to the European Charter of Regional Self-Government, the most appropriate level of authority. In the midst of the country’s fragmentation into 210 municipalities, which have been well received in their daily lives, we have, in our desire for self-government, additionally centralized the country and at the same time left an empty space between the congregation and the country. And there's something else about the number of landscapes. In the past, we have had several options prepared and also arguments for their implementation. The profession advocated the solution of eight provinces. Dr. Šmidovnik, in an interview with the weekly Mladina, asked why the eight provinces, he replied, quote: "Because the provinces would be stronger. If the landscapes are expected to be a carrier of regional development, it is clear that eight regions in economic, financial, personal, in short any sense, will be stronger", the end of the quote. There are 14 provinces proposed in the works that the Government has forwarded to the public debate. This number was assessed as a political reality as a number that has the necessary support in the National Assembly. In view of the comments and the debate heard so far, the spirit has already escaped from the bottle. It will be very difficult for people who want a new province to explain that the number 14 is still acceptable. And what can happen to us once again when until the vote it was always unclear how many will be created, which will be urban and how many will be new. For the Group of Social Democrats, the number of provinces is not the most important. However, the answer to the question is how closely linked to the question of what the content of these landscapes will be. However, when establishing the provinces, we must clearly have such functional, financial, material, territorial, organisational, including personnel, and a legal picture of the province. A trip to the unknown could be too risky for all of us. In spite of everything in the Group of Social Democrats since its inception, we have advocated a two-step local self-government since the beginning of local self-government. So are the provinces. For many years, in this Parliament, a long-standing parliamentarian, Dr Ciril Ribičič, has sought regionalisation for decentralisation against centralisation. And he listed several arguments in one of his contributions. Let it be allowed to use a few of them to substantiate the fact that we really need the provinces. In the first argument of the diversity of Slovenia he wrote that Slovenia is a country of the provinces. Its characteristic lies in the diversity of its individual parts, both relating to historical extraditions, the degree of development, other characteristics of economic and cultural development, linguistic and other specificities, the breakdown of the territory, the population, etc. Such a diverse country should be organised, regardless of its size, in such a way as to give an expression of particularity in the management of its landscapes in accordance with their specificities. The argument of invalidity of regulation. The reform of local self-government carried out under the new constitutional regime has so far been very one-sided. It restricted itself to the first level of self-government organisation, namely the formation of municipalities and the centralisation of powers that were once exercised by large municipalities as communes and neglected the regionalisation of the state. This is even more urgent today than in the past, as the reform has at least tripled the gap between small municipalities that have lost many powers and centralised state administration. The gap between the congregation and the country is so great that we can talk about the disability of the current organisation. The development element is also important. Regionalisation of the country can contribute to Slovenia's balanced regional development. The differences between the central and peripheral regions have only increased over the last decade. Among other things, because the provinces were not established. Of course, it is possible and must be organised so as not to endanger the position and authority of the congregations and to increase the impact of the congregations on the exercise of the province and the country as a whole. The municipalities, apart from the city’s, today do not perform almost any of the most important functions that would make sense to bring them to the provinces, so that they will have to receive their powers and resources from the state, not from the municipalities. The guarantee that the provinces will not endanger the municipalities is consistent with the principle of subsidiarity as a fundamental principle of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, not only in the relationship between the State and the future provinces, including between the latter and the municipalities. So between the provinces and the municipalities. If I use a European argument. It is not just about taking advantage of the experience of local self-government in Europe and applying the principles to which the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the orientations of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe binds us, but it is also about enabling Slovenia to cooperate more effectively and more equally with the regions of neighbouring and other European countries and drawing funds to accelerate regional development from the Structural Funds of the European Union. The available resources are much higher than the cost of a rational regionalisation of the country. These are the arguments written in his contribution by Dr Cyril Ribičič, as I said, a longtime parliamentarian who has sought to decentralise the Republic of Slovenia. Today, we are not particularly aware of the following fundamental answers that need to be answered before the adoption of the entire package of provincial laws, which was also the condition of the Social Democrats in the previous talks between the parties. In fact, it is not yet clear what will happen to the areas of the individual provinces, which has an important impact on their position and ability to carry out the tasks delegated, as these areas will only be known after the current public debate, which takes place in the municipalities and in the professional political public. So far, however, a large number of comments indicate difficulties in determining the areas of the provinces that will satisfy at least most municipalities at the agreed starting point so that the number should not increase beyond 14. It is not yet known what will actually be transferred to the provinces, as this will depend on the adopted, so-called technical law to regulate this as a change to almost 40 laws and other regulations. The working areas of the province's tasks are defined by the fact that in many areas the province assumes a number of tasks of regional importance, in the areas of regional development, environment and space, education and sport, health, economy, transport, culture, work, family and social protection, agriculture and protection and resolution, as defined in Article 13 of the Act, which does not show what these tasks are and to what extent, as this will depend on the amended legislation, this is from the so-called technical law. Therefore, it is not yet possible to predict what resources and personnel will be needed to do so. It would be very unrealistic to adopt a package of provincial legislation without this data. Specific simulations of the necessary means to carry out the tasks of regional importance and of the personnel to be transferred from country to country and necessary to carry out the tasks of the provinces are not prepared. A number of issues relating to the provision of economic and non-economic public services are raised and it is not clear when rules will be adopted to provide by law certain tasks of municipalities and local public economic and non-economic services, which are common areas of several municipalities referred to in Article 12 of this Act. Although the majority concept of the province's organisation by transferring development and administrative functions to the provinces has been adopted, there are still many open questions about the dynamics and way in which administrative functions are transferred. We are not sure that the planned districts are a good journey along with the provinces for the provinces of the amphibians, but in the preparation of the Law on State Administration, which introduces 14 administrative districts and does not overlap with this law. In addition to these basic issues, new dilemmas are being raised in public debates, which will also have to be addressed before the final adoption of the package of provincial laws. These are the direct or indirect elections of the president of the province, the delegated tasks of the country, the technological and economic function of the provinces, the role of the Council of Municipalities and so on. In addition to the Law on the Establishment of the Provinces, the Law on the Financing of the Provinces is the most important and most demanding of the package of provincial legislation. I believe that at the outset all doubts must be resolved as to whether they hold often-mentioned claims about the establishment of the provinces as a public-funded neutral operation. There is no doubt that the new provinces will increase public costs and if we want to ensure their success, it is clear that there will be some additional money needed to do so. It is very naive to expect that national human resources tasks will be transferred to the provinces for the functioning of the provinces and that there will be no new employment and no additional costs by setting up the landscapes as a place to provide other necessary conditions for normal work. But it is not a fundamental problem whether new and higher public financial costs will arise, but whether we will achieve a new development momentum through the establishment of the landscapes and, above all, we will be able to ensure more equitable regional and polycentric development by using our own resources and resources of the European Union. If the expectations of the successful work of the provinces are met, the slightly increased public financial costs will also be met. The main problem is that we are in the dilemma of whether this will be achieved still leaves the Proposal for a Law on the Financing of Landscapes. We do not have enough analysis and data to at least make sure that there are no problems with the functioning of the provinces and, above all, that we can see that the fundamental development role of the provinces will take place. Since the first drafts, the law has undergone a number of changes in the right direction, but we are still convinced that no one in this country can answer with the expected certainty the questions about the necessary means to operate a particular province. The first issue is the funds for the current tasks of the provinces, as set out in the very framework of the Lands Act and should require more than €910 million. These would be financed in accordance with the proposal of the law by the income of the provinces, by a derogation from the part of taxes and by financial compensation, as the revenue from the law of certain shares of income and excise duty is intended to finance the appropriate consumption of the province in which the provision of certain decentralised activities is covered. Therefore, the proportion of the provinces, general taxes provided for by the Constitution or the law, represents their own source of revenue, which has been under discussion for some time now whether in this case it is actually the fiscal independence of the provinces. The answer to this question will certainly have to be found before we decide on the way to finance the provinces, as is now stated in this text that we have in our consideration. It is also undeniable for the Social Democrats that, on the basis of solidarity, it is necessary to provide the necessary resources for the work of all the provinces. But simulations that show that there will be a need for financial alignment in the vast majority of the established provinces remind us of a story about the financing of municipalities that is not good. Indeed, tax resources are highly unevenly distributed across the country and it is therefore difficult to find autonomous tax resources for most of the province, the developmental motivation of those who expect compensation from the country for their work, regardless of the results, is very questionable. The second issue is investment and development programmes, which should also be the basic development function of the provinces, estimated at more than €255 million and financed by income from corporate income tax. This is supposed to be the only autonomous source on which the provinces can count in their development function and which can also be directly affected. These funds are expected to join EU or state budget funds estimated at just under €165 million. Together, some more than €400 million of development funds should be made available, which is not small, but no one can ensure that part of these funds would not be spent to cover the costs of the province's current tasks if the resources from the resources withdrawn were not sufficient. The funding of the tasks transferred is estimated at some over EUR 20 million and is financed under the draft law from the state budget. If I made a few more concrete remarks, I would particularly stress the country's over-the-counter role in decision-making on individual issues of financing for the development of the provinces. Thus, the Government adopts a series of rules and decisions without the participation of the provinces and irrespective of their will, which is very controversial in terms of the autonomy and autonomy of the provinces. Thus, the state or government or the ministries make a very important decision on investments. The additional resources of the State budget for co-financing individual tasks or programmes and investments are provided to the provinces in Article 17 of the Land Financing Act, Article 19 of the State budget provides additional funds for the co-financing of investments for the implementation of the coherent regional development measures included in the development plans of the regional budgets, Article 19 of this Law on the financing of landscapes for co-financing of investments shall be allocated to the provinces in accordance with the investment co-financing programmes and the criteria set by the ministers, I underline, and the criteria set by the ministers responsible for each area, Article 21 of this Act. The appropriate use of the Government by regulation shall be specified in more detail which expenditure shall be taken into account when establishing the appropriate amount of funding for the tasks of the provinces and the methodology for the calculation of the appropriate amount of expenditure in each area of the tasks and the calculation of the average amount in Article 12. These provisions will need to be carefully examined and examined, in practice, as a level of co-financing is envisaged for investments up to 100%. The country's over-representation in these decisions can greatly change the actual financial independence of the provinces and significantly change the comparisons between the provinces resulting from the legislation adopted. It is also very controversial that important elements of financing of the landscapes are adopted annually, which prevents the long-term certainty of the landscapes as regards funding sources and thus restricts the development plans of the landscapes. The formula for calculating the appropriate consumption referred to in Article 14 should, according to our assessment, also take into account the elements of daily migration that would be identified in relation to daily labour migration between individual provinces. This is particularly important because the rural development index, which has an important impact on the calculation of appropriate spending, also the number of jobs per number of active inhabitants of the province, although jobs in the individual province are not always occupied by the inhabitants of the region. Therefore, this information does not have a significant impact on the level of unemployment and on the developmental situation of the province. The wording of Article 15, which provides that if the province's income is higher than the calculation of the appropriate consumption by more than 15%, this surplus is reduced by half, by 50%, we do not consider that this is stimulating for the provinces emerging from the average. It is necessary to consider that the financial settlement is financed from other sources. Whoever listened to the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, he could conclude that many questions and dilemmas remained unanswered and that there would still be a lot of substantive interventions needed throughout the package. I hope that the bill-makers, who also bear the burden of responsibility for the further development of local self-government, will be successful in enforcing so far the readiness of the majority of parliamentary groups to complete the country-building project in this mandate, but not for all costs and not for the provinces, which will be dedicated to themselves and will only be an additional cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Minister with a team and colleagues, colleagues! Mr Kontic started his performance with good wishes and a traveller to this package of legislation on Friday 13th, and I am adding another Friday, because I have been authorized by Mr Miro Petek to join him in these good travelers, because he will not be later. In Slovenia, in the last ten years, there has been more or less intensive thinking and activity in establishing the provinces. I think it is due to this House that it has moved from words to actions. This Parliament has made it possible to amend the Constitution and thus allow for the actual start of the establishment. I hope we are talking about the actual beginning of the constitution, not just the consideration of laws. It is progress that has been evident in these three years. Some who remember the beginning of this Parliament and the coalition treaty, as well as the "hearing" of the current one, then the candidate for Minister, Mr. Žagar, remember how some said that it was necessary or possible to establish in Slovenia the provinces from below, i.e. with some of the own will of the inhabitants and the policies of the local environment. It turns out that this is not going to work without a change of constitution. Today, however, we are faced with the fact that these conditions are met. We also welcome the knowledge and awareness of most of us that the existence of landscapes is, in fact, a condition for the development of the Slovenian state, and the knowledge that quality development cannot be directed from just one place. The time and period of transition and the possible need to do so from the centre, from Ljubljana, is over and I believe that there are real possibilities for this thing to be distributed or decentralised. It has also become clear that overly centralised or too narrow local policy initiatives do not lead to coordinated development and produce many negative effects in many areas. As a traveling companion for activities in establishing or adopting this legislation, we must also have experience in setting up congregations. The story that began in 1995 with regard to the congregations must also guide us not to work and not to make similar mistakes. While some will say that these were not mistakes, I think we can generally say that there have been more mistakes than the right decisions in the way the congregations were established and the development of the congregations. The LDS Group acknowledges to Mr Žagar that it has chosen the right way of communicating with the parliamentary groups. It was active and this activity was followed by us, because we have participated and sat on many occasions in joint coordination, the assessment of documents that have matured, grew, and I believe that there is only a much more coherent basis for decision-making ahead of us than in the many laws that we are adopting in Parliament. And here I have to say again that the practice that is welcome and welcome. While our opinion is that the Office of the Government or the Government itself, led by the Minister, may have done too little to involve the general public in these activities, so as to involve quite a number of Slovenian experts who, according to our opinion, have been eliminated from this active role of cooperation, and that this debate or writing has been more closed within the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Parliament itself. And here, in my opinion, some of the weaknesses of this law, which would probably have been created with debate and controversy within the profession and experts in Slovenia, were undeniably largely created at that time, in connection with international law, we think that the shortcomings of this legislation could be addressed and better. As it is said, at the beginning of this procedure the Government first thought and also submitted one concept of laws, then four laws, to parliamentary groups. Later, there was a change, and we met only three laws, and these quarters again stormed the spirits. This quarter is also a reason for the LDS to question whether it is appropriate and the right time to deal with and adopt this legislation. From a legal, substantive point of view, we do not see great reservations in the Liberal Democracy Act and in the Electoral Law, they are not very controversial, except for the individual details that will be listed later. They are also aligned with other parliamentary groups, i.e. these content and these aspects. A few more questions exist in the law that speaks of financing the provinces. Remember that at the beginning of this meeting, the LDS Club proposed the withdrawal of the law on elections in the provinces, the law on the provinces and the law on the financing of the provinces, because this debate showed that these laws were not suitable for further consideration precisely because there were dilemmas related to this fourth law, the law establishing the provinces. If we want to actually and fully assess the financial and other consequences of the package of provincial legislation, it is necessary, so we considered that in the National Assembly we are considering the three proposals of the law together with the fourth, the law establishing the provinces, which should define the number and size of the provinces, the territorial size, the number of inhabitants. Only then would it be easier to assess whether the tasks, the powers of the provinces, as set out in the legislation so far, are appropriate, since we believe that it is precisely because of these data on the number, size, including the seats, that it is questionable whether it is possible to simplify such legislation today in view of developments. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we were confident at the time, and we are still convinced that by considering these three laws, we would have waited until the adoption of the fourth or adoption of the fourth provincial law, we would have contributed to greater coherence in the country's legislation and thus anticipated and prevented a lot of problems that we would and we believe will surely face in the future. Especially since we have witnessed the division of the Republic of Slovenia into provinces since the beginning as a single position of both the general public and the mayors, and not least political parties, both coalition and opposition. We are still convinced that the withdrawal of these three points and the continuation of the fourth would facilitate agreement on the regulation of the entire province's legislation. As for the number, although we do not yet have this law, we believe that it will be difficult to unify views and believe and believe and join those who think or think that some part of political decision-making is likely to be necessary, but we believe that when political decision is made, there should be more weight on professional arguments, politically only that point that would make possible a possible dilemma. The provinces must follow developmental, demographic and other common denominators, representing a circular and meaningful social, territorial unit. During this period, proposals from 3, 6, 8, 12, 14 and several provinces appeared in the professional public. As a result, we believe that until these main elements of this law are known, it will be difficult to reach agreement at this stage on the content of some of these laws as well. In view of the fact that the applicant has drawn up a working draft, we have seen then, a proposal for a law on the establishment of landscapes, which provides for the establishment of 14 provinces, and I believe that such a proposal would encourage a desire for a further excessive developmental inadequate membership of the country, which has already begun to appear in the debates that are taking place in local environments and that this debate on local environments is not concluded, it is one of the elements that we would have to wait for in autumn time after our assessment. Otherwise, we will have 14 more provinces now. Ljubljana, and obviously Pleščko, and Dolenjska, and Zgornjegorenjska, North and South-Ljubljana, so where is this border and where is the end of this debate, is not visible today. For no one invented these numbers 6 and 8; these were created in the light of the criteria that were clear in the course of the course. As a result, we note that today, when it seems, these criteria have been too forgotten and more built on a political consensus. The Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe has also called on Slovenia to define new borders, the borders of new regions in a law that will take into account current divisions - such as statistical regions - so we already have one court here that could lead us in the formation of this provincial legislation. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that the number of inhabitants in each province should not be less than 100,000. These were also the professional arguments that were mainly advocated by those who, according to the professional criteria, prepared the proposal; in this 14-land bill, of course, this criterion is significantly underestimated and this is a dilemma that we will feel in autumn. During the Lands Act, which discusses the powers and tasks of the Liberal Democracy, we do not actually see a great dilemma at the moment. We are waiting, as is likely for everyone else, and we expect that the amendment of these 40 laws will, of course, give a precise description of the tasks actually performed by the provinces. While this is not the case, it is of course difficult to determine whether certain provinces are capable of performing these tasks or not, and this is again one of the reasons why we doubt whether it is wise to adopt this legislation without the fourth law. I can also illustrate this with, say, some parallels when I talk about the environment I come from, let's say Maribor, which is the province of Maribor, which is supposed to have 270 thousand inhabitants, for no one disputed by size at least, but I can tell you right now that we also have human resources in Maribor when we're looking for people for administration. In fact, people in the administration don't want to work anymore, they don't want to work anymore because there is no incentive for good work, and if anyone thinks and underestimates this question of the human resources capacity of such smaller provinces, which have 46 thousand inhabitants, 37, 57 thousand inhabitants, 68 thousand inhabitants, I think the issue underestimates. And until we know exactly what will be passed on, what tasks will be accurately transferred to the provinces, of course, this is one of the issues that should be seriously considered, even though someone would say that people from Ljubljana will return and work in their areas. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that it will be difficult to redistribute people's decree into their local or domestic environments and that it will, of course, be necessary to respect their will. If you're not willing, of course, there'll be a shortage of personnel. We also have the question of whether smaller provinces will be able to perform some very, very important tasks in areas such as culture, health care, higher education, and also some of the more difficult sports activities. We believe that it is much easier to work qualitatively, of course, these activities to carry out and guide and guide in a larger region in which, of course, the potential is much more and in which the quality of such activities can be essentially better and therefore these are one of the dilemmas that will arise here. It is clear that the second or very important dilemma, whether or not decentralisation of the country's tasks to the provincial level in the manner envisaged, is probably even more at this point in 14, to the provinces to bring us incentives or increases from public finances for the work of the State and the provinces. Nowhere in the world is there really a very clear simulation of how many personnel, such as are now proposed, would need these provinces. Is it really possible for the public administration to draw on the staff that we are actually going to use or that we are going to employ in individual provinces and that it will not be just this human resources aspect of new employment, new costs and new increases, that is, the scope of public finances. And since neither are any simulations of financial resources made, especially for individual types of resources, and by common means for individual regions, we simply do not know whether this transformation will bring incentives or greater spending on public finances. These are fears that we still do not have an answer to today, and I hope that we will receive this answer in the autumn period. If we touch on more issues of unity. In LDS, we do not dispute and we are adherents, and we believe that uniformity in the performance of the tasks at the provincial level is appropriate because the dilemma is still open, at what rate, we believe that it is necessary to do so as soon as possible, because the long redeployment and transfer of tasks does not produce effects, blur the ability to act or miss that active readiness in the initial period and it seems to us that such gradual transfer of the tasks of the state administration to the provincial level can be counterproductive. I would like to point out once again that if we talk about later, and if we are to point out in these laws that the Law on the Provinces or the Establishment of the Provinces is later drawn up, we should not make a mistake in allowing us not to adopt into law the criterion that speaks of the number of inhabitants that is the condition for the establishment of the province. If we allow the number to be what it is now, so that the smallest province of 46,000 inhabitants will be, we are confident that we will continue to have the experiment of a wide range of environments after the fragmentation of this province's organisation, and therefore again we appeal to all Members, of course, to the Minister to reconsider and reconsider whether the proposal we know now is the number of inhabitants with such small numbers that are once known, appropriate or would not really seek a solution to the reduction of the number that we consider best - that is, 8 landscapes that would probably bring the lower limit of about 100, 120 thousand inhabitants. The criteria that should be incorporated into the law or in the laws that would prevent the establishment of the provinces from being established later. This would in some way remedy those expectations or those requirements that the SNS had when it wanted the provinces to actually be established in the constitution. Well, it's hard to do it in the constitution, but we believe it's possible to do it in laws. Unlike the Social Democrats, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have no doubt that the most appropriate indirect election of the president of the province is in the Electoral Law in the provinces. We believe that we have actually seen a weakness in direct, that is, direct, election of mayors in some major environments. I do not deny that in smaller environments it is also appropriate to elect mayors on a direct basis, but in larger environments this has proved to be a weakness. And according to our opinion, it would also be a weakness to put the direct elections of the provinces, the president of the provinces, into this legislation. For this reason, we believe that this part of the law that talks about elections to the provinces is good. If I go to that part of the law that's probably a little bit controversial with a lot of people and most of them, it's the Land Funding Act. In fact, I would start by believing that Minister Žagar was trying to find all the possibilities to find a way to convince the Minister of Finance or the Government to create an opportunity to get some real independence from the province or some independent resources to create their own budgets. I guess he didn't make it. We believe that this is difficult and we know that this is difficult, but in fact we have come to the conclusion that we are not actually acting in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which requires the local community to have at least one single source. We do not have such a separate source in this legislation. If someone tries to prove that it is a tax on the income of legal persons, perhaps, but we are confident that it is not a single source, but rather a source that is truly territorially bound to this area, but is still more derogated than independent. Each level of power should, in our opinion, have its own assets, its own financial resources and its own budget. Here this dilemma is still open. The principle of self-financing is one of the fundamental principles of financing both municipalities and provinces, which must also be followed by laws known under the Constitution. However, the essential part of the financial resources of the local community must come from local taxes and other taxes, such as provincial taxes in this case. We do not have such taxes in this legislation, and therefore we cannot count as our own resources, which are in fact both income tax and corporate income tax. The government could also look at the comparison and try to find a sample, say from Germany, and secure this tax, say on motor vehicles, and all the property taxes. The LDS thinks that it is also possible to have its own resources, such as excise duties and environmental taxes, which are not included in this legislation. It is also possible to introduce a tax on motor vehicles based on CO2 to replace the existing tax on motor vehicles instead of the corporate income tax. So these are the options that we will propose in a second reading of this legislation or this tax if the Government does not find them or the Ministry or the office will not find its solutions. Under this law, it will be the main source or one of the important sources of corporate income tax that actually divides between the country and the province. This tax would, according to our calculations or as we read it, represent only 17% of the revenue in terms of the projected funds for the operations of the provinces. We have repeatedly heard the President of the Government say how he believes that the provinces will need to operate and that about 5% of the gross social product will also be provided. Our calculation shows that this is only 4%, and so we are looking for this 1%, and we hope that we will get an answer, where it will take place, how and where the Government intends to ensure that this promise, or that the first Minister, Mr Janša, will be able to implement it. In this regard, we also point out that this tax, i.e. the corporate income tax, is being reduced by tax reform in the coming years. It is now paid at rate 25, later in 2007 23, in 2008 it will be paid at rate 22% and in 2009 21%, and in 2010 it will pay 20%. This will also reduce tax revenues in gross social product and the nominal amount which the State will waive for financing the provinces. So this scenario does not indicate that the situation or financing of the provinces is improving, of course this calculation shows that it will deteriorate. The Government in Article 4 of the Law on the Financing of the Provinces provides for its own source of financing of the province's taxes on the income of legal persons, but those solutions in the article stipulating that the province's revenue for each financial year is 25 % of the tax on the income of legal persons, but not more than 150 % of the population of the province. [[?]] An average of 25% of the share of income from corporate income per capita in the country, and not less than on average 25% of income from corporate income tax per capita in the country, according to our opinion, are controversial, create some kind of balance sheet, create some kind of solace for those who are not looking and will not seek other sources. If we look at all the provincial legislation, we notice that there is a lack of full analysis of the cost of operating the provinces. The draft law lacks analyses to determine the minimum costs and the minimum number of employees to enable the normal functioning of the provinces. This will present a major problem in 2009 when the provinces are supposed to operate, because the province will actually have to decide on the tasks, not on the basis of a clear plan, because the resources would be precisely defined. And what I think the Minister needs to pay attention to ensuring that the stability of these resources starts to work, that he knows how many of these resources will be and that he knows what the tasks are, what will be done and how many people will be needed to do so. And it is our view that this analysis is needed, which should be seen in the discussion below. The State is working, in our opinion, in the Lands Act, in fact, financial compensation, because the tasks performed so far by the State and thus transferred to the regional level, as it provides funding for these tasks from the so-called calculation of appropriate spending. We do not know what will happen, whether this calculation of appropriate consumption will result in a conflict with the values of these institutions or municipalities so far for the operation of these tasks, because they are financed by the State in combination with the local environment and because the calculation of appropriate consumption is made according to the criteria of population, age, territory, social threats and so on, we do not know whether this criterion or whether this calculation of appropriate consumption will lead to difficulties in carrying out these tasks. We also believe that such structured financing does not allow for the promotion of internal development competition and competition for development potential in the European market. The law also does not allow for tax competition between the provinces, because the provinces do not have separate tax resources which could, for example, encourage an increase in relocation from one province to another. The law also does not allow the country's tax policy to encourage, say, green field investments, create new jobs and increase tax inflows to the provinces. The model by which the provinces will benefit from up to 25% of the corporate tax revenue collected in the province from 20% of the income collected in the province, 20% of the excise duty on alcoholic beverages, 5% of the excise duty on energy and tobacco products is a financing model which, in our opinion, does not allow for complete financial or at least major financial independence of the provinces and separation from the country. The proposed system is also, in our opinion, a balancing tool, because by financial or excessive financial regulation it allows financially weaker landscapes to be kept quiet so that they do not engage themselves, but cling to state sutures, which strengthens the dominant position of the country that decides everything in this way. The proposal for the financing of the provinces allows 100% co-financing of investments in the provinces to be made possible by the State, without providing sufficient clear criteria and criteria for the allocation of these funds to municipalities in a transparent manner. The government takes on too much responsibility as each minister will decide on the level of co-financing for his own department. Such a solution does not allow for the real autonomy of the landscapes, investment, according to our assessment, is investment in increasing and maintaining the property of the landscapes in the form of courts, buildings, equipment and equipment and other tangible and non-acquisitionable assets, including investment in pooling and training the development of new technologies, improving the quality of life and other investments that will bring benefits in the future, and we do not believe that the Minister knows these interests, these needs, these desires better than the local environment, that is, the landscapes that are therefore too dependent on the Minister's good will. The same or similar dilemma applies to indebtedness, as the proposal for a law without specific criteria provides that the province, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, may be indebted to a greater extent than it provides for. In our view, the criteria for granting consent should be fully legal or should not be granted to the Minister. This arrangement means regulating the possibility of political clienteleism and preference on the basis of customer affiliation. As a result, in our view, such a structured financing of the provinces can be achieved in the year 2000 [[?]] happens that the state will lose control of public finances because resources will objectively and we believe at this point in time, they will be indebted because they will depend entirely on the sources of funding that the country gives up and the situation may arise when we find ourselves in a breach of the Stability and Growth Pact and will have to act in Slovenia because of the excessive public financial deficit, so that I do not scare or think that we are overreacting. The fact is that these options exist if there are large appetites from some provinces that will initially want to show all their entitlement to establish and some local politicians will, in fact, approach their eminence to work in the provinces. And that will be difficult to contain in these ways, and here are these threats from a broader macroeconomic or fiscal perspective. We in the Liberal Democracy, as I said earlier, are aware that in the current situation in Slovenia, it is difficult to find resources that are truly original in the allocation or taxation and tax legislation that is valid. We note, however, that it is possible to think and propose to think about this and also to look at a study, such as the comings of a lower level of the country, the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, in which, Mr Velimir Bole and Žiga Jere, proposed two sources that could and will be used in our opinion as their own resources. This is the first registration fee that would thus be awarded to the regional level, although someone will say that registration is possible across Slovenia, but, of course, for the seat of such a registered car or owner, it is clear about what environment they are in. The second tax, the second source, could be a property tax, which will and will become a fact, and this should also be a local tax, according to our opinion, because it is linked to the position of this property, to the position of the property in the environment, that is, in the province that we are talking about today. All this and more is likely to be in the debate. I also hope that our comments will provide a good enough basis for the Minister to decide how to amend or supplement this legislation, especially what we have proposed to take on the table the fourth law, the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, which is in fact the basis for the adoption of the whole package of legislation. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy, we propose not to receive this law in a second reading, but we propose to hold this debate today, as it was intended, to suspend the meeting and to continue the meeting at a time when the fourth law will also be the day to be considered and discussed and continued in the first reading, that is to say in autumn. I think this is the most realistic, best and later when this joint legislation with the comments of all municipalities, all local environments and other actors can be addressed, more comprehensively, better. For this reason, I must say that we do not join those who think that this legislation should be adopted today, with a traveller, that it is suitable for further consideration, but we propose an interruption and continuation of the fourth law. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u10	Good afternoon. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues and all those who accompany us through television screens. Even in Nova Slovenije we discussed the provinces a lot and attended several round tables on this topic. We find that opinions, like those of Slovenia all the time, are shared. Whether or not the landscapes are necessary or necessary as well as their tasks, financing, but most about border areas and seats. In the parliamentary group, we have drawn up a position on the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia, which is reflected in eight points, and I will also present these views. First time. We agree that the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia is a very responsible task, which requires a thorough reflection and a broad public debate before the establishment of the country. The adoption of a constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution created the basis for the drafting of laws on the basis of which power functions will be decentralised and the performance of public affairs will be transferred to the provincial level. The proposed laws define the province as the city level of local self-government between the state and the municipalities. They will be shaped as a new administrative, territorial structure. There will be changes and innovations in the legal and economic field, in the field of state administration and public services, and the impact will also be reflected in the field of municipalities or in the situation of municipalities and populations. For these reasons, we advocate a broad public debate, not only about the seat and the area of the provinces, but also about their role, tasks and funding. In New Slovenia we believe that the rules of the game must be known from the beginning. Therefore, in our view, it is not wrong to discuss the proposed three laws at first reading today. However, it is crucial that we also know the content of the law on the transfer of tasks to the provinces before these laws are passed and the law on the establishment of the provinces and their areas. It's a so-called technical law. Another time. New Slovenia supports such legal solutions to the establishment of the provinces, which will ensure the real decentralisation of Slovenia in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity. Before establishing the landscapes, their role must be known and clear. We need to know exactly what the provinces will do. It is necessary to define which tasks and to what extent they will be carried out in the provinces from 1.1.2009 onwards. We advocate a consistent delegation of tasks already carried out in the ministries and oppose the idea that new tasks are being carried out in the provinces, which have not yet been provided with funding resources. As we know in the New Slovenia Group, the response of ministries is not the most determined. To date, the only Ministry of Education and Sport should clearly define the tasks it intends to delegate to the provinces. The scope of these tasks represents a third of the estimated funding for the implementation of all tasks to be carried out at the provincial level. What about other areas? We know from the congregation’s experience that congregations have often been burdened with new and new tasks and the resources for their implementation have not been provided. With amendments to the Law on Community Financing in 2005, it was finally ensured that municipalities were provided with more financial compensation. In the New Slovenia Group, we consistently advocate the principle of subsidiarity, which provides for an appropriate distribution of powers between different levels. The country, the province and the congregation. In this way, transparency should be ensured when making decisions that should be taken at the citizens' level as close as possible. Third time. We are working towards solutions that will provide a strong development component for the provinces. The provinces must become a generator of coherent regional development. The introduction of landscapes is also important in order to ensure coherent regional development and the greater impact of the population on decision-making. In the New Slovenia Group, we are particularly committed to ensuring that the landscape financing system is set up to help reduce the development differences between the provinces. As we have advocated in the municipalities, it is right that, above all, at the request of Nova Slovenije, the development risk index has been included in the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption. This will provide the provinces with means for regular operation without burdening the resources allocated to the development programmes. Last but not least, this is the case with the European Charter, which provides that financially weaker local communities must be protected by financial compensation procedures or other appropriate measures to remedy the effects of the uneven distribution of possible financial resources and the financial burden they bear. Such procedures or measures shall not reduce the freedom of local authorities to decide on their tasks. The formation of landscapes could make it possible to draw more effectively from European funds, as the preparation and implementation of regional projects will be less difficult. Cross-border cooperation could also be strengthened. Fourth time. New Slovenia will support the establishment of landscapes, which will not require additional burden on Slovenian taxpayers. As is clearly the position of the New Slovenia Group, which advocates consistent subsidiarity and knowledge of precisely defined tasks, it is also clear that in the New Slovenia Group we will support the introduction of the provinces if there is no need for additional burdens on public funds. The transfer of tasks to the provinces should also transfer funds and personnel for their implementation. The introduction of the provinces is a serious milestone in the history of the Slovenian state. We therefore expect the applicant to introduce the provinces so that the taxpayers do not feel it in their pockets. Fifth. New Slovenia advocates the financing of the landscapes in accordance with the principles of public financing and the dowry of the law governing public finances and in accordance with the constitutional provision that the State must provide the province with funds in proportion to the type and extent of the tasks transferred. The financing of the landscapes must comply with the principles of transparency, efficiency and efficiency and financial optimisation of the management of public funds. It is not as important which tax resources will be allocated to the provinces as it is to provide a stable source of funding. Additional funds for the implementation of the development or priority tasks of the provinces may only be used as a debt under the condition that public finances remain in good condition. Six. From a financial and organisational point of view, the provinces must remove and remove administrative obstacles for citizens. In the New Slovenia Group, we want to ensure more appropriate conditions for the development and realization of all the capacities of the population in all areas of life by removing bureaucratic obstacles. This is particularly true for the provinces, which will represent an intermediate level between the country and the municipality. Effective public administration reduces administrative procedures and works in the interests of citizens. In the New Slovenia Group, we note that the creation of provincial administrations is not an opportunity for new jobs, but in administrations it is necessary to re-employ public officials who are already carrying out tasks. Not only must the services we need collected in one place be accessible. In the New Slovenia Group, we strongly oppose the reduction of the availability of services for the population. We cannot agree that the inhabitants of the more remote places would find it more difficult to access services, such as obtaining passports, other documents, certificates and so on, due to the introduction of the provinces. We expect a clear solution to the jurisdiction and tasks of the provinces vis-à-vis existing administrative units to be identified before the adoption of the legislation. We also hope in the New Slovenia Group that the establishment of the provinces will not undermine the task of municipalities. In the New Slovenia Group, we have strongly supported all the reductions and in some cases the abolition of administrative duties. This means removing car stickers, reducing the prices of notary services and so on. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we will by no means allow the introduction of the provinces indirectly, through taxes, or directly, through administrative and other charges, to cause an increase in the financial burden on the inhabitants. Next, point seven. New Slovenia will take into account the consent of the municipalities or the referendum will of the citizens when establishing the provinces. In the New Slovenia Group, we place the position of an individual in society as a priority. In accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, we take into account that local authorities are one of the main foundations of any democratic regime. We are convinced that this right can be exercised most directly at local level. The European Charter on Local Self-Government provides, inter alia, that the borders of local authorities do not change without prior consultation with the local communities to which they relate, preferably through a referendum where this is permitted by law. That is why we are pleased in our parliamentary group and welcome the Government's decision to publish the proposal for a landscape area by calling for a public debate in the media and to send it to the municipal councils. In the Member State of New Slovenia we will support such a proposal for a law that will take into account the opinion of the municipalities or the referendum will of the citizens. Eight. New Slovenia advocates as few provinces as possible or as many as possible, which, according to the criteria for establishing the provinces, will ensure the optimal functioning of the provinces. And what's to add? What is political reality is now more or less almost known. The New Slovenia Group supports the introduction of the provinces, taking into account the eight points listed above. The position of the New Slovenia Group is similar to that of individual proposals for laws. We will support their adoption if the burden of taxpayers on the introduction of the provinces does not increase and if the tasks to be carried out by the provinces are clearly defined. The Provinces Act is a fundamental law governing the status of the province, the principles of provincial self-government, the labour area and the organisation of provincial authorities and administration. The work area is defined by a loose definition of the tasks to be performed by the provinces. It is a matter of regulating local matters of wider importance, which are common areas of several municipalities. The specific law will set out the tasks of regional importance and delegated tasks to be carried out by the provincial administration. In the New Slovenia Group, we particularly note that accessibility to services for the population must not be reduced, to which we will pay particular attention below. The authorities of the province envisaged by the bill are the provincial council and the president of the province. The Provincial Council shall be composed of 33 to 55 members. We also welcome the decision that the position of the president of the province is not compatible with the function of a Member or other State function, as well as with the function of mayor or mayor. The draft law also defines cooperation with municipalities, other provinces and state authorities. The transitional provisions set out the deadlines for the delegation of administrative tasks. The government will lay down by regulation how to provide for staffing, spatial and other conditions for the entry into operation of the provinces. When transferring tasks and transferring public servants from the authorities of the State Administration and municipalities in the New Slovenia Group, we insist on the parallel transfer of tasks, staff and financial resources for their execution. The basic starting point for the proposed Land Financing Act by the New Slovenia Group is not to increase the taxpayer's tax burden, but to transfer the corresponding share of public funds through the transfer of tasks. In addition, in the New Slovenia Group, we want this law to contribute to reducing the developmental differences between the individual provinces. We believe that the inclusion of the Development Hazard Index in the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the province will help to do so. The index expressing the ratio between the province's development threat index and the weighted arithmetic mean of the country's development hazard index is weighted by 20% points. This is not a new burden on public finances, but a proper distribution of financial resources. These are set for each province as a percentage of the revenue collected, of the income of legal persons, of income and of excise duties, and of other resources. It is important for our parliamentary group, which is working towards more balanced regional development, that these percentages are limited to the population by the average of the country, not more than 50% and not less than 25%. The proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces also sets out the scope of the debt. The scope shall be determined by decree itself, taking into account the Law on Public Finance and the law on the implementation of the budget. The consent of the Ministry of Finance shall be required in cases where the province is indebted to the extent permitted. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that such a solution is appropriate, as additional indebtedness of the provinces could only be possible if public finances remain in good condition. We are also convinced that long-term debt under the state budget is the cheapest solution for the provinces. The proposal for a law on the financing of landscapes by specific provisions governs the co-financing of the tasks, programmes and investments of the provinces so that, irrespective of other provisions, the State budget landscapes can be provided with funds to co-finance tasks at the level of the appropriations from the European Union. It also provides for the provision of investment financing in the State budget, for the implementation of coherent regional development measures on the basis of a development programme plan, direct budgetary users and in line with the criteria set by ministers up to 100% of the eligible investment costs, of course taking into account the development risk index. The last of the provincial laws is the Law on Elections in the Provinces. The members and members of the provincial councils shall be elected by the electorate and the electorate freely and in secret on the basis of direct, equal and general electoral rights. The mandate of the authorities of the province shall be 5 years. The law also regulates the way in which members of the Italian and Hungarian minorities are elected in the provinces where they live. In each province, one representative of each national community will be elected after the majority electoral system. A proportional electoral system shall apply to elections in the provincial councils. The law stipulates that electoral units shall be formed for elections to the provincial council. These are designed to make one member of the world loved to about the same number of people. The constituency, however, covers the territory of one or more municipalities or the work of municipalities. The size and number of constituencies will be determined by the provincial council for the first elections. The New Slovenia Group points out that we will have to be very careful when adopting this law to create the number and area of individual constituencies. In New Slovenia, we will strive to ensure that all parts of each province are evenly represented so as not to dominate the regional centres at the expense of the rest of the provinces. In the draft law, the proposer proposed a 4% electoral threshold, which would result in the effective functioning of the provincial councils. The distribution of mandates itself is similar to that of the municipal council elections. In Novi Slovenija we support the use of Droop's coefficient in the calculation of direct mandates in the electoral unit. This will allow for the distribution of more mandates already at the level of the electoral unit. The law allows voters among candidates who have been proposed by political parties or by voters themselves to choose the one who trusts him and gives him a preferred vote by signature. The law requires candidates to take equal representation of both sexes into account when creating lists. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the gradual application of the percentage of gender representation, just as it is regulated in the election of members of the National Assembly. Let me conclude, in the New Slovenia Group we estimate that the content of all three laws is acceptable for further consideration. Members of New Slovenia will continue to represent the views presented in the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u12	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Members, Members of Parliament, including all those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who accompany us through the media with a nice greeting! In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is a great success for the Government to decide and put into practice legislation for the establishment of regions. We believe that this move was necessary and that it will also be useful for Slovenia. In this National Assembly, we have shown our intention to regulate the provinces as a second level of local self-government when we appointed the last government, when we also appointed the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. This direction has been even more clearly supported by amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which have so far provided us with an inadequate legal basis for the establishment of regions or landscapes with a better, more appropriate regime that has enabled the drafters to prepare legislation for the establishment of provinces in Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia has already decided to self-government by adopting a new constitution. The fact is that the concepts of local self-government were different at the time of the formation of the Slovenian Constitution, and the experience of the municipal system in the previous country was also important. Such a situation has also led to the fact that the regulation of the wider self-government communities in the Constitution was inadequate or that did not allow for the actual establishment of the provinces as well as the wider self-government local communities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been stressing the importance of local communities and local self-government as an extremely important aspect of a democratic state all the time. For the local community allows people in their territory to regulate those areas of social life that directly relate to the lives of the local population. For the better life of the inhabitants, it is also important to regulate landscapes as well as other levels of local self-government in order to regulate areas beyond the capacity of municipalities. That is why we also supported the amendments to the Constitution, which regulated the status of the provinces and ensured that all areas in Slovenia will be included in the provinces, which, in accordance with the previous existing regime based on voluntary assembly of municipalities, was practically impossible. The establishment of the provinces in Slovenia is necessary. I think there is no longer any doubt about this, even in today's debate over so-called provincial laws. We therefore expect, in particular, to think about which solutions in the proposed laws are questionable, perhaps not the best and how they should be regulated. In fact, we all talk a lot about coherent regional development, and movements in this direction are urgent, but are also significantly too small or too slow. Recent legislative changes, to mention only the role of regional centres under the new scholarship law, have provided some important guidance for faster and more equitable development of all parts of Slovenia. More concrete measures should be launched to ensure equitable regional development. The establishment of regions is undoubtedly an important step in this direction. Just as the establishment of municipalities has brought important progress in all parts of Slovenia, the establishment of landscapes will undoubtedly ensure a certain degree of decentralisation and even development of our country. There may still be some skepticism about the sense of establishing another level of local self-government. I think that if we asked people about the effects of the establishment of local self-government in the form of municipalities, they have a very positive opinion about them. The financing of all parts of Slovenia through municipal budgets has enabled the establishment of emergency infrastructure for all places, including those that have been severely neglected in the larger municipalities in the previous country. But now it is needed, particularly for development reasons, slightly wider, i.e. a regional or provincial approach, because some municipalities are too small to effectively promote faster development in their own area. That's just the way life is. The Lands Act, the first law under consideration, is a statutory provincial law governing the legal status of the province, the labour areas of the province's tasks, the authorities of the province, the participation of the inhabitants in the decision-making, the tasks and organisation of the provincial administration, the property and the principles of the financing of the province, the statute of the province, the cooperation of the provinces with the municipalities, the State authorities and the mutual cooperation of the provinces. The draft law therefore lays down the foundations, a framework for the actual establishment of the provinces and their authorities. In general, in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we assess the proposed Law on Provinces as an appropriate and well-prepared law. Finally, it should be pointed out that the proposed law was produced through many different consultations and that many experts and other interested partners participated in the preparation. Legislation was preparing to find a broad consensus, and we are all aware of that. The final establishment of provincial legislation will require 2/3 of the majority in this National Assembly. The electoral system is also a very important part of any legislation or country, municipality or province. The electoral system law must ensure fair, fair and transparent elections. The electoral system must enable all regions or inhabitants of the province to be represented in the provincial council. However, it may depend on the electoral system and the manner in which the individual organs are elected, depending on how many options an individual party has or whether a particular individual is elected to one of the bodies. Last but not least, no electoral system, no way to vote is ideal, everyone has its drawbacks and advantages. With regard to the proposed law on elections to the provinces, we can say that the elections of the members of the provincial council are properly regulated. A proportional system is proposed, except for the elections of representatives of the Hungarian and Italian national communities elected in the majority elections. We believe that such a solution is appropriate. The bill also contains a provision on the electoral threshold for elections to the provincial councils. This threshold is set at 4%, corresponding to the comparative arrangement in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which also prescribes a 4% threshold for entry into the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this is an appropriate solution. For smaller customers, of course, such a solution may also be problematic, but something else should be highlighted. In cases where the electoral system is not limited to the electoral threshold, it would be easier for different so-called independent lists and independent candidates with a low percentage of votes to enter the provincial councils. This, however, does not seem to us well, especially because we believe that a large number of different sheets and then the appropriate composition of the provincial councils would not contribute to transparency, to transparency and not to the effective work of the provincial council. We therefore believe that the proposed electoral threshold is appropriate. The law also provides for a preferential vote, which, of course, gives the individual candidate the opportunity to be elected to the provincial council despite the less favourable place on the list. The determination of the condition for taking into account preferential votes is duly regulated. The proposed law on elections in the provinces also lays down all other necessary procedures and electoral tasks and the electoral bodies necessary for the normal conduct of the elections. That is why we also consider this law appropriate for further discussion. The third law in the package is the Law on the Financing of the Provinces. The province cannot operate without adequate financial resources. The search for autonomous funding sources for the provinces was also one of the most difficult tasks for law-makers. However, the funding system and its arrangements can have a decisive impact on the fair distribution of funds between all regions or on the even distribution of funds across Slovenia. In this regard, it is known that in the Slovenian People's Party we are persistent advocates of a fair distribution of funds in a way that ensures the equitable development of the whole country. The autonomy of the province or its status as a self-governing local community can only be achieved on condition that the province is also financially independent of its own revenue. The provisions with such a direction are also enshrined in the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In addition to the eligibility of local communities to adequate own financial resources and support for weaker communities in the form of financial imbalances, the European Charter stresses in particular that subsidies should not be strictly earmarked for local authorities. The proposed law on the financing of the provinces follows both the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and other European instruments. According to the proposal, the revenue from the part of the corporate tax, the share of income, excise duty and other resources, such as income from property, is income. However, it is also appropriate to compensate for the uneven influx of these revenues. This is important in terms of equitable development. If all the provinces were to be financed without compensation, those in more developed areas would be further developed and the rest would be increasingly lagging behind. That would be contrary to our goals. We also agree with the proposed criteria on the basis of which appropriate consumption will be calculated. At the end of this opinion, let me also touch on the assessments of the financial implications that the state budget will have with the adoption of provincial laws. According to the proposaler, the laws of financial implications beyond the planning would not have any effect, in general, the establishment of the provinces would be based on transfers of both employees and financial resources between the State, the provinces and the municipalities. We believe that this objective can be achieved, but good coordination and, above all, good operational implementation of the establishment of the provinces will be required. Any irregularities in the planning of the establishment of the provinces and in the actual reallocation of staff and financial resources will certainly have a significantly higher financial impact than expected. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the proposed laws are suitable for further consideration. We will also listen to all of today's opinions and comments. Our objective is clear as soon as possible to adopt all the necessary provincial legislation, so we need to work towards consensus, as a key law in the area of provincial law will also require a two-thirds majority. In our view, however, it would be preposterous at this time to wait for the fourth law to determine the areas of the provinces. This, too, will certainly be necessary for us to accept. However, we hope that today's debate will be substantive in particular and that it will not go in the direction of a debate on who wants another additional province and that the seat must be in that or that place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. A respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. A spirited Croatian columnist and writer who writes for Dnevnik Boris Dežulović wrote about the Slovenian distribution proposal to 14 provinces weeks ago with a lot of cynicism and perhaps even hospitality. In doing so, he calculated that at the rate we have in the recent establishment of new municipalities in Slovenia in 2016 he would have had 2 million municipalities. He says: "Each Slovenian will have his own municipality, each Slovenian will be able to receive his own mayor and receive money from the municipal budget and he will no longer have to work. The cheap labour it will need, drivers, secretaries and probably municipal councillors will import from other Balkan countries." He even suggested that we check that the minister named Ivan may not have been framed from Croatia, where there are also 22 counties and 420 municipalities, and, of course, a lot of bad experience with expanded bureaucracy, officials who are the largest state-owned company and so on. Dežulović spoke about the congregations. Where diligence in establishing the landscapes can lead us, he did not say. A joke on the side. It's too serious. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we stress that the establishment of the provinces is necessary in terms of the balanced development of Slovenia. The provincial legislation should therefore be adopted, but not entirely in the form proposed by the Government. The complicated solutions are too strong a result of political compromise and do not sufficiently follow the expert analyses on the regionalisation of Slovenia. The proposal for a law on landscapes still does not address the appropriate issue of a single or two-track administrative system. In view of the differences in views between Minister Žagar and Virant, it was first proposed that this should be introduced gradually and, in the final proposal, that unity remained only an option that would be realized only after the analysis of the two-year operation of the provinces and might not be fully introduced. This means that the provinces will establish their bureaucratic structures in the initial phase, so we can be sure that the number of new bureaucrats will increase. The provinces will not be given all the powers they should and will not be joined by the state administration as a whole. So what are they gonna do? Half-breed, not a dick or a mouse. In addition to the above-mentioned proposal, they would also propose to consider the operation of inspection services within the framework of the provinces. Only this would solve the problem of poor coordination of non-cooperation and inefficiency of inspection controls. We still expect a comprehensive project to cover both the human resources and the financial aspects of the introduction of the provinces. In order to ensure the conditions for the commencement of the work of the provinces, an analysis of the staff of the provincial administrative authorities should be carried out and an analysis of the costs of the tasks to be transferred to or transferred to the original jurisdiction of the provinces. In addition, of course, we expect the Government to provide both spatial and other material conditions for the launching of the landscapes. Indeed, in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Association, we find that the proposals for laws from the package of the establishment of the provinces are prepared only within their legal framework. However, the additional material also covers the substantive, detailed, original and delegated tasks. The Lands Act provides for only areas in which the transition or designation of original tasks and delegation of tasks will take place. On the basis of the latter, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the proposed transfer of tasks from State jurisdiction is quite appropriate to the original jurisdiction of the provinces under regional legislation or individual ministries. However, the Government is reminded that the issue of transfer tasks is important, that this is not only dependent on the degree of decentralisation, but also on the effectiveness and flexibility of development policies in the provinces. The implementation of development policy can be significantly more effective and effective if the institution also has the appropriate administrative and administrative levers at its disposal. We agree that the tasks and competences of municipalities and municipalities should be transferred to the provinces as little as possible, as this is a decentralisation and not a new centralisation. The latter does not mean that the transfer of some local tasks to the wider extent cannot be achieved, which could be more effective. In doing so, we are certainly referring to a shelter for animals, the issue of landfills, but we also suggest that we transfer to the provinces the appointment of, for example, an advocate of patients' rights, which has proved to be good in the case of Maribor. In particular, the power, complexity and conflict to be expected when transferring ownership of certain public institutions that carry out local tasks of wider importance for the multi-community area is expected. The latter avoids solutions to the proposed laws, although it is envisaged in specific areas that the tasks performed by these institutions will be transferred to the original jurisdiction of the provinces. Not to mention the problems that will arise from determining, for example, the prices of public services in such institutions. Although the Government will submit to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on the establishment of provinces only after the end of the public debate on the Proposal for Areas in Slovenia, with names and seats, the issue of the number of provinces, as a consequence also the issue of their size, is important now, as concrete solutions to the laws that we have on the table today depend on this. The provinces must follow developmental and demographic and other common nouns. They must represent a rounded and meaningful social territorial unit. Properly defined and established landscapes are a prerequisite for any serious and long-term polycentric development of Slovenia. Let me immediately mention that many administrative areas are organised in our own way, which further strengthens centralisation, in this case to the detriment of a more rational exercise. As already stated, in Slovenia we have 12 statistical regions, 58 administrative units, 8 electoral units, 12 geodetic district administrations, 8 spatial planning positions, 12 district employment services, 4 areas of jurisdiction of the Higher Courts, 11 areas of jurisdiction of the District Courts, 4 areas of jurisdiction of the Labour Courts, 4 areas of jurisdiction of the Administrative Courts, 11 police administrations, 13 administrations of defence, 14 offices of the Tax Administration, etc. All this and more can be found on just a few more than 20,000 square miles. In the professional public, there are proposals to divide into 3, 8 or 12 provinces. In doing so, we are aware that the decision on the number of provinces will be political and not just professional. In view of the fact that the applicant, this is the Government, has put forward a proposal for the establishment of 14 provinces in public debate, we believe that it will be and that this proposal will be extremely bad. We are very disappointed with him, and that this proposal will encourage and it is logical that he has already stimulated the desire for further treatment and developmental inadequate membership of the country, which has already begun with the rules on the establishment of municipalities. The existing proposal is already triggering further incentives for new provinces, whether we like to hear it or not. So in Upper Gornji, North and South Ljubljan region, White Krajini etc., etc. All of this shows that we should strive for solutions that follow expert evaluations on the sense of establishing fewer provinces. This time, the profession was very uniform, for it mentioned a maximum of 6 and mentioned between 6 and a maximum of 8 provinces. And allow me to list a number of experts who have been involved and also advocated this, wrote articles about it and also urged us to take them into account. There were Dr. Dušan Plut, Dr. Marjan Ravbar, Dr. Stane Vlaj, Dr. Janez Šmidovnik, Dr. Igor Vrišer, Miran Gajšek and could also be listed. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that these initiatives for the new provinces that I have mentioned earlier will be very difficult to oppose because, given the current proposal for the creation of the other 14 provinces, they are, in fact, justified in some way. In view of the complications that have already arisen, in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Association, we are really asking whether it would not be better to respect and prescribe certain criteria when establishing the provinces. To respect, for example, territorial, historical, economic, sociological and other criteria. And that without their definition a responsible decision for the number of provinces is not possible. From here on out, everything is just politics, compromise and measuring power. Let us simply point out that, in our view, the excessive differences between the provinces, for example, by the number of inhabitants, are by no means appropriate. The smallest province is said to have fewer than 50,000 inhabitants, a maximum of nearly 500,000. And six provinces have fewer than 100,000 inhabitants. It is true that Slovenia is a small and geographically and demographically very fragmented country, and it may therefore make sense for us to move away from some points in Europe with a minimum of 150,000 inhabitants. But that doesn't mean it's wise to establish provinces with less than 50,000 inhabitants. Finally, we obtained a number that could reach 13,000, depending on 150,000, by compressing a quarter of the Slovenian population into one province, Central Slovenia, and thus gaining the opportunity for an extremely large number of other, small provinces. Due to infrastructure development, it is simply not appropriate for every small Slovenian city to become the centre of the province, with all its powers and responsibilities. In the medium term, it is appropriate to place in each province the following key factors, such as colleges, state defences, district prosecutors and courts, at least one internationally competitive industrial and at least one larger enterprise area of the small economy. This allows for optimal use of resources in the province, rational use of premises, more efficient transport organisation, more developmental ambitions, sonar development projects and the like. Only such regions will be able to achieve the critical amount of regional resources represented by economic, human, infrastructure and other capacities for a successful global competition with European and global regions. Finally, it must be stressed that the small regions will certainly not compete in cooperation with other regions with which, for example, Primorska divided with a much larger province in neighbouring Italy, Furlanija-Julija Krajina, or Styria, which is not in Slovenia at all. We find it difficult to believe that a province with 50,000 inhabitants is capable of global response and competitiveness. The establishment of such landscapes is seriously questioned by the real decentralisation and polycentric development of Slovenia. This is, after all, very comparable to what we are doing and are doing in the setting up of congregations. The reform of local self-government after independence is supposed to be aimed at more coherent development and should mean decentralisation, and in fact, the large and irrational fragmentation of municipalities meant, in some ways, the strengthening of national centralisation. More and more congregations are determined, and it is also impossible to exercise certain powers given to them. This experience should alert us to potential errors and errors in establishing the provinces, but apparently the Government has not learned anything from this. Everyone knows how important it is to make this process as rational as possible, but when it comes to the question of the local congregation and the city, it is the petty logic that put local prestige first. The profession is quite uniform in terms of the establishment of the landscapes, this time we will not be able to trigger any observations. There is a strong opinion that Slovenia needs up to 6 to maybe 8 provinces. The provinces will fulfil their role if their funding system is designed to encourage them to compete and to hold them responsible for their own development. Unfortunately, the funding system, as set out in the law that we have before us, is not built in. Once again, there is a known experience with government grants provided, if I say so in pronunciations, passivity and focus on consumption. According to Minister Žagar, other than central Slovenia, no one will survive without compensation. The corporate income tax, however, is insufficiently stimulating for good and ambitious persons, as it is, of course, cut upwards. However, the funding formula is the same as in the municipalities to encourage fragmentation. Therefore, the requirements for the creation of new landscapes are inevitable and comprehensible. Under such conditions, it is necessary to answer clearly why, for example, a province in Posavje could be established, not a similar region in the Upper Sava Valley. Criterion, as I said before, is not. So the arguments can be exclusively political and, of course, lobbying in the National Assembly. Why not reconsider an interesting proposal, a significantly smaller number of large, strong landscapes, and within them a larger number, for example, a sub-region, a network of about 30 lower-level centres, which are now a fact, and legal solutions would also allow them to influence strategically important development decisions and interventions within a larger province and, of course, lay the foundations for a more coherent regional development of all areas. We therefore call on all political parties, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Dr. Ivan Žagar and the President, Janez Janša, to consider, or to find solutions in the framework of provincial legislation, to have a smaller number of provinces in Slovenia. We think it is essential, especially because the Government in this area, in particular the financial ones, has not prepared appropriate analyses, mainly due to the costs of financial consequences, rationality, the extreme increase in the number of officials, which will be collected in the new provinces by about 600, but in Slovenia there will be a better solution than 14 provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[He's not here.]] Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! Undoubtedly, the minister said in his introduction that the legislation and, above all, the resurgence of the provinces within the Republic of Slovenia is a very difficult work. Clearly because we're no match for him. Slovenian policy is not part of the creation of quality landscapes. It is true that we will establish some of the provinces, but the provinces will be solely for having the status of the provinces, so that they will not satisfy what the provinces are supposed to be in content. I mean, we're not ready to listen, we're not ready to listen to each other, but everyone's trying to look at each other. From this title I must admit that Mr Minister was also within the parliamentary procedure at the premises of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, but this was a visit due to a visit. Thus, the position of the Slovenian National Party has not been prepared to change, as the position of the Minister has not been prepared to change. In short, we have not spoken or were not prepared to accept the content offered by each other to achieve that higher-quality goal, especially the better landscape. But the fact is that the provinces, as they are today designed under the three laws that are currently under consideration, will not bring our country anything completely new. For the user of the province, i.e. the citizen and the citizen should be located in any part of Slovenia, it will not be through the province, except that he can say, but I am at home, I don't know, in the Lower Podravska Region, the contents of nothing new. Even more, I hope to say that the sole consequence of such landscapes will be that the media or politicians via the media can be beaten mainly during the electoral campaign and said, "We have established the provinces!" But the next sentence, which regions we've set up, or they're carrying the contents behind them, we won't say another word. And the result, which will and no one can deny, will be created, or you, who will support this idea of landscapes, will create only one new administrative unit with some number of officials and the necessary additional paperwork that citizens will be able to carry on this second piece of equipment this time when they do certain things. I know the speakers will say after me, we'll cut red tape through the provinces, but of course that's not true. If we establish new institutions, institutions between the level of local communities and countries, this institution will also require new paperwork. And all the documents are intended exclusively or generally, because of two things, for the first time to pay taxes or bicycles as you wish to name them and for the second time to give someone a job. But, as I have already said, for the introduction, I personally and in the Slovenian National Party's Group do not believe that the landscapes, as they were designed before us today in three laws, could bring some new content, content that citizens and citizens in depth could positively accept. However, I know and I believe that the error was made before the time when the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, amended three articles of the Constitution. So 121st, 140th and 143rd paragraphs of the Constitution. According to our assessment, Slovenian politics should be, that is, all together - the government, the National Assembly, so much blue and learn from past mistakes. When he came to life at the first level of local self - government, that is, when the congregations lived within our country, there were some ten. When the first elections were held in the city and the municipal councils, it was written in 1994, we had several ten municipalities in Slovenia. Today, ten and a few years later, we see that this number has increased to over 200 congregations. So in Slovenia with a small square, unfortunately, we already have over 200 municipalities. Every year we have referendums at different ends of Slovenia, where someone, perhaps because of political interest, political party or because of any other interest, no longer meets the boundaries of each municipality. And of course then we repeat, at least after my assessment of the calvary with the referendum, with the confirmations of the referendum results, in the National Assembly we have round tables, harassing people with the renaming of municipalities, distribution balance sheets and similar things. In short, my point is that it is not enough to establish a congregation for the congregation. We all know that each one of us knows that today there are new aspirations for the establishment or disunity of existing congregations and thus for the formation of new congregations. The fact is that Slovenia is, unfortunately, such a small country that 200 municipalities are more than too many. As a result, we have amended, amended and supplemented the Law on the Financing of Communities or the Law on the Financing of Local Communities more than 20 times. More than 20 times. What does that mean? This means that individual local communities can no longer follow new instructions coming from or from the previous government, but definitely from the guidelines that have been endorsed here in the National Assembly. In short, I want to say that over the past ten and several years, we have been making or making a lot of mistakes in the field of congregations, and today we have a correctional exam. A correctional exam so we don't make the same mistakes in the area of landscapes. According to my assessment, the good part of this correctional exam has already been missed. That is why I spoke earlier about the three articles of the Constitution, 121st, 140th and 143rd. So when we did that day, I think that this was last March, adopted or adopted the amendment of the Constitution, the Slovenian National Party's Group demanded, asked you or begged you, whatever you want us to write down in the Constitution the number of landscapes - that is, that in the Constitution, as the highest legal act, as that legal act that is most protected within our country, which we cannot just change, whatever political party may seem. We all know that the constitutional procedure is completely different from the legislative procedure. And we all know that the guarantee of long-term legal matter is exclusively its specification in the constitution. All we wanted in the Slovenian National Party Group is to write in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, quote or approximate text: "We have 8 provinces in the Republic of Slovenia". Only to write down a number so that, at the end of each election, there will be, at the end of each election, national elections, provincial elections or local elections, the difficulties of a political option that is currently under way to re-create 5, 6 more provinces, and that the story of the municipalities will begin to repeat itself. So, as we had at the beginning, 10 and several congregations, today we have landed in 200 congregations, I am sure that if the legislation adopted, as the minister offers it to us today, we will come from the current or proposed 14 provinces within the next ten years to 30 provinces. What have we accomplished with this? Nothing at all. Why do I hope to say that? For the first time, because all the three laws before us today, namely the Law on the Financing of the Lands, are encouraging the emergence of new provinces. Funding, funding sources encourage further fragmentation of the provinces currently envisaged. If we look at the Regional Elections Act, we see that, through a proportional way, according to the existing number of saints, the provincial saints per region, of course more favourable for each selfish political interest, we can reduce the number of landscapes, because the fact is that the number of saints per province cannot be smaller than today, regardless of whether it will be 20 provinces or only 14 because we see that this is under the paradox already under the existing arrangement, that individual provinces will have provincial councils with fewer saints than they have, for example, which city hall belongs to this province. This means that a smaller number of people will control an inappropriately large area, and there will also be an area of Maribor City Hall, where there will be more saints. But of course, you've been warned of this no matter how many times. But these are the elements that encourage individual people, especially those close to politics, that they will very soon join the process of dividing one of these fourteen landscapes or creating new landscapes. From this title, I believe, we cannot expect the provinces to live at all in their time, because, once again, the system, as before us, has been written with tasks, obligations for 14, on the other hand, the system encourages the emergence of new six, seven, I said before 30th provinces. But all of this, according to our assessment, comes solely because the legislator, so the National Assembly did the day we did or when you, to be precise, also changed the Constitution in the provincial articles, did not write down and thereby gave the State a guarantee that we would have only so many and so many provinces. I'm speaking out of hand today because you've heard this same story so many times. This is the same story, it was presented on the Constitutional Commission, because this same story was presented at the examination of the constitutional law, because this same story was presented at no more press conferences, press releases, presentations, talks with ministers. And that is why I say that there is a mistake in this country, in this House, that no one wants to take anything out of communication. That it's usually spoken only to talk, but that we're not ready to listen. And even today I will not be as long as some speakers were before me, because the fact is only one, in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, with such legislation as you are offering us today, you are not doing us a service. Indeed, you are not doing any harm, but services with such legislation will not have the Republic of Slovenia, especially if we look and I will show you, and I know you know only two statistics. But I think my colleague told me that Slovenia was cca. 35 areas are already divided, but at the very least the administrative unit in the police, the military, that we have already divided our country of Slovenia, I don't know, 8, 10, 40, 58 parts as many administrative units as there are. In order for at least once with a little more wisdom to try to achieve and to bring Slovenia closer to the same criteria in all areas so that there are some rounded geographical units that will be able to speak for the first time both in the field of police and in the field of justice and in the area of cooperation with the European Union. No! No! But the judges divide Slovenia by their own, each ministry divides Slovenia by their own; local communities, I said, we have over 200 and similar things. But no matter what, I will conclude with the following statistics, for example, I will take the Central Slovenian region, the Ljubljana region, which is supposed to have a circus of half a million inhabitants. According to data I have 498,000 inhabitants. This region will border with the Notranj region, which will have 51,000 inhabitants. What I'm saying is that if we put these numbers in the key to the calculation of financial resources or for the taxes paid or to justify the need for individual investments, we see that the poor will only become even more poor and richer landscapes. On the other hand, if we look at the incomes of individuals from certain parts of Slovenia and include them in a particular province under the symbol of GDP, we see that gross social product per capita in Ljubljana, I apologize, in the Central Slovenian region of 18.786 and in the future Pomeranian province is half of this. In short, even today when there are no provinces, when we barely place them, when we place them, when we place them, I apologize, their foundations, we make substantial differences. That's why once again and for the finale. The mistake was made. We can still fix it, but only if the National Assembly is ready to re-apply as a founder and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has written down the number of provinces. Because the Constitution, we all know, does not change on the basis of the current Slovenian policy or the current group within the policy, and this would guarantee that for at least a few years the system, content and work survives so that individual users of the province can know - yes, today there are such rules of the game, even tomorrow will. In the present case, we do not have this in the Constitution when it is legal matter and when we know that the procedure for amending the law, irrespective of the quorum majority required by this law, is much simpler, easier and in practice we all know, subject to the current daily policy, it is a very poor guarantee. We will not support such an idea in the National Party. However, in the future, my fellow Members are likely to round up at specific points, which are of course also controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Franz Gnyardsich, he's not here. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The laws on the provinces that we are going to discuss in detail today have been weighed through all the points of view and have heard too many concerns, and they have a long history. This issue has been addressed by all governments so far, unfortunately unsuccessful. In 1994, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Local Self-Government and established new municipalities, making it the first stage of local self-government. Thus, the powers of the State represented in the field by the administrative units and local authorities exercised by the municipalities were essentially separated. In the Constitution, however, we had written down that Slovenia could also have provinces. Since 1995, however, no government has gathered enough political power to undertake the so-called second stages of local self-government, i.e. the division of Slovenia into provinces. All attempts to establish the provinces so far have failed because of political will or rather said trouble. The current coalition has been tasked with carrying out a regional level of local self-government. Last year, the National Assembly also adopted an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We have changed 121st, 140th, 143rd articles concerning the provinces and have clearly written in them that Slovenia has the provinces. The amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been confirmed by 77 members of this House. However, only the Slovenian National Party and some individuals were against them. This step means a binding fact that we must establish provinces in Slovenia, not least because of more efficient EU funding. At the same time, so much support has given hope that this time we will bring the process to the end for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. If we focus only on the events we have witnessed in this mandate, that is, the events of the last two years, we can see that much has already been said on this subject, both positive and negative. The conclusion of all of this is the laws that are before us today and that we will discuss today. These laws were prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy and were then discussed within the coalition and discussed with opposition parties and, last but not least, there was much debate in the media. The debate has shown that the main dilemmas surrounding the so-called uniformity or duality of the election of the president of the province, the delegation of tasks, the financing of the province, the incompatibility of functions, the division of mandates within the provinces and the equal representation of the sexes. All the three laws that we are considering today represent, together with the so-called Landscape Establishment Act, a fundamental framework of provincial laws followed by others who will coordinate other laws with the landscape. The draft law on the provinces regulates the legal system components of the province in accordance with the constitutional principles of local self-government and the principles incorporated in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The main content of the proposed province law is the functional component of the provincial self-government, which refers to the tasks of the province and the organisational component of the province's self-government, which defines the authorities of the province and the way in which decisions are taken in the province. The content of the law could also be described more simply by the fact that this law constitutes a basic framework for the functioning and organisation of the provinces. It also contains a procedure for transferring tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces and ensuring conditions for the commencement of the work of the provinces. The provincial authorities are precisely identified, namely the provincial council, the president of the province and the council of municipalities and the provincial administration. The law stipulates that, within the framework of its competences, the province will carry out, in the interest of its population, matters of general interest which facilitate the development of the entire province, in a proposal for a law defined as local matters of wider importance and matters of regional importance. Local matters of wider importance are the tasks for which the province is generally responsible, already under the Constitution. According to the content, local matters are of wider importance, particularly in the areas of providing public services of regional importance and the tasks set out in the law as tasks under the jurisdiction of local self-government communities, i.e. municipalities or provinces, are of wider importance by their nature, since they are common areas of several municipalities and exceed their financial capacity. The tasks of regional importance are in the areas of regional policy on environment and space, transport, economy, education and sport, culture, health and social. The law also ensures a balanced transfer of tasks from country to country. As from 1 January 2009, administrative tasks under national jurisdiction will be transferred to the provinces. In the second phase, the ministries responsible for individual areas of administrative tasks should monitor their work for two years after the establishment of the provinces and, based on an analysis, propose solutions within three years at the latest with regard to the transfer of the performance of tasks from the administrative units to the provinces. The bill provides the province with legal status, legal entities of public law and, in principle, property and financial autonomy. This means that the provinces have assets and their own funding resources, which they manage independently on the basis of the provincial budget. The second law we are discussing today is the Land Financing Act. This law has raised the greatest concerns during the coordination period and has received special attention. The first drafts were amended several times after this and the final funding formula was intended to be the complete autonomy of the provinces, which is the meaning of this [[formula]] It is. The financing of the landscapes is divided into three main sources: firstly, development funding, which includes 25% of the corporate income tax paid by debtors established in the area of the province in the past year. Secondly, adequate spending financing covers 20% of income, 20% of excise duty on alcohol and alcohol products, 5% of excise duty on energy and electricity and 5% of excise duty on tobacco products. Thirdly, resources that are revenue from public services, property, state budget and European resources, as well as part of concession fees, water reimbursement and reimbursement for the use of roads. The appropriate consumption formula is the calculation of the ratio between the area of the individual province per capita and the total area of the country per capita; the ratio of the proportion of the population aged between 15 and 24 years in the whole population of the country and the share in the country; the ratio between the proportion of the population aged 65 and over in the entire population of the country and the share in the country. The province's development index, which is the ratio between the province's development threat index and the weighted, arithmetic mean of the country's development hazard index; the average and the number of inhabitants of the province. This formula should ensure the complete autonomy of the provinces to which we also tend. The draft law also lays down the subject of the legal basis and the criteria for co-financing the tasks of the programmes and investments of the provinces. Co-financing from the State budget follows in principle a wider public benefit and promotion of coherent regional development. The third law is the Law on Elections to the Provinces. The purpose of the law is to put the system of elections into the authorities of the provinces, this is in the provincial council. The law thus regulates electoral law, electoral system, electoral bodies, general, early and alternate elections, candidateing, voting and electoral outcomes, and the protection of electoral law. The transitional and final provisions specifically regulate the first elections to the provincial councils. The bill is based on the principles of local self-government based on the constitutional arrangements of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia and the principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. If we look at it in general, all legislation prepared is based on a single system, that is on the transfer of the jurisdiction of the country to the provinces and thus on the gradual abolition of administrative units. This principle makes it possible for the administration not to expand significantly, and this is also the basis for a second degree of local self-government not to undermine the functioning of the State and local bureaucracy. Today's debate will, I hope, help bring many, new views or dispel all the concerns we have so far. There are parliamentary holidays ahead of us, a period in which time will run out for a 60-day public debate by the municipalities on the so-called fourth law. Thus, early autumn will also be possible to harmonise the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes before the adoption of these laws in other readings, both on the home working body and on the prey. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be pleased to hear the debate, at least in the part that will be constructive, we will also support any amendments to improve the laws, if necessary. For we want the laws to have such content that it will allow for a smooth, cheap operation and action for the benefit of the provinces and their inhabitants. It follows from everything we say that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the draft laws as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The project of the division of Slovenia into the provinces is a very difficult task, which no one has yet accomplished. The minister himself said in his introduction today that we have been preparing for this for more than ten years, all since we established new congregations with us and started reforming local self-government. So I wonder for myself if we could take a little more time to think about the creation of the landscapes. Let me begin by saying that I am in principle in favour of this project and will vote for these three laws today. However, the real dilemmas will only begin in the second reading, when I believe we have many, even contradictory amendments on the table. Above all, when the government comes with the next two, with the Law on the Establishment of the Provinces, where we will discuss the number of provinces and the headquarters of the provinces, and with the Law on the Transfer of Orders to the Competence of the Provinces. Finally, we expect the Government to prepare for us as soon as possible the division of the provinces into constituencies. Because this or other division of the province into electoral units will also depend on the electoral outcome in many ways. So, three of the most important documents have not yet been accepted by the government. We only have in our hands the Government's proposal to divide Slovenia into 14 provinces. However, 14 amendments were transmitted before the government called on the congregations to make their comments. Did the spirit escape the bottle before the debate actually began? It will take very great political wisdom and caution to succeed in the end. It is therefore a shame that we do not consider the entire package of provincial legislation together. I would like to say here that, in my view, the biggest discussion will open up precisely with regard to the number of provinces, the headquarters of the provinces, the transfer of competences from the country to the province and the method of financing itself. At the beginning, the profession proposed the division of Slovenia into six to eight provinces. The Minister has repeatedly said that the Government's proposal to divide into 14 provinces is a political reality, or I say better that this is the result of political bargaining. If we look at history, Slovenia's national territory was divided into four historical provinces: Kranjsko, Štajersko, Koroško and Primorsko. In the middle of the 19th century, Trieste was granted the status of a state-owned city from the province of the exempted administrative unit. Prekmurje, in the Greek part of the country, was divided into two counties and both had a seat outside the Slovenian national territory. After World War I, the criminal rapal border separated Primorsko from her homeland. After II. A number of changes are being made to the world's military administrative territorial order. For a while we had even 384 congregations and 28 circuits. It was the outskirts that reminded us most of the proposed landscapes. From 1945 to 1965, the number of robberies was eliminated, modified and continuously reduced to 27 and then to 19, 11, 9, 8, and finally to 4, with its seats in Celje, Koper, Ljubljana and Maribor. At the time of the independence of Slovenia, there were 65 municipalities in Slovenia. In 1995, there was a political reform of local self-government and new administrative territorial arrangements in the country. What can we learn from this brief historical review? Above all, this solution, which has been proposed today and will not last if adopted this year. When we established congregations and later, when we witnessed the further fragmentation of municipalities, additional financial resources were provided for their functioning. Therefore, it can be concluded that it is of such great interest for the establishment of new congregations, mainly because the municipalities receive more money automatically. The proponent of the package of provincial legislation, however, says that this project of reform of local self-government at the provincial level will have the character of a financial neutral operation. If that is the case, then I believe that the project is already doomed to failure. If we want to establish provinces, it is said that if we want to create something new, then we must also provide additional financial resources for this novelty. A few days ago, however, I received in my hands a working version of the Law on State Administration. If I summarize its content briefly, then I can say that 14 new administrative circuits are being introduced, involving 58 existing management structures with 204 local offices. It is said that at 14 provinces we will have a parallel structure of 14 administrative thefts, which is advocated by the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Virant. Such a solution is in direct contravention of article 14 of the Lands Act, which accurately defines delegated tasks to the provinces. This Article provides that the provinces shall carry out administrative tasks under national authority in the field of economy, tourism and hospitality, agriculture, spatial tasks, construction of buildings, specific tasks in the residential area, certain inspection tasks, etc. In addition, it is explicitly stated that the province also performs the tasks performed by the administrative units. With this confusion, which reigns in the government, there are quite a few questions. Has the government proposed a package of provincial legislation with figs in its pocket, knowing that the matter will fail because it does not have support within coalition species? Different. Is it not possible to explain the fact that, at another ministry, according to the Ministry of Public Administration, legislation is being drawn up that is directly contrary to the laws we are considering today? It's about the prestigious fights between ministers, maybe the prestige between coalition parties? Given the power distribution in the government, it is not difficult to tell who will pull the short end. I therefore ask Minister for Local Self-Government, Dr. Zhagar: How is it possible that this law, the Law on State Administration, has been brought into coordination within the framework of the Partnership for Development? Either they don't know what's going on in the government or they're not able to coordinate and teamwork. How difficult it will be to implement this project is also a eloquent witness to this map, which records the comments sent by the municipalities to the Ministry and the Government before the formal call and the 60-day deadline that the municipalities have to provide their views on future provinces. Part of the Gorenje congregations want to establish the Gornjegornje region. Ljubljana is seen as an independent province. The Logatec and the Illyrian Bistrica want each one to go to their own country, which according to the senseless proposal of the Government is even very understandable. Vipava and Ajdovščina want a unique province of Primorsko. In Goriška or North Primorska, however, there is a major discussion about the name of the province itself. Nova Gorica wants to keep the name Goriška krajina, but most others, or at least some of these other congregations, would prefer to see it called the North Sea Region. In 1993 even a referendum on the establishment of the Idrija-Cerkljan region was held in my constituency. We don't have completely uniform views either. When we look at the conclusion of the Idrija and the church congregation council, they differ significantly in some details. Above all, I am sure that from the establishment of the landscapes they will take the most directly to the seats of these 14 provinces, and everyone else as much as they will find themselves or as many crumbs of bread will remain on the table. The government will also have to offer something to others whether these are so - called sub-regions or something else will need to be settled. However, if the Dr. Virant project is to be implemented, I will propose that we have a parallel system of landscapes and administrative districts that the headquarters of the provinces and administrative districts are not to be covered, or that they are not necessarily covered. Therefore, I now announce that we will propose or if you want to demand that the seat of one such administrative district be, why not, even in Idrija. Let me get this. The profession advocates as few provinces as possible. The Minister for Local Self-Government, Dr. Ivan Žagar, or Government, proposes 14 which is the result of political bargaining. As a Member, I must first answer the question of where as a community we can best exercise our legitimate interests before the decision I am defending the province. However, since this project requires the provision of almost a constitutional majority in the National Assembly, I call for serious consideration. Political competitions in terms of who will be able to finally bury this project. I will, as I say, support these three laws in the first reading today, and we will see them in the future, depending primarily on the amendments and the laws that will come to the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I can say that I have finally awaited the decision or decision-making process on the legislation that we, especially the Primors, have been waiting for for a full 16-year period since the new constitution of our country was established. Back then, we were very active and eager for the Constitution to be in a different way, essentially, I will say, a more clear way of determining how to establish the landscapes, so that the procedure would not be as complicated as it was in the Constitution before the last amendment that we have adopted, as we have heard today, with, I can say, what respects a valuable majority. Now, before we have to set up the provinces that I hope to end, it is said that at a time that is a bit long given the first wishes of the citizens of Slovenia, who knew that the country could not function and even if it is small like Slovenia in such a centralised way that it works today and now. However, of course, we are never completely satisfied with every thing that we are dealing with together, because "more heads - more knows". And in this case, of course, it also has very different views and wishes regarding the functioning of the provinces. I would first concentrate only on a chapter in the Landscapes Act, which talks about the tasks of the provinces, which is so said, perhaps simple, but I think enough that fairly, very generally written. So it allows everything and nothing, we can say whether everything and almost nothing. Thus, for example, transport can be seen as transporting or allowing the landscapes to deal with provincial roads and the development of the transport system, leaving out again, as was the case with the municipalities, the regulation of public passenger transport, which is crucial not only for the internal integration of the population within the municipalities, but especially within a particular province. And it can be understood that public passenger transport will still be under the exclusive competence of the State, the Ministry of Transport, which performs its tasks in this area, nicely said, very badly. Perhaps a shivering word would be more appropriate. When we talk about environmental protection programmes when we talk about the development of culture, when we talk about the development of healthcare, I think that this article is quite clear, but when we read what it says about secondary schools and the powers of the province in this area, we can see that it is clearly written here that anything is possible or almost nothing. This may also have to do with the school reform carried out by the Ministry of Education and Sport, where ambition is to transfer, in particular, secondary schools, as well as primary schools to the private sphere, and that this may also make them inadequate in the area of education. When we talk about social protection, interestingly, all that the state dislikes and all that the congregation dislikes is now under the jurisdiction of the provinces. And I think this is very useful, because after all, the social area is wider than that of the individual municipality, because it is difficult to solve this problem and therefore requires more critical mass of people and also means to address this problem. At the same time, it is interesting to recall the disputes that we have raised in the congregations about a family helper that a family helper appears at the end of the point. Congratulations to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because this has saved one of its own, I hope to say, severe problems. When we read these assignments, 16 and 17 are now written, and then everything that has not yet been written here is asked what will happen to the property that will be pooled at the provincial level, and so far it has been invested by a congregation or perhaps a few congregations together, but not all that are in a particular province. I'd like to point out here, for example, the area of protection against natural disasters and fire. In southern Primorska we have two fire brigades or one is a fire brigade, the other is called a fire department, I think, a center, one in Sežana, the other in Koper. We also know that the Municipality of Koper built or completed a new building last year for this fire brigade, that the neighbouring municipalities, which we are gravitating to this fire brigade, were involved in the purchase of mobile equipment, namely, fire trucks, including fire extinguishers in high buildings and so on, but we did not co-finance the buildings themselves. What's going to happen to this property? We know what conflicts were like in dividing the property of congregations that had been divided into several congregations. What happens now that, according to the logic of things, the institutions should then be, because these are public non-economic institutions or non-economic services, the logic of things should be at the provincial level, but, of course, here is now the question of how to repay the funds invested to the municipalities that have been these facilities and these equipment for decades, which these institutions exist, they have funded. The question will also be clarified when the task of developing and financing theatres, such as archives, some other regional libraries and so on, which have so far been mostly financed by some or even just one municipality within the emerging province. I also believe that there is a problem with the establishment of the provinces when we talk about the structure, about the composition of the province's world, where, if the province has up to 150,000 inhabitants, between 33 and 39 members, some of the provinces will have just under 100,000 inhabitants. Especially those where some congregations will want to move to a neighboring province. One question for the co-workers and, of course, for the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development himself, what would happen to the Notranj Region if the right of Illyrian Bistrica was recognised, the referendum is now held on 22 July, if the right to join the South Sea Region is recognised. In this case, of course, the Notran province will be significantly smaller and I think it will be too small. And then, of course, the number of members of the provincial council, although it is a province, appears here, but in this case, it is also important that one member of the provincial council falls in the same number of voters in the state situation as one elected member or beloved member of the provincial council. Moreover, it is interesting to consider Article 23 within the framework of the working bodies of the Regional Council also the Committee on Roma Issues, while the Commission on Italian and Hungarian Nationality Issues is not in this Act. I think that at least what is, it would be prudent and appropriate to combine what we have in one paragraph, because, of course, it is different to look a little strange. And now one such curiosity question. We know that, on the basis of the European directive, we also have a provision in the Local Elections Act that citizens of the European Union who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have passive and active electoral rights, while citizens of non-member countries of the European Union have only an active electoral right at the local level, of course. Which also means at the provincial level, because this is the second degree of local self-government. It's all good and it's all good. Now the question is, in this law, we have foreseen indirect elections of the president of the province. He may also be elected as a non-national of the Republic of Slovenia and a citizen of the European Union to the Regional Council because he also has a passive electoral right. How does it explain or resolve that this citizen of one of the other European countries, the countries within the European Union, does not have the right to be president of the province? This is a question, although it is a logical solution to me, I will say a reasonable solution, but whether there is any constitutional or other basis for such a solution. When it comes to the election of the mayor who is direct, it seems to me that the right to restrict passive electoral rights to elect the mayor to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia alone is more logical than when it comes to indirect elections when someone may be elected to the provincial council, but he must not be elected president of the same province. That says there's something not quite right here. And speaking of elections, I would like to repeat what I said many years ago in the Law on Local Elections, and I would now like to propose again that we might also consider this option. You probably know all those who are following discussions on provincial legislation, that the Group of Social Democrats and the entire party support the direct elections of the president of the province, that we are not advocating a solution that is in the current law, but we want the President of the province to be directly loved, like the President of the country and the mayor. Why - I wouldn't explain now because it doesn't matter that I'm here to develop a theory. The fact is that this is a crucial issue of this legislation. However, the arguments cited as the reason why it is not direct and why the indirect elections of the president of the province were particularly rooted in the problems that arise when the mayor is, in particular, because we have very long, already 12 years of experience there or now the fourth term, that when it comes to the directly elected mayor, then the problem is that political stability in the municipal world is such that this mayor is difficult to create any cooperation in the municipal world with all the parties and lists elected to the municipal council, and that he is then having difficulty in carrying out their and his election programmes in the mandate for which he was elected. That's right. However, we have cases in the European Union where there is an explicit solution to the matter without any particular problems and which ensures, on the one hand, the firmness or feasibility of the electoral programmes of all those taking place in the local elections, both the President or the Mayor and the members or parties in the provincial or municipal world, as well as the sustainability of such a link, later, for all four or in this case when we are talking about the provinces, for five years. Why am I saying this? Because both in France and in Italy, I could not say for other countries, but I know that, in particular, there is such a solution, not at the provincial level, but at the municipal level, that those candidates for the mayor who is elected, or those parties and lists who support the elected candidate for mayor, receive 60% of the seats in the municipal council in the Italian case, and in the French case even 70% of the seats in the municipal world. However, it was explained to me that this constitutionally could be problematic. I think at least if not the other one, we could open up this subject and say a more serious and in-depth word about it. This is because this other aspect of this solution, not only is it then, according to the household, to say "little mal'ca" to lead the congregation or the province with such a composition. Even if only 55% of the seats belong to the President's option, it is quite enough to normally implement the programme set up for the term of office for five years. More importantly, in the event that a dispute arises within these parties and the letters that have supported the elected President, the President can resolve the political crisis by his resignation at the moment and simply go to the new elections. Why is that good? Because it is then a kind of guarantee for the strength of the workers who will lead the province for the next five years. I think that this is a solution that is the basis for serious reflection on the different resolution of elections to the provincial council and the president of the province, and I think it would be good if the Government and, above all, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, its co-workers and co-workers, but perhaps we will also have a public presentation of the opinions that we will probably require on the working body. I hope that she will be voted to open this debate on the law on the province's elections and ask herself if this is really such a revolutionary move, given that, let's say, Italy already has a third term, yes, a third term, and in France I think there is more mandate. And I think that this could be a solution that would be useful. And one more thing. This is about the tasks of the province, which one country or state may perform for the whole country. At the point where traffic is regulated in the province, there is talk of inland navigation. There's not a word said about seagoing. The sea is not continental water, and I therefore conclude that the intention of the proposed law to exclude the sea from the jurisdiction of the province would be to exclude the sea. I believe that, given the experience of the Primors with our province, which was called the Community of Coastal Municipalities, which operated the coastal area of the sea, it was within two miles I think it was, but it could have been a mile and a half, because it has been so long that I can no longer remember that it would have been useful if we had passed on the management of the coastal sea to the province. Why? Unfortunately, you, Mr Minister for Local Self-Government, do not know this, but we could ask colleague Janez Podobnik, and perhaps his predecessors, as much as the Ministry of Environment and Space has been careful in the management of the coastal sea. It was very worrisome in all mandates, without exception, and left the municipalities to care for the maintenance of the regime in the area, even though they did not have the money to do so, nor were they obliged to do so. But what bordered their territory to that sea, they had to do so. Like many others, they are cared for by congregations on land, on the continent. I thank you for your attention and I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Minister with the co-workers! I was, by chance, one of the ministers who, in the final speech, was critically disgusted by Mrs Pečanova. Perhaps this will be another topic on the coastal, coastal, and coastal seas and the great efforts of all three coastal congregations. I'll tell you more then, I'll hold off on that today. Besides not talking about these matters, I will not talk about each marriage individually, but I will talk, as is my custom, about the law that does not exist. And this is about the law establishing the provinces. My first point or point, which I would like to point out in a relatively short presentation, is that one of the biggest problems with all the efforts of the Minister, which I consider to be good for him, was that he was able to talk a lot, that he was also perceptive of certain comments. However, one of the biggest shortcomings and also mistakes is that we discussed the jurisdiction of the provinces, the financing of the provinces, the elections in the provinces, the role and the situation of the provinces, without discussing their size and territorial organisation and enlargement at the same time. The powers of one province can be very different, very different, depending on whether these provinces are large or small in territorial and civil terms. At the same time, it is necessary to shake off the illusion that the establishment of landscapes is essentially a political administrative act, that it is a political administrative division and that the provinces are not actually a social territorial community, as we say in spatial sociology, urban geography and so on. We do not establish landscapes on an empty map of Slovenia, on a "table race", as we might say, but in Slovenia we have a long-standing, functioning urban system, a system of cities and settlements, a system of hierarchies, connections, interactions between these cities and settlements, villages, we have some spatial system. And these provinces, when they're set up, if they're set up, of course, they fall into this system, they'd call it. And how they fall is a very crucial question. So we actually have some breakdowns, some organisations, some social spatial relationship, and that's the whole idea of regionalism. And this is when the region or the province in this case is the form of an organisation that goes beyond the local level, where certain social spatial relationships of jobs, housing, services, educational institutions, transport go beyond the locality and must be organised and organised at the local level. Someone who lives in Domžal, like my colleague, can work in Ljubljana, has certain services in a third congregation and so on. This is what's called a spatial relationship. The spatial relationship is 105 000 cars that come to Ljubljana every morning and leave Ljubljana. And it is perfectly clear that if you want to regulate, say, Ljubljana, then it doesn't matter what happens in Grosuplje, in Domžal, in Vrhnika and so on. And if we are not aware that this is the idea of the province, that we are going through a way of territorial cohesion and organization at a broader level, then of course we can talk about the provinces without knowing how big and how big they will be. The provinces must be so large that they cover this relationship at the level of everyday life as well as wider. The landscapes must also have some kind of center. However, the centre is not necessarily the only point that determines all life in the province. Let's say the typical example is, I'm not going to point out any of those new landscapes that are supposed to be, where they're arguing about where the center should be. This is already the first indicator that that area is unable to define the landscape in some way. If they argue about the center, it already means that we do not really know how or between them the opposition to this element of spatial cohesion is. And that's the first thing. Mr. Minister, we're just going to delete the landscapes. Half of them can be killed immediately. And the profession here is uniform, 6 to 8 landscapes, not 14 or even more. This is a problem that will, of course, keep us occupied. And more than six to eight provinces, I warn you, seriously, it's a flawed project and I won't be able to support it. In addition, the development of transport infrastructure, information and communication technologies, has increased the territorial scope of daily human movement, which I have already stressed a hundred times and thus increases territorial and economic cohesion in the provinces. Almost 30 years ago, it was believed that the lower threshold of the province was about 150 thousand inhabitants, according to the traditional theory of central areas. Today, of course, this threshold, clearly, can only be bigger, by no means smaller. And to what I have already said, I would add another aspect that I have already mentioned. That's the problem with this urban system. We, as you know, will introduce the Schengen border, except against Croatia. At this point, urban systems will begin to connect directly with each other, and they are already doing so today. You have the Trieste, Furlania of the Julian landscape across the coast. There's no line here. It's going to be a once-in-a-lifetime single large urban system. The same is true on the other hand, say, Gradec Maribor, Lipica and so on. Also, say, what do I know, Nova Gorica - Gorica. From this point of view, small provinces are a real problem. Small provinces will not be able to face on an approximately equal basis with these urban systems that already cross the Slovenian border. And that. If we have small provinces and Ljubljana as it is, Ljubljana will never be able to play that connecting, together with Maribor, the centre of the Slovenian urban system. And this one will fall apart. It's okay. Slovenia will not be threatened that someone, or, I don't know, the elementary school in Cyprus, will not be threatened in Maribor, they will not be taught only German or anything like that in primary schools. No fear of any kind of half-primary nationalism. But there won't be a system of interconnections anymore. He'll have more Koper with Trieste than he'll have with Ljubljana. And that's the problem. That is why it is contrary to those who continue to talk about the underdevelopment of the edges of Slovenia - this is a problem, I do not deny it - but the problem of the central role of Slovenian cities in the landscape structure is the same big problem. Not only Ljubljana, Maribor, New Town, all these centres, which are defined in the spatial plan as centres of supraregional or even national importance. And if we don't look from that point of view, we're gonna fall apart a lot more than we think. Why? At the expense of some of the pious wishes of some party politicians, who are seen to be large masters in exactly the same region as they propose, or this regionalism, crushing a woman's desire for subsidies. Everywhere you look in the newspapers, everyone calculates: if we're a province, we get more or we get less. And this is the logic of Kosovo's development in the old socialist Yugoslavia, where the main problem of Kosovo's leadership was how to show that you did not exceed the development threshold that would have denied you state money. The development of underdevelopment was the main theme. And with us, the development of underdevelopment will once again be the main topic. Therefore, development must, of course, focus strictly on projects and on all these things, not on some of the basic infrastructures that the state is obliged to build, but not more than that. And once again I call for understanding that let's stop, let's look at these things together with territorial possible articles, and I, like the other experts, believe that this is 6-8, and we have to stop here. Weak regions, like I said, won't be able to mate. And these reorganisations that are happening, which Mr Bevk has pointed to, exactly show this problem. Surely this Virant proposal is a response to Slovenian centralised administrations, to the idea of regionalism and landscapes, whatever it is. But at the same time, there's a signal, a message from the government, when it doesn't know what to do, it panics to reorganize. Let's stop this panic. Let's think again, let's look at the jurisdiction, the role, the function of the province within the Slovenian global system, within the division of functions and compared to the foreign, neighbouring urban systems, I'm not going to say that they are foreign, neighbouring urban systems, and let's do something smart from these landscapes, because I think we need them. I think we need them just for the reasons I described. I think we need them if they're real, but if they're not, I'd rather not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I think that, on specific issues, but also in the debate so far, I still have some explaining to do with the preparation, adoption and coordination of this legislation. As regards the establishment of landscapes from the point of view of their development function, I believe that this debate also implies that the establishment of landscapes is in fact necessary. And if we want to get to the provinces, then we need to adopt an appropriate package of legislation. As far as this package of legislation is concerned, basically six laws should be adopted. Without any of these six laws, we have virtually no provinces. At this point, of course, we have these three basic substantive laws in the debate, which in some way is the open Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, which speaks of the number, the seats, also the names, and which is adopted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. This debate is currently taking place and we are getting comments through this debate, which will conclude at the end of this month. [[I'm gonna go after them at the end.]] , on the basis of which we will try to harmonise and prepare a final proposal for this law. Then we have at the same time, on the basis of substantive legislation, already in the preparation of the so-called technical law, which is an upgrade to this substantive legislation. This means that we are already correcting or modifying this whole package of 50 and several laws that need to be amended in the field of sectoral legislation because they affect the level of functioning of future provinces. The last of these laws is a law that will determine the constituency, which cannot be prepared before we have the boundaries of the known provinces. As far as this whole package of legislation is concerned, of course, it must be said that it is not possible to propose at the same time the whole package because the procedures for the adoption of these laws are in the National Assembly and these procedures are also dictated by the Constitution itself slightly different. The Law establishing the provinces requires the participation of the municipalities, which is, of course, also normal and requires public treatment. This is, of course, right to get this right response from the ground that will somehow be able to give those best solutions. Ideal solutions that would suit everyone in Slovenia will probably never be available. Something that could be the perfect solution for me. There's no one else. Of course, even in this case the views are different, but I am sure that things are going in some positive and in some converging direction. As far as these time delays are concerned, I must say that they have been created, if they have already been created, without jeopardising the adoption of the whole package of legislation and the full implementation of the project, also because of the debate which was very widely held in the National Assembly. Not in this Chamber, of course, but in the stage of coordination with individual political parties. We have represented this legislation in at least three rounds to all the parties to this National Assembly, both coalition and opposition, and have also tried to take account of the comments that have been coming and which have helped to improve these legislation as far as possible. I am also convinced that this debate, which is taking place here today and which is still under way, will also probably contribute to the improvement of this legislation through the proposed potential amendments, which is essential, as we want to prepare a best-quality package of legislation, because we are finally adopting this legislation for a longer period of time and by introducing the landscapes we are substantially changing and interfering with the way Slovenia manages, of course in a positive direction. With regard to this technical law, which will give some more precise answers, although in the substantive legislation these answers are indicative of the fact that it was not possible to prepare it before we had the basic content. On the basis of the content being carried down, but we are talking mainly about this work, of course it is now possible for this process to take place. And I must say that this basic package of legislation has also been adopted at government level by consensus, so there can be no dilemma here, and the Government is committed to the country-building project because it is urgently needed from the development aspects of Slovenia, and not only because of this development aspect, which is linked to the greatest aid to those areas that are most under developmental threat, but I am convinced that, in fact, the landscapes bring development to the entire area of Slovenia. They bring some new development dynamics, including the most developed ones, at this point in time, where it seems at first glance that the landscapes are not needed, but I am sure that even through some system of competitiveness that arises, even some games, of course in a positive sense, will also be able to run faster in this part of development. As for the preparation of this legislation, I must say that far from being excluded from the profession. The expert discussion has been held at this level since the establishment of the municipalities, i.e. for at least 10 years. All those positive elements of the profession, which, of course, we must also say, are not always uniform, are involved in the preparation of this legislation. In this work, however, particular emphasis was placed on the financial part of the drafting of legislation, where it was also necessary to include an additional financial expertise in this area and to take into account the prevailing situation we have in Slovenia. With regard to these three laws, it might first stop at some of the issues raised by the first law relating to the transfer of content or the determination of content to the law on the provinces. We have three basic sets of tasks to be carried out by the provinces. The main purpose is, of course, the transfer of tasks, competences that are of regional importance from the state level downwards, along with financial resources and with administrative structures. That's what I'm stressing. And in this sense, this operation is financially neutral. So we are not even talking about new jobs, we are talking about moving jobs from, say, the central part of Slovenia into those environments that these jobs urgently need in a developmental sense, they also need a certain additional intellectual potential that will be present in the part where it was necessary to move. Here too we find that migration is present in Slovenia. An important share of migration, and we are confident that, even with the provinces of one part of this migration, or one part of these flows that are actually running in one direction, only to the centre, we will be able to redirect possible to another direction, i.e. to these other provincial centres. The second part of the tasks is that of transferring tasks to implementation, as regards administrative units or issues related to uniformity, to the duality of the system. The solution, which is now adopted by the Government and is also the result of the talks over the entire period, also at the political level, provides for a single system, which is being introduced gradually. They are transferred in the first phase, immediately with the establishment of landscapes, those tasks from administrative units that are closely linked to the development functions of future landscapes, i.e. in the areas of economy, tourism, agriculture and others, including in the area of spatial planning, in the field of the issue of construction permits. At the same time, appropriate inspections shall be carried out. The second part, however, is to be delegated after analysis as regards the rest of this title after this transitional period. This is also due to the fact that we do not immediately overburden or cause any additional problems in the first phase, because we want to ensure that the tasks that are specifically linked to citizens and citizens during this transitional period are transferred as uniformly as possible. The third segment of the tasks is this segment of the tasks related to the tasks to be carried out from the municipalities. I must make this very clear that we have not in any way intervened in the area of operation of the municipality at this time, except in what has already been stated before, neither have we interfered with the community funding system itself, as it has been set up. All autonomy remains with the municipalities, as has been adopted so far. It is true, however, that in view of the more effective implementation of individual tasks, we have allowed certain tasks to be carried up by the municipalities. And these transmissions can also be different from the environment to the environment. Of course, this transfer must take place in agreement, first within the municipalities themselves and on the other hand also with future provinces, by making it clear that this is the second level of local self-government and that the municipalities are the first level of local self-government and that these two levels are separate. However, the elements governing legislation are also expected to be established to the maximum extent possible in order to cooperate between these two levels, also in view of the dangers of, say, potential landscape centralisms that we do not want, and which are necessarily linked to some uniform distribution of services, institutions within individual future provinces. In this context, this transfer of the tasks of administrative units to the implementation of the future province is very important. Perhaps it would now touch on funding itself a little bit, because this is an extremely difficult topic, even in professional literature, it has been least addressed and is linked to the specificity of funding or also the tax collection system that we now have in Slovenia, i.e. the whole package and the tax legislation segment. In the preparation of this law on the financing of the provinces, we have come from certain starting points, from certain conditions of goods that we do not wish to violate. The main purpose is, as I have already said, to move tasks together with financial resources and with administrative structures from the state level from above. Therefore, there are no new tasks in this sense that would not have been carried out at this time, even though future provinces in their development function will have some new tasks and solutions. At this point, however, we are talking about those tasks that are of regional importance that the country is carrying out and that we are moving them down. And these tasks are actually covered. But we are convinced that the provinces will be able to implement them substantially, significantly more effectively, and will be able to give a significantly more effective emphasis to the content that is also present in different environments, namely natural, historical, geographical and other. This framework, this limitation is primarily linked to the fact that the public financial framework must remain as it is that this operation is actually planned financially and neutral at the point of origin, that we do not have new tax resources, that there is no new tax burden, that we have an extremely uneven distribution of tax resources, which follow in part from the development of Slovenia as such through individual areas, and in part regularly from the tax system in terms of covering these tax resources, and in this part we need to cover those legal tasks that are carried down, so we need to ensure the functioning of the institutions that we are transferring down. And in that sense, we went into the system in two directions. On the one hand, the appropriate spending system that ensures the performance of these tasks. We estimate that even within this system, which has been estimated to cover the implementation of these tasks according to current assessments, these assessments have also been partially forwarded to parliamentary groups, and in part these more detailed parts are taking place at the moment we are preparing and amending sectoral legislation. And this sectoral legislation will be ready by September and will then come into procedure. In this respect, we guarantee these tasks, but within this we also believe that part of the manoeuvre space is intended for its own autonomy in decision-making. So it's also within the right amount of spending. In this part, we have resigned in individual shares of the individual tax revenue available, but this has not been fully possible to cover the appropriate spending, because in this sense we could do the opposite with the provinces, which we really want to do. Instead of helping them to develop, the individual environment may be weakened or even disabled. We have to take into account the entire area in Slovenia. In the second part, we also want to provide the provinces with systemic resources for the developmental investment function. In this part of the transfer from this part of the transfer of these tasks, i.e. state-level development investments down, we have identified resources through a deviated share of the corporate income tax and we have also had to redistribute this income in part across the entire territory of Slovenia. If we did not also do so from the point of view of the collection of this tax, it could be that the individual environment would be without such a source, i.e. without the developmental investment functions set out in this Title. This is guaranteed to all 100% of the average and is the manoeuvre space within this additional 50%. In some ways, this rewards those more developed environments. I would like to draw particular attention here to the fact that there is no way that I can agree that we are talking in this case about any balancing device. On the contrary, I am convinced that we want to ensure, through this, comparable conditions for the performance of tasks and for the life of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, regardless of the environment in Slovenia, namely equality before the law. It is not a balance sheet, it is an equality before the law, it is a solidarity effect, but it is also extremely present and stressed in all the most developed democracies. Perhaps in this final part I would touch on this potentially fourth law, which has been under discussion all the time. This debate, to be honest, did not arise at the moment when the formal public hearing took place, but this bill was also based on the wish and request of the members of the groups when we coordinated the substantive legislation when we discussed the division of Slovenia. Nor did this law arise, or this division, which is now under discussion, come about by chance, but is the result on one side of the profession, and on the other side is also the result of political arrangements that have been going on for some time. In fact, this division essentially stems from the past mandate period and should also be looked at, it is very interesting who are signatories to the individual proposals of the individual laws on individual provinces that have already been tabled in this National Assembly in recent years. This solution is based on the statistical development regions that we now have more than 10 years ago than the original proposal, and these two additional future regions have indeed been added to this, which follow from the debate that took place in the National Assembly maybe two years ago or two years ago, when we adopted - this issue is already very much in the current - the law on coherent regional development and that is when amendments were tabled that required incorporation into the law of these 14 statistical development regions. At that time, because of negotiations with the European Commission, of course the financial perspectives, which were extremely important, we have not put this in place in terms of the conclusion and effects of these negotiations, but it is necessary to say that these statistical development regions are currently performing at least one part of the functions of future regions. And it's been a while. They are, of course, carried out within given frameworks, which have indeed been very weak in the past period or virtually were not, but have been and should have been and are also performing these development functions at this level. Therefore, it is normal to lean on this part, and not least today, we have heard that these divisions are being used at different levels and are very close to this solution. In the second part, as I mentioned earlier, this is the result of a political debate. I must say that, even in all visits to the parliamentary groups, or I will not say exactly in all the parliamentary groups, but in most of the visits to the parliamentary groups, after these discussions, the solutions have always been converted to this initial solution of 14 provinces. After we have adopted this package of legislation, we have also adopted this original proposal, formally submitted it to public hearing, added to this original proposal all the comments that we have received by then, although they were based on these informal coordinations, with the knowledge that there will be certain changes. However, we insisted on a baseline consistent proposal. I must also say that, as far as the professional part of the proposals is concerned, here in my behaviour and as far as I have examined this literature myself, the profession is not uniform. But as for the content of the legislation and this solution, even if the solutions are slightly lower, so we have less landscapes than we have 14, we have 13, 12, even by 9, if you want, this legislation, as it is now prepared, covers these solutions. And there is no significant change in that sense. Amendments to the legislation will only have to be made in some radical changes as regards this original proposal. For example, if Ljubljana were to be independent, it had a special status. In this case, we will have to correct this part of the legislation, which we are also aware of. Of course, there would probably be a change in legislation even if we had a minimum number of provinces or a higher one, maximum. Of course, personally, none of these two, minimum or maximum, I am not advocating proposals. The minimum number of provinces, for example, in the lowest version of the three provinces, means development exclusively on the Koper-Ljubljana-Maribor axis. Of course, I don't mind that this axis is developing, but we want that as this axis develops, there are also a number of other areas in Slovenia that urgently need this development; Koroška needs it, Dolenjska needs it, Gorenjska needs it, Goriška needs it, Prekmurje needs it, and probably could still be listed. And that's where these solutions go. When we're still talking about the profession, there's only two more lines in this part. Of course, the boundaries of the landscapes and the size of the landscapes depend mainly and largely on all other indicators that are important. Perhaps in some parts the number is even the least important, but also because of the critical mass it is certainly important. However, we must certainly not neglect the historical, geographical, cultural, developmental, traffic flows and more in the design of the landscapes. We are absolutely in agreement with that. This is also true of the number of inhabitants. Also in terms of expertise, in the part where I personally spoke to some of the representatives listed here, the solution to the decline in the number of provinces was mainly directed to bring the average population closer to 100,000. This was, in fact, the basic guide of these discussions. And the solutions that are now coming, including by the landscapes in terms of reshaping the original proposal, for the time being, show that in this sense this initial proposal, according to the number of inhabitants, is approaching this lower limit of 100,000, we will probably never be able to achieve this in its entirety. And, of course, in this sense, we will be able to round or approximate these relatively large differences, whether or not, between the individual provinces of this proposal, particularly in those cases where we are dealing with that really minimum number. It is true, however, that the effectiveness of a particular province does not depend primarily on the number of inhabitants. There must already be a critical mass, these derogations are possible, but, of course, the effectiveness of the landscapes depends largely on how the landscapes will be run. As is true at this point in time for congregations where these differences are still essential today, the municipalities are significantly larger and, of course, they are actually covered by uniform legislation, as is envisaged for the provinces. It's very important to have this management. And perhaps even in this part, as far as future provinces are concerned and when compared with the European Union, we compare with statistical regions when we look at European regulation at NUTS3 levels, i.e. these statistical regions. The European Directive here speaks very clearly about the average of 150 000 inhabitants. And if we look at this average, not the minimum number, but the average, then in Slovenia it is the good 13 or the bad 14 future provinces. It certainly holds and can be calculated. As for the excess of this number, I absolutely agree that the number 14 is absolutely that upper limit. My wish is also, or the hope that through these coordinations we may reduce by one of the future provinces, but I must admit that so far this discussion has not gone in this direction and let us be politically realistic. That's why I've said several times that the number 14 is a political reality. But I'm not up for this number to go away. In this case, I agree that we are not talking about 15 provinces, but we are talking at the time of 25 or 30. And in this case, essentially, let us deviate significantly from this basic concept that we have. I just hope and believe that the solutions will go this way. And perhaps, even though I will call back later if necessary, we are open to any comments that are yet to come. I am sure that there will be further legislative changes in the future stages of coordination, but we expect concrete proposals and concrete solutions that are realistic, which are professionally realistic, which have backgrounds that can be accepted. And which, after all, are also politically realistic, and I only hope that the political consensus for the establishment of the provinces achieved by the amendment of the Constitution will be preserved so that we can make this joint effort and find solutions in order to reach the provinces, because, in view of the development of Slovenia, they are urgently needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Finally, this legislation in the National Assembly, though on Friday 13. I don't think this is a bad trip, I hope it will be a good trip to this important package of laws that we have today under consideration. And also time for 12 and a half hours is probably some kind of record in this term of the National Assembly. This means that it is indeed true that there will certainly be many debaters. And that what has been said so far in the National Assembly through parliamentary groups and individuals is certainly some principled support. And the first support was already when we changed constitutional changes. 77 Members are quite a large number, which gave a green light for the provinces in Slovenia. Today's debate will show, and certainly something else, perhaps at this time, I believe that there has been a lot of debate both with the parliamentary groups, in the State Council, in the regions, in the municipalities and so on. We have already made a lot of comments, such and different, with the desire and aim to improve this extremely demanding package, which we have been talking about in Slovenia for 10 or 15 years more or less intensively among Members and also among the mayors, among the municipalities and so on. And I think that time has matured, if it isn't now, then the question of when will that next time be appropriate, that this second level of local self-government should be done and that we should take this big step, transfer, decentralisation of power from Ljubljana, to say, to the provinces. It is a fundamental question whether we have the will to do so. We have a mandate to decide on that. Constitutional changes are, this is not an excuse now, who will, this will be done by the Members of the National Assembly, whether they will press correctly or not, and whether in the second reading on the basis of this today we will probably make some adjustments that will compromise, which will somehow try to get the support of those who have some more strange views today. When I listened earlier to some Members, individual groups, I am surprised that they obviously no longer have any contact with local communities, that they have flown out of that local environment to Ljubljana and that they do not even have a feeling. That is why I have a good gesture when I sometimes said that it is good that this National Assembly also has some mayors, good that it also has some municipal councillors, that it still has contact with reality, with the environment. Not that some apparently do not know how many municipalities there are in Slovenia. There's not 200. 210 to tell those who don't know it yet are Members of Parliament! That's sad. And to talk about Slovenian municipalities, that it is a mistake, that it is a mistake, that it is wrong, that it is not right, that it is not what I think it is a great error for those who do not know local communities, who do not know local self-government, who do not know these small Slovenian municipalities, how successful they have been, how successful they are, how well they work for the well-being of those people who live there and, finally, have outstanding results. [[...]] They do three times as much with this money as they would with those great congregations. And such misinterpretation only by those who have no contact or real contact with the base or with local communities. There are more than enough reasons for that. I think everyone sitting here is willing to admit honestly that this country has too much centralisation. We need to fix this so that regional development is essentially more consistent. We speak so much, so many beautiful words that we have to make a more friendly country, make it more balanced, do it or do it. Now's the time, now's the time to do it. And with this first package, which is in first reading, and then with those who follow, we're going to show whether we really want it or not or have figs in our pocket. This will also show the list when we finally vote on these things. Differences in the development of regions are extremely large, not only financial ones, but also each other. I think that this gap between central Slovenia and premurska, if you want, or also white-screened, is extremely large. And we need to balance these differences a little bit. And that is the condition that what is being discussed today will also be about financing. That seems a key matter to me. There was a history when we obtained primarily from the country solely liabilities without financial support. This is the shiral of a variety of Slovene municipalities. Thank God, the Ministry, the Government and the National Assembly for correcting these mistakes, for having more balanced and fair funding from Slovenian municipalities today and for something to be improved. But the mistakes were pretty bad. And at that time, certainly certain congregations, certain regions have gone further than those. And the previous model was that the rich one was even richer, the poor one was even poorer. That's what I'm showing you from the case, from practice. I don't mean it. Thank God, this is a little different, a little more coordinated today, and I think it is this model of gratitude to this government and also to this National Assembly, so that even smaller congregations, less developed congregations can move faster and make better progress. However, they will still not be as successful as those who have such and different geographical, economic and other opportunities for development, such as Ljubljana and central Slovenia. However, these user services. We talk a lot; all in one place, the economy, all in one place, wonderful, very good stuff. We also need to do a similar story in the area of administrative matters: everything in one place. One-stop system, all in one place. There will be no customer, user, citizen walking to the door, from one street to another, from one place to another. All in one place to get closer to the services so that they can do the things that the citizen needs to do for his activities. I have no doubt that the province will be more rational and economical than the state. This fact is, I have repeatedly repeated this: the most rational in this story are local communities, then municipalities, and then for a long time nothing, then the state. Convinced that the provincial chiefs, the provincial councillors, will do their utmost to ensure that the money that comes into the province will be spent as rationally and economically as possible between all those congregations and the parts that work there. It is easier to achieve priorities, to determine what is more important, less important for that environment, because today you are difficult to do this to the country and when you say it, it has been a year and the story has passed. This is not easy and I think that these things, the speed of decision-making and everything else are extremely important for the rapid development of the congregation and the regions as a whole. And that provincial chief, who will be elected - either way, here, of course, opinions are quite different, some support direct elections, even this seems to me a good model, and on the other hand, it may be bad, as smaller congregations from smaller backgrounds will never have their own provincial boss. And what's good about it and what's bad about it? That the provincial chief, if they are direct elections, may be replaced, but whenever the current coalition is dissatisfied, while the one elected in the direct elections cannot be replaced by any provincial council. And there are other pluses and minuses. There are various debates, such and different, but it seems to me that there will be some appropriate decision here, which will be optimal, which will also give this provincial chief the real weight to the president of the province, that he can lead this provincial council and also have authority and that he can also be elected in the sense that he will be supported by the maximum number of regional, provincial residents. In short, the comments that have been made - I think that the Government should be commended here - are lacking in adopting this legislation, both of them, that we should leave something to people to decide. Specifically in this case, within the 60-day period given by the Government to the municipal councils to submit their comments. May the councillors, the congregations, the mayors decide to make their comments! The debate is taking place and I hope that the comments come successfully to the Ministry; I believe that there will be many, such and other, certainly also a lot of well-intentioned, those that will be able to contribute - in addition to us - to the debate on a better proposal for legislation in the second reading. And I believe that this 24th of July, when, I think, the last day is coming, a lot of this will come and you will be able to get some good suggestions from this package of comments from the municipal councilors and the congregations and a second-reading travel that will follow the fall. It's about trouble. Certainly, even the concerns of colleagues are legitimate. Normal. I think that every law we adopt will be accompanied by a variety of observations, "but that may not be the case," but life and practice will bring the final issue. Each law has its own certain negative consequences, which some accept and some do not. It is also likely that some of these concerns are warranted under this provincial legislation. One of the fears is the expansion of the administration. Surely, this fear exists. But if this is how we imagine it all going down, both the money and the personnel and other things - why not a gentleman or a lady from Grosupljeg instead of going to Ljubljana to Novo Mesto? What's the problem? Is there a problem here? The highway is almost the same. And what's the problem? There's none. Should we all go to Ljubljana to work? Why? I think this matter is perfectly logical and acceptable. Of course, but I believe it's the greatest. There will be resistance to the transfer of money and powers from the country, from the Ministry to the provincial level. Who, though, likes to give up any rights they have gained? Nobody! But mostly not the financials. This will certainly be the most difficult problem and this stage will be very difficult and difficult, I hope that we can manage it together. Of course, another problem will be our officers. Officials certainly are not excited about this legislation, let’s be honest, they are not thrilled, which is logical, because it is completely lifelike. We will not say anything new if we say that they do not support this decentralisation, which certainly "does not fit" them and does not smell. However, if they "do not fit" it does not mean that "does not fit" the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia this story. The third thing that seems very important to me is, as I said before, the financing of the provinces. I think that the experience we have with the funding of the municipalities can be a good basis and also a basis for the financing of the provinces. This is a very important thing, because without this autonomy, without this appropriate, orderly financing of the provinces, there will be no story of the province. There will be no development of the landscape will still be extremely different between each other - developmental, human resources and other potentials - and here this source of funding must be very clear to give these landscape councils and the president of the world and to the administration the power of action not only to be empty but to cost an act without money and not to act. We're aware of that. Here I think that this thing is well developed, that it has some good experience with funding the municipalities transferred to this package. I think that in the debate itself some more comments will certainly be put in place, but in general I look at: my view of this is positive. After the elections, of course, as it is supposed, and I think that we already have quite a few experiences, such and different, that this uniform representation in the provincial world is of exceptional importance to all interest groups or areas of interest, landscapes, and that saints can come into this story, that they have the power to decide, to co-decision on important matters about the provinces, and that these very large regional centres will not take all that they will sit in, but also those smaller congregations in regions that are more able to decide on these common parties. It would be very good, even rationally, if these elections of 2008 together with the state-run elections were perfectly logical, because it is the only way to make it cheap, and in particular not to make it possible for us to have a new election in Slovenia every year. This is a problem, then we have elections alone - provincial, national, local - and every year we will have only elections and then certainly what work can be stopped. I've already told the president. I think, because I come from Posavje alone, I am only allowed to have three more congregations, which are — now, the statistical region — join us; so six congregations are to join us in this future province. We, too, with the Ministry, with the mayors, the presidents of the municipal councils, had a public tribunal where we had a very clear "pull of pure wine" how and what. I must say that a great deal of consensus has been reached to support. 14 regions support this proposed legislation and, last but not least, support polycentric development in the region, as fear is also at some point so that new centralism within the regions will then emerge in the future. We will not feel this in Posavia for now, nor will we, because we have decided that we will give all these municipalities, in the province of Posavia, equal opportunities for accession to these institutions in these respects, because it is only then that there is satisfaction, only so can success and only then can there be greater overall progress in the development of the region, but not that, at the beginning, conditions are laid down that only one place or one municipality has a certain priority set. So I think that 76,000 people will not be the largest region, it will not be the smallest region, but it will certainly be a developmental region, it has great opportunities that we will take, I believe that we will take advantage of together, and that the landscape life of the people living there will be more friendly, more quality and accessible to all these needed provincial institutions that will come to the provinces and thus give more quality of life to all the people living here, which we can safely claim today. I am an optimist and, above all, a realist, and I believe that the debates that will continue until the final adoption of all these laws will be fruitful and that the Ministry and Government will listen to both Members and the comments of the municipalities, the municipal councils and find such a model that we will repeat, 77 Members, a story with constitutional changes. It's not a coalition project, it's a lot more, it's not just a one-party project, it's a lot more; it's a government project as such and a National Assembly as a whole. And only by such an approach will the country's story be given the same place in the European space as they do elsewhere in Europe, and I am sure that the matter will also be successful. Finally, I hope that we have one Slovenian Government and that ministers are working well together and that Mr Virant also knows what he is doing within the Government, within the framework of the powers he has, and I hope that he will not work in any of the areas in which he is in the wrong direction and set the red light to the province's legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you for the floor, sir, Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government. Slovenia is at this stage of development when it is behind the five most developed in the European Union. The rate of growth of gross domestic product is one that shows that these most developed countries in the European Union will certainly catch up in the coming years. Certain organisation in a system is effective and characteristic, as well as for a certain degree of development. In doing so, such organisation can become either a barrier or a failure to work successfully or an even better and faster development, which means that changes and adjustments are needed. Of course, it is about development and not thinking about underdevelopment as we have heard today. And this is a regionalisation project that is about development. Slovenia is on a level when it has to organise a second level of government or, if we want, local self-government. So we have to organise a regional or provincial level, whatever we call it. The meaning of such changes or aspirations is decentralisation of our country and increased decision-making at a lower level, this is at this regional or provincial level, where people solve their problems, their problems in a broader area, for some broader needs than is purely local; this is said to be some kind of spatial planning, regional roads, secondary, higher education, hospital health, then water supply where there is a need for broad consensus, waste management and so on, not to mention everything. However, in order to achieve this objective, the State must transfer its powers to this part, that is to say, to this second level, to the provinceal part as well as to what is most important, and that is the means and money without which nothing can be done. And finance is also the basic condition that these new creations can also be independent, otherwise we simply cannot imagine the efficiency of this second level of government and cannot expect success. So, finance must be transferred to the provincial level, of course, in the light of the delegated powers. This has to be coordinated, we can't expect less money depending on jurisdiction, but it would be nice if we got more, but it's not real, because then we have to have the printing money, and that's not going to work. So, powers and money must be coordinated. As legislation now shows, everything is going in the right direction and I personally have no major concerns that the matter could not come to life. If these provinces can also be financially independent if they have adequate financial resources, then we will avoid what happened a few years ago, when unfortunately it was then that our fellow Member was also in charge of the state budget now that the financial year he tried to increase to 13 months due to his income, and this also happened, but next year was a disaster because he has 12 months and then he has only 11 months left next year. And then all state-level transfers to investments stopped in the past 10 months, and if not at the provincial level of financial autonomy, then a similar story could happen again, and we didn't save anything, and we made things even more complicated and impossible. That is why the financial autonomy of this second level, these provinces, which we are seriously starting to establish with this legislation, is so important. On the other hand, care must be taken that local communities, such as congregations, do not lose their original powers. I think we have already said enough words in the course of drafting legislation so that this will not happen. What seems particularly important to me is that the local population does not deviate from any task that is now under the authority of the State, which is the most important within the administrative units. This fear was born because of experience with the reorganisation of the tax administration, which, as a system, works well - this must be recognised, but the access of citizens has been remote, centralised to the regional level. Some tasks can no longer be repaired, obtained at the lowest local level, that is at the level of the municipalities. This is a fact, this has happened and this must not happen to us in the introduction of regions as an administrative work or another level of the country. It would not be good to go to one center, which we all now criticize and all talk to, even when there is no need, to replace 14 other centers. And these tasks performed by the state within the administrative units would somehow distance us and someone would try to centralise everything in the centres of these regions. This would be a big mistake, the tax administration experience is here, and I think we can learn something from this. Why I specifically pointed out this - for a simple reason because I come from an area that will not be the center of the region but is the seat of the administrative unit. And so far, it has happened in the tax administration that now people, specifically from Slovenian Horsemen, had to drive to a particular exhibition, tax administration in Celje. Although this may have saved some kind of tolar, it did distance the government from the people. And this is the biggest mistake, because it's because of people, not people because of the government. But I said that this administration is doing well, we have to admit that. However, if it is not close to people, we have lost the battle at the beginning, it must be clear to us and this experience with the reorganisation of the tax administration is a little weak, but valuable, so that we would try to use these experiences in regionalising Slovenia. As I said, solutions go in the right direction. Things where more questions are raised will be clarified in the course of the debate and in the course of the adoption of this legislation, so that we will certainly find the right solution. Here I would mention another matter that is related to a certain fear that one centralism would not replace 14 - i.e. rationality. Rationality must be linked directly to citizens' accession to these tasks transferred by the State to citizens in direct connection. We cannot say, but now we will save one tolar, and 1,000 citizens will have to do so for tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of kilometres because they will have to drive to another centre, or to some joint centre to be able to obtain the relevant documents that the state administration is supposed to give to citizens and bring them closer. It can't be, and it can't happen, because then we didn't do that basic job. Access to these tasks performed by the State Administration for citizens must not be impaired. This can't happen! And the solutions they are are pointing in the right direction that this will not happen. I have already said that the state administration is for the citizens, because of the citizens. And we also need to take this aspect into account in regionalisation. As I have said, I support this legislation, I support this regionalisation, so that these concerns arising from the course of legislation will be resolved so that there is no doubt. I think that the approach is right, and financial coverage will also make it possible for these regions to be financially independent. I am confident that we will find good solutions that will help the further and faster development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. The proposal of the provinces that we have before us, although we do not have a comprehensive package of laws that talk about all this content, is questionable precisely because it allows for a debate and thinking also the expansion of the landscapes to the number 25. Indeed, the fact is that the ratio between the number of inhabitants in this proposal is between the largest and the smallest in the ratio of 1:10 and a similar ratio is also in the area of the province, from 1 to 10. This is an extremely large range in this proposal of landscapes in Slovenia. Here many debates and reflections are opened as to how we will be. Above all, I think that we should think about how to not only ensure a balanced development in Slovenia - which is crucial, because Slovenia is also one of those European countries that has farthest populated its territory - we must also think about the accessibility of services to the people in the provinces in all the institutions that will work in the province. This proposal, as it is prepared, does not, of course, make it easier for certain congregations and landsmen in these congregations to do so. Thus, their accessibility to services is getting worse or longer than in the current organisation. This seems to me to be a key dilemma in all these landscape proposals. For this imbalance between number and size is certainly one that must open up a number of concerns between all of us, a number of dilemmas, how to deal with these dilemmas in fact. I believe that these dilemmas would be significantly smaller if we took into account some strategic decisions in Slovenia and then looked for solutions based on them. What are these strategic decisions that are most up to date in Slovenia? It is certainly the construction of the highway cross, and Slovenia's integration into Europe and also the importance of the fifth and tenth European transport corridor. We need to include these corridors in the European system, but at the same time this also means that there is an inappropriate increase in investment in the areas where these corridors are taking place. And even if we look at the dispersion of these corridors with some connections, with some breakaways, this divisiveness is actually the most present in the Pomurje and Primorska areas. So these are some directions for the development of Slovenia in the future and are actually already in progress and we can see them every day in our work. However, many more open questions are raised in areas other than the 5th and 10th European corridors, or along those lines that are being built today. We must also take into account the financial aspect of the construction of all these corridors. We finance motorways during this period to the greatest extent with credits - so we owe the whole country to have this corridor built. We discussed Slovenian railways yesterday in the rebalancing process - we also owe the country to build the rail system. I warned yesterday that there will be a problem with regional routes and also with regional roads. In fact, there will certainly not be a highway to manage the countryside, not the main road, I think, but we will probably talk about the possible main road of the second class and the regional roads. For all of these roads, we can find that we do not have the resources available to enable us to successfully build and link to the motorway cross. While it is important to make important decisions in Slovenia when it is decided that we will develop the so-called third development axis. We have also developed solutions for the third A development axis and also for the third B development axis and finally for the fourth development axis. This was also somehow the answer, however, that, if I can illustrate, the "train does not take" for these places, but despite everything today we can see that there are still no resources available for the third axis, nor for the third axis, nor for the third axis, nor for the third axis. And this is the key question when we talk about how many provinces, where these provinces will be and how we will actually ensure even development in Slovenia. I think that this fact should be taken more seriously into account when investing in Slovenia's membership in future provinces. However, with regard to other strategic documents, I am of course convinced that it is necessary to take well into account, of course, the strategic documents already adopted, and I am referring in particular to the Decree on Spatial Development of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a relatively new document, as it was published and entered into force on 20 July 2004 and, of course, it was one of the first strategic, spatial documents in the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopted with the aim of trying to analyse the whole space, to identify some of the more important centres, a slightly less important centres, and at the same time to ensure as much as possible equitable development. And I believe that this document should be one of the key documents used in the design of the landscapes. Of course, all the landscapes are, and everything that revolves around them is also closely linked to the center. Let me point out the centres of national and regional importance, that is, in this spatial development strategy we have written that the activities of social infrastructure, care, service, administrative and other activities, as well as the most important economic areas and transport hubs, are placed at the centre of national and regional importance. The exercises focus on the most important public functions, the centres of national and regional importance are also suitable for tertiary and secondary levels of health care, higher and higher education, higher vocational education, judicial and administrative institutions and more specialised social protection and public research organisations. This is one range of activities, which certainly in the place where we have them, we have knowledge, we have the ability to employ highly educated personnel and, of course, we have development as a result. As a major dilemma in all these debates, the debate also opened with this spatial development strategy, an area that is actually away from these national centres, away from these transport nodes 5th and 10th corridors, while at the same time it is an extremely large area, which, of course, is in fact lagging behind both the social product and the added value of companies in this environment with all other regions in Slovenia. Unfortunately, it has never been as processed as the pomur region, because it was not a statistical region and it was in the central Slovenian statistical region. But, of course, I am talking about the area of Kočevska, and if I illustrate the solution that was enshrined in the spatial development strategy, the following is said: In Kočevska, due to the natural conditions, borders, the rare network of centres and the poorer accessibility to the centres of national importance are placed at the centre of the regional importance of the most important public functions and activities of social infrastructure, the creation of a variety of jobs, the development of production activities, and thus creating a higher function of the centre with a view to ensuring balanced development and a good integration of the entire regional area and thus allowing conditions for its gradual development at the centre of national importance." A very concrete solution, which truly reflects the actual relationship in this space, if today we were able to imagine and see this map of Slovenia, we would really find that this is one area that is completely empty outside all of these development flows, in which we invest enormously in Slovenia. This solution is also not, in fact, to be observed in the proposal of the provinces, or written in such a way that the Kočevska region is actually included in the Dolenj Region, which has resulted in some municipalities and locals having their own, I will say, administrative, main centre significantly longer than they now have, say, in this central statistical region. So, while it is already being pointed out that this is an extremely difficult development area, this situation is exacerbated mainly by the distance to access to the main centre or the centre of the province. For this reason, I would really like to point out that these activities, which have already been done, should not remain in drawers, because they are, however, official documents that we have in Slovenia and that we have taken to solve problems of equitable development and that we are finally aware of some, I will say again, strategic decisions in the history of the creation of the Slovenian state. These strategic decisions were actually made in Kočevska, and I should refer to the Assembly of Members of the Slovenian People in 1943, when Slovenia first received state law, since then Slovenia has been present in all international acts as a state law status. Later, at the time of independence, we can see that the key events were organised in Kočevska and the final independence was largely carried out and planned in this very space. These are some very recent historically important events, that today the Slovenian Parliament can even discuss in this Chamber and that we are discussing how we see the development of the entire area, and that, of course, we are also trying to ensure this through the formation of the landscapes. In view of these arguments, which we cannot really ignore, I would also like to add that we are not just thinking about creating this important development solution for this area, but that we would also like to point out that there are also financial resources that are not foreseen in this legislation today, namely, for the transfer of powers from country to country, there is a list of 30 laws that will need to be adapted and amended in order to do so. There is at least one law missing, and this is the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which also discusses how and how concessions are shared from state forests and how and how the lease is shared on state agricultural land. This is an important non-State resource that is not included in the state budget and is not found in these sources for the provinces. However, I think that the provinces really need to reflect, above all, a close attachment, not only to the local population, but also a close attachment to their natural lives. In this province's legislation, it feels like the greatest deviation from this commitment to natural life. If I'm just trying to show the amount of plastic, say, in the forest management area of Kočev, which forest holdings are paying as compensation to the state for the exploitation and management of state forests, from Turjak to Kolpa, that's the amount, unfortunately, I have this instant calculated or in memory only in tolars, 450 million tolars. If we add more leases to this, this amount is approaching a total of about 600 million tolars. This is already the sum of which this area has been accounted for since Slovenia's independence and there is no one, or most of them, I will say, I am correcting myself, which would understand that this exhaustion of this part of Slovenia is also on the basis of a political decision to resolve the common agricultural policy, the land policy, which of course we are not solving. Thus, with the resources provided for in this legislation, it is certainly one of the very important sources that allow for significantly greater development not only in this province but also in other regions. At the same time, it also enables real successful spatial planning and management of land and natural goods. There is no secret that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests has recently generated far-reaching income directly from the sale of land to be dedicated or to be built tomorrow. And there is, in fact, a source that the provinces must have, not one para-state institution, such as the Fund for Agricultural Lands, which does not operate within, as I said, the state budget, nor is it intended to operate within the provincial budget. Well, on these issues and concerns, I would really expect that, in the next process of adopting provincial legislation, we will really further examine, analyse and, above all, include in the package of legislation that we need to adopt if we want this legislation to see the light of the world and not least achieve that effect of the same and consistent development - as always, we stress that this law will bring it. For this area, I stress that these solutions, as recorded today, do not allow this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Davorin Terchón has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, it has been repeatedly mentioned that it is Friday, 13. I hope it's not some vicious landscape journey. Nevertheless, I must say that, according to my assessment, we are not taking any decisive steps towards the emergence of the provinces today. There are also more debates about what we don't have on the table today than what we have on the table. We have three laws on the table: the general law on provinces, elections and financing. With regard to the provinces, it raises some fundamental questions. The breakdown of the landscapes is the most important issue, with the most questions and the most debates. We do not have this on the table today, although it is true that we are all talking about 14 provinces, that it is already some material that is prepared. And that's what this is supposed to be. Today's package does not talk about it, is adopted by a simple majority, with a two-thirds majority we will accept the division territorially and eventually also the identification of the seat and areas and the number of landscapes. What do we have today as an answer at the table? We don't have a line. As far as content is concerned, we have only a few specific powers, and in the end, we do not have all the answers regarding the financing of the provinces. We just have a few. These are essential questions for me. We do not have the answer or the province will be in the final stage of the amphibian or not, or administrative tasks that are now being carried out by administrative units as state authorities or not will also be included. Minister Virant, who has also apparently realized that unit administrations are a relatively good part of the state administration, and this also emphasises that I am also joining his opinion, took some time to think. First of all, as far as content is concerned. As the law is now written down, I fear that the content of the provinces will depend, after we adopt technical laws that will allow for the transfer of specific content from certain ministries to the provinces, in particular on the power of lobbying the individual minister, the individual director within the Government and finally the confirmation in the National Assembly. We only have some remittances, something more concrete, but more or less is just descriptive, content sets, what the province is supposed to do. I do not know what will happen in the field of health, specifically what will happen in the areas of education, transport and communications, etc. This will all follow, and this content is not there. Of course, it will be very wrong if this depends solely on the performance of a certain minister, his lobbying skills and final confirmation in this National Assembly. It can happen to us that some area will become even more centralized than it is today, but that functions will be transferred to the provinces to a greater or lesser extent. I think that with these answers we should come in a package, and I also expect that the Government will come up with a second reading of this legislation, which is obviously going to receive support in this package of three laws today, with these answers, with more concrete answers regarding funding, content and, of course, also partitioning itself, because this is also a decisive step in the end. We know that we need a two-thirds majority of all those present in the National Assembly in accordance with the amendment to the Constitution that we have done, and if we do not accept it, then what we have adopted today will be completely meaningless and waste time after unnecessary. But if evil is already strong enough for this to happen, of course we will follow this path. Certainly, in my opinion, it would be significantly better if we had the whole package on the table and knew what we were talking about. As regards funding as another important issue, I must say that certain solutions are indicated, but these solutions go in the direction of the dependence of the future provinces on the country, on the central government, as is now the case in the area of local self-government or municipalities. We have 210 municipalities, as has already been said, and we know that the large, large, majority of municipalities do not create the necessary amounts of resources with their own revenues and are dependent on the state budget's funding. It is exactly the same in the area of the province, because we leave behind the main mechanisms for determining the volume of the financial budgets of the provinces to the state. The State or Government will adopt a regulation where it will determine the appropriate use of the provinces, everything is to the State. Moreover, if a particular province is characterized as rich to generate more than 15% of its average income, it will receive less funding if one is fed, it will receive more funding up to 15% of that tolerance. This brings us into the regional area, that is to say, to the functioning of the provinces, a certain flat-rate woman and a certain amount will be absorbed in the state budget, as the new municipalities, they will not be set up to create as much as possible. This prevents to a certain extent the initiative of individual provinces in order to be interested in creating more revenue. As far as the question of association, merger of administrative units and future provinces is concerned. I am in favour of the province also performing the functions now performed by the administrative units. Perhaps even thinking of doing so gradually is appropriate. Certainly, in terms of rational state administration, it must be said that it makes sense for these functions to be brought together in the future and thus to approach people in a certain way. As for the separation itself, this famous number 14, but I must say that I disagree with it. Slovenia, which is already small, is much debated about its smallness, I think it will take another important step to prove its smallness also in the province's membership. 14 provinces I think are very much in Slovenia. We know what our problems are as a result of this breakdown, and I am most concerned that these provinces will not be comparable and will not be an equal partner for regional structures in neighbouring countries, which is essential. On the other hand, they will produce an unnecessary amount of government or regional administration if this happens. And I'm sure that the number - of course we're talking somewhere - is significantly smaller in the case, we're talking about three, which I think would be a really far-off version up to about 8, because it would be an optimal option. These would be historic landscapes. [[Primorska, Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Central, Upper, Lower Styria, Koroška, Prekmurje with Pomurje possible]] . I think that would be appropriate, on average, these regions would have about 250,000 inhabitants, they would be comparable, they could be partners, they could also be carriers of future quality regional development. I therefore propose that further reflection be made and that we take one qualitative step forward in the process of adopting pension legislation in order to make this a truly successful project.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we consider today a package of provincial legislation, and because we find that another law is missing, we can find out a lot. If any of the sociology experts were to ask how it is that only today, I would probably argue professionally that we have not matured in the past to some social development, and it was necessary to do a lot of things during this time and that we are today at this stage of the development of society in order to do so. And when we do, be sure, no matter the number, no matter the names, we'll take a historic step. This is a historic event for Slovenia, partitioning the Republic of Slovenia to another level of local self-government is an event that will be recorded in the history of the Slovenian people under the leadership of this government, under the leadership of this minister, with colleagues who today also explain certain dilemmas and answer our questions. As for small or large regions, let us compare them with small or large congregations. What small congregation today is at a lower level of development than it was when it was in the great congregation? None. The practice has clearly demonstrated this and small municipalities are significantly more successful in the area of development, especially the basics of infrastructure. I'm sure we can expect something like this in smaller provinces. Today, when we talk about the largest province with 500,000 inhabitants and the smallest province with 45,000 inhabitants, it means nothing. Just as it does not mean or speak of large congregations or small congregations. However, when we consider a little detail, we can see that small congregations have evolved significantly more than large ones. And if we look only at the case, then the government and this Parliament also had to cut down on this area of legislation and amend legislation in the area of municipal funding. Why? Because it simply remained money for large municipalities and small municipalities were left without important state money or projects to run for the modernisation of basic municipal infrastructure. You know, I come from this part of our beautiful Slovenia, where, unfortunately, we are still talking today about some households still waiting for public water supply in 2008. The Haloz area is, unfortunately, one of such areas. If those Members and Members of Parliament, who you have already discussed today and who have left colleagues in the LDS because of some personal conviction and withdraw to the Independent Members, listen to what your colleagues are saying and what your colleagues are still saying in the LDS, you might find that everyone you have discussed today does not represent what your colleagues represent in the field where they are working and where they speak substantially differently from the content we have heard today. With regard to unity, duality, there was also a lot of talk. Of course, in a transitional period from a purely current organisation, we will not be able to go beyond this social development, and it is likely that at least some duality in the transition will be required. In fact, it is likely that a transitional period of the two-tier system will be necessary before we move in an organisational sense into a single system and that is what Minister Žagar was talking about. And respected colleagues and colleagues, maybe just names and number of landscapes. We were Slovenians all the time, and we remain conscious. If someone wanted to be a Primor, Primorec would stay in the coastal region. I have never heard any Styrian come to Ljubljana and say that he came from the lower or the central Podravje. That is why I understand all those Slovenes and Slovenians in the eastern part of the Republic of Slovenia, where they said: "We do not want to be Podravci, not central or lower, we want to remain Stajers, which we have always been." And I am sure that the public hearing that takes place until 24 July will also help to find answers to these questions. And once again, is the number 14 of the provinces the right number? Time will probably show that it was not the right situation, but the current situation and political consensus, colleagues and colleagues, has been achieved, however, we are talking about 14 provinces, which is in line with some of the norms, standards at the border acceptable. And I am sure that when we adopt a comprehensive package of provincial legislation, we can talk about a historicly important date in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! About three weeks ago, the provincial elections were held in Spain. Spain has 17 provinces and has 35 million inhabitants in Spain, so one province in Spain is slightly larger than the whole of Slovenia. When you go to Europe, you will also find interesting conclusions, and those who deal with provincial legislation seriously warn whether, from the administrative, economic, administrative and other aspects, it is prudent and when it is prudent to establish the provinces, whether certain tasks can be managed either from a state perspective through decentralisation, or with exposures to a single service, uniform criteria and all or put it to a provincial level. To begin with, I have to deny that, as a province, as a phenomenon, differences between regions can be reduced - they can, but they can not. Take a look at what happened in kindergarten. When we got the funding for kindergartens, the services at the municipal level, the differences have increased significantly and citizens are dissatisfied, citizens are dissatisfied because they appear as citizens rather than citizens. Of course, I say, and we have also analysed this with some experts to be the right approach if we went to the provinces only on the basis of the performance of municipalities, for a country with 2 million inhabitants and 20,000 square kilometres. In January, I asked the Government what this would mean in terms of cost and other aspects. Just for a little while. It is necessary to make it clear to citizens: will this increase in costs? Yes, there will be an increase. Will there be an increase in the administrative apparatus? Yes, it will. When you fill a citizen with pure wine, and then where the province's seat would be, the interest and interest in establishing the landscapes will be lost, because citizens have specific interests, how they will easily, with smaller costs can be settled. In particular, that house permit is a building permit. After the new, we will have four levels of governance. Slovenia has entered another level of governance by the entry into the European Union, of course, because it is also legislation and it is also an executive work, direct, not only the courts, but then the state, municipal and now this next level of governance. You can imagine how complicated, difficult and also costly coordination of all these issues will be at all levels, as stockpiling must be among all these. Previously, Mr. Secretary, you mentioned, I don't know, 30 or 50 laws that will have to be amended. You know, when you do change, you're going to have to multiply this number by factor 2, for sure. What needs to be done and how you bring all of this together, is already being put in line between municipal decrees, the National Assembly, the Constitution, the Constitutional Court and the European Union - how it is already going and is complicated. So people will be in trouble - how to get this permission specifically, whether it will be a municipal service, a provincial office or a state office. Or I tell you, those officials are going to say, "No, no, one part is here, and then you're going to the provincial, where you get this, that part and the third." The last thing that's gonna happen is they're gonna send them to the government. Speaking of a two-tier, single system. It's gonna be a two-time thing now. Five years from now, I'm going to ask you if you're going to put a double on a single system, so one job, for example, two masters, two authorising officers. This is going to complicate things for you. It's going to be very difficult. In short, the consistency of legislation. It was then mentioned that we will have the election of the President of the State or to the European Parliament for 5 years, the provinces will be 5 or 4 years old, depending on what else will happen in this National Assembly, what will be the consensus. We'll have an election every year. This reduces the power, the operational power of the government and the possibilities for change. Because every year is actually going to be an election year and it's going to be hard to do anything. But I'm telling you, people will also be caught in elections. We've got a lot of abstention already. If the presence is now 30 to 40%, then it will fall to 20%. This, of course, will have consequences, and we must face these consequences. Second, extra costs. When I talked about the additional costs, the direct costs in the technical-operational processes themselves, these costs will prove to be around €40 million per year. For this money, we get three homes each year for the elderly, which we now urgently need, and there is no budget, probably, and it is a need to build on private resources that mean different sequences. You know why? Because that's what's gonna show up. All these costs must be taken into account. When you get the provinces, you have provincial parliaments or saints, and these saints will want to go home somewhere, just as this Parliament does. Thus, for example, there is the municipal council, which will be about that dimension. I think that the saints will be about that much in the city council of Ljubljana, just over 40, on average about 45. Yeah, it's basically 15 small parliaments. 15 small parliaments, which will have some kind of government, administration. When you go to other countries, they have ministers. And those ministers are making a deal with the ministers of state and they're also coordinating, but then these services have the services and the ones that have to be. And every such world will have commissions. And these committees will work if they have the technical support and everything else. Not to mention - as is somehow happening in Parliament with a slightly smaller scale, but fifteen and these buildings will also be built in 15 places. And that's what you're saying is that it's going to be a decentralisation. Yes, there will be decentralisation, but then concentration at individual regional centres will certainly happen. There may be a decrease in the role of congregations. Of course, I cannot say this in advance for sure if we strictly adhere to the fact that the congregations have that property and role, then there is no danger, but this has happened where the provinces were introduced. Then, as regards the implementation of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. If I place it on the principle of local self-government, then it has the authentic right to acquire its own resources, including by adopting legislation that entails an additional tax burden and its own sources of revenue, it cannot therefore be denied. We can learn from this that we do not copy other models if they are not completely transferable. However, these changes regarding the provinces could be made as an upgrade to the congregations, the integration of municipalities, without the logic of self-government. Then we would not have elections, then we would not have these administrations, the representatives could simply be mayors with their share of that urgent implementation, for example, projects that are at regional level if they are really so urgent. I can. European projects could as well. And then, of course, they settle. Services as executive, technical, professional to carry out this. So the previous constitution, as far as the appropriate ground for establishing the provinces is concerned, for a country with 2 million inhabitants, it was not at all bad. That's why - some of the experts who analyzed told me that in this case it was some kind of political adventure. So if we were to "poison people with pure wine", how much value is added, how much will there be differences, if we said so, then it would be a question of their decision at the referendum, whether they are for having the provinces. Another problem arose when we talked to the congregation’s Februarys. Where is the center of the province? Ljubljana, the independent province, then these municipalities are supposed to receive the centre, for example, in Kočev or Nova grad. Ha, do you imagine? When you tell people that they will have a centre, a center of the province in Kočev, with Vrhnika or Iga, they will not get a fever and, of course, they will not be able to do any such solutions, even though it is possible to resolve otherwise that there are risks, that urgent things are being done at the municipal level or that some things are being resolved in Ljubljana, because it is not important to be before the competent office, but before the office that does it. However, the principle of a single state administration makes it much easier because the standard is the same, but it is not necessarily centralised, not at all. Administrative units, if we want to bring them closer to people, could be even more, but there are enough, and so they are accessible and most things could be done in this way. And it has central management, central management, but it's decentralised and close to the citizens. Because the citizen doesn't care if Mr. Virant is signed or if someone XY is the head of the provincial administration. They don't care what signature it is. For them, it is important where they go, what the process is, and how quickly they receive this service. Do we really need the provinces, in what way, what will that mean? We will have to answer that and we answer that question, dear colleagues and colleagues, today, Friday, 13 July 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, Mr. Minister! I myself have been thinking about what to add to this debate, where there is obviously a lot of talk in some way, a lot of presentation of particular problems in the individual provinces, and a few political differences about whether or not we will actually deal with this so-called problem later on in this mandate. In my own thinking, I will deal with two issues: one is the relationship between the centre and the field, and the other is the question of what is called, if you want, centralisation or decentralisation of resources used for public functions, and then the decision on how to carry out these public functions. First, it must be said that in a former system we have had total fiscal decentralisation. Let me remind you, there were 60 congregations, but these congregations made substantive decisions. They decided how many schools they were going to be, where schools were going to be, how those schools were going to be built. At the state level, we had only secretariats, and we had no government. Well, when we gained our independence in 1991, we had, for macroeconomic reasons in particular, because this system of complete fiscal decentralisation was fiscally unrestrained - remember, we had high inflation, and in each municipality, the SIS alone determined the rates of contributions - to end this autonomy and to centralize completely in the single budget all the functions of the country, where one place, from one place, from the centre, would decide where a school would be. In Velenj, where I come from, do we get another fifth, sixth school or not? It is logical that, four years later, such impoverished municipalities - and such a conflicted relationship between the centre and the field had to be resolved by the first reform of local self-government. Whether this one was the happiest or not, I don't know. But the fact is that if, as a result, 210 provinces, I apologize, 210 congregations and 210 congregations or these new 150 congregations are nothing more than the former local communities of these congregations, of course, the time has come for us to try to recircle. What we're doing with 14 provinces is actually nothing more than really bringing together a former group of 60 municipalities. If we look at individual provinces, the SA-USA is like this. These are essentially the former congregation of Mozire and the former congregation of Velenje. And it is right that we will get such a landscape, because obviously the political will is such that, of course, people feel that the center is too strong and therefore the weak congregations in relation to the center are materially seeking to achieve some kind of circularity through us as the authority of the people. That's why we have this story. What exactly does anyone hope in this, I don't really know. This is a very big one. One of the these was just denied that the provinces themselves would not provide development - and I agree with that. Unless additional conditions are established as well. That is why, of course, for me, the fundamental issue in the legislation we have today, that we are missing, okay, a debate on what exactly the law on the financing of the provinces means, in particular, a law or 50 laws, or 100 laws on the transfer of tasks from the Republic to these 14 provinces. Only then will we actually see if we are the process of centralisation of Slovenia, which began with the independence of 1991 and the abolition of the former SIS, by supporting this property and by partially dividing it into public institutions, will we, of course, succeed this process of centralisation stop and design it in some meaningful way. That is why I would recommend to the government, to the ministry - especially today there is no Minister of Finance, and this should be of the utmost interest to him - a clear agreement on how we will reintroduce fiscal decentralisation in Slovenia. Not only what resources will be at the provincial level, at the municipal level, but also what tasks and how these tasks will be carried out. That is not entirely clear today. Let me remind you, when we also changed the municipal funding law in 1994-1995, the way we financed municipalities, of course, stimulated the creation of new municipalities. And that was probably the right thing to do. It would go on forever if we didn't stop a little bit in 1998, and again, I think that in substance, I will say, almost definitively complete the desire for further decentralisation of the further establishment of municipalities with the existing law on the financing of municipalities. But the current proposal for a law on the financing of landscapes, due to some proposals within, allows these new provinces to be a place of development. What I have, and I want to discuss further, is, of course, how this will be implemented in practice. The fundamental question to be asked by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which now has power and all previous and subsequent governments, is whether they will be prepared from around 15 ministries, from 15 ministers to 14 provinces. This is a fundamental question. That, as it is called, politics will really work at the centre and everything will be carried out on the ground. This, of course, means that instead of having 15 decision points, 15 times, 14, if I calculated correctly, is 210. We will have 210 points in the Republic of Slovenia where individual decisions will be definitively recorded and where there will be a lot of mutual conflicts, especially when the decision of the Minister for the Environment or the decision of the environmental authority in the province number 5 is in conflict with, say, the decision on energy in the province number 6. Energy in Province No 6 will stimulate the province's 7 negative emissions and then we will have quite a few problems to reconcile this with each other. That is why I do not believe that the 14 provinces, which are nothing more than formerly united congregations, will be sufficiently effective if we do not take the next step in 1991 and before 1994. The next step is by my design of the land. Why am I saying that? With the entry into the European Union in 2004, the Republic of Slovenia became recognised as a country which can also acquire important funds from the European Union. By the way, these are not European Union funds. This is our money, which goes to Brussels first, and then we get it back in line with cohesion and all the principles. And, of course, since the European Union is promoting internal cohesion, certain rules have been created to bring this money back. And one of these rules is that it tries to give more money to those so-called regions at the second level that have fallen behind in development in view of the average of the European Union. The fact that 14 provinces are expected to be more successful in the financial perspective 2007-2013 than we have been doing so far is questionable to me. Therefore, my view is that we really need these provinces only for the next financial perspective. In the meantime, there must be a very clear agreement between what the centre will do and what the provinces will do. However, in the next financial perspective, in the period 2014-2020 Slovenia would be able to maximize the possibility of European extraction, it would make sense, as opposed to now two overrun Slovenia, with a constitutional change in 2011 from the 14th provinces to form three countries: Eastern Slovenia, Western Slovenia and Ljubljana. If we do this, it is possible in the perspective of 2014-2020 for the Eastern - and Western Slovenia to obtain somewhere between an additional billion and a half billion euros. Why am I saying that? Because at this time, if we do this, these two countries, the Eastern - Western - with the depopulated country of Ljubljana, could still be goal one. So when the relationship between the centre and the field is resolved, when it is clear what the provinces will get from resources and what tasks they will perform or vice versa, what tasks they will perform and what resources they need to receive, when they are clear, even if you want, the relationship between the individual departments and the departments in the provinces and between the provinces, then, of course, we will come to need to round these provinces into something more than the Republic of Slovenia. Are these three countries, as I have described them, whether, as proposed by Mr Žagar, this one is two-threaded Slovenia - I do not know. But if Slovenia wants to connect externally, and this is what some of you have stressed today, it cannot be said that Gorenska is based in Tržič and with all due respect for my fellow Member [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u41	In Jesenica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u42	Sorry, Darja said not on Tržič, but on Jesenice - to connect with Celovec. Nor should the President of the National Assembly go to a meeting to say regional parliaments, but the President of Parliament of this Western country may go to a meeting with the Furlania-Julia Parliament. If we want to cross and really get to the real euro areas, the whole of Slovenia must not be a euro region with Furlania-Julia landscape or, as it is called, the county of Reško. But of course you'll have to make out of these 14 landscapes something more. That is why, of course, there is a general debate today, because we still do not have the law in the right cut, because there is still no clear law on the transfer of tasks, I suggest to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to all of us, to consider this dilemma of the relationship between the centre and the field, the relationship of real fiscal decentralisation and whether we are able to do everything to optimize and the money that must go anyway in Brussels, we have to get it back successfully. I hope, of course, I didn't ruin the minister too much Friday afternoon, July 13th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Now that things are on Friday 13, I don't have a problem with that because my son was born on that day, so I really don't have a problem with that. As for the answers, so I believe that this province's progress is also going in this positive direction. As for some of the dilemmas that have now been raised by different debaters, I believe that I have already responded to a number of things in the debate, and I will probably repeat myself a little. As far as the whole package of legislation is concerned, I have already said earlier that the provinces do not need a package of all six laws, without any of these laws there are no provinces, but due to the order of procedures it is necessary to adopt this legislation roughly in this direction, as it is now established, because the procedures envisaged are also different. The first package of these laws, which we are considering or dealing with in the general debate today, is necessary to move forward as far as this technical law is concerned, since these basic laws lay down the basic substantive attributes of the provinces. The contents are known to move down, and funding is now being put in place. Of course, improvements are possible, and I can absolutely agree with that. As far as this technical law is concerned, it constitutes an upgrade to this basic substantive legislation. We are already carrying out this procedure, and we plan that when this substantive legislation is read in a different way, this law will also be ready to this extent or to some starting point. So that this part of the activity is definitely going on, but it is probably not possible to skip some of the procedures, you have to follow certain steps. With regard to the law establishing the provinces you adopt with a two-thirds majority, this law is currently in public debate, including with all the dilemmas that have been raised. This public debate has been expected and is also intended to provide us with the best possible solution. However, the procedure of this law is different, so it is not possible to take these things in a package. Indeed, this public debate is necessary, opinions forwarded by the municipalities are needed, and this law is adopted by a two-thirds majority. However, this part will also be carried out until the second reading of this law. The content of this legislation also covers this law, even if the number of provinces remains within these frameworks, unless there are some radical changes that we are not expecting. As regards the tasks, I repeat that this operation is financially neutral, also financially assessed in this basic scope. We're talking about, say, about 5% of gross product, which means we're increasing this percentage of gross product that should be further managed at the provincial level in the future and be accessible to everyone. To move tasks and competences along with financial resources down without any new jobs, but we are talking about moving jobs. And I reiterate that the operation is financially neutral, by not having any new tax resources, which means that all things will have to be moved down. As regards the landscapes and the management of European funds or the use of European funds, it is now ongoing. But it is true that if we had a landscape, some things could have been easier to run. Especially when we are also talking about these so-called major projects, such as resolution projects, because agreements at the province level would be easier to come up with. Thus, in this context, the implementation of these projects would certainly mean a certain contribution and a slightly faster dynamic. But no matter what, of course, I repeat again, things are running. And also as regards the potential drawback of funds in the next financial perspective, we have prepared ourselves; we have also prepared ourselves with the so-called "encouragement of Slovenia" in two parts, where we have tried to create both cohesion regions in such a way that, under conditions that will then rule, we will achieve the maximum takeover in the next financial perspective. In this respect, we are already ready for this in Slovenia. However, I do not expect to establish another additional intermediate level in Slovenia, as well as with regard to the size of the country. This would probably mean, of course, an excessive burden on the public finances for the administrative part, if we are going in the opposite direction in this part. Personally, I expect that by establishing landscapes, even through a significantly more efficient system of institution-supporting management, not vaccination - and of course, this province also makes it possible to move into a single system even after this transition or phase period in this sense only to rationalise things. And I personally do not see those additional costs, but it is true that certain fears or certain warnings may be present, and it is right to warn about these things. At least not at this stage when the provinces are established and when they start to work. Of course, in the coming stages, the provinces will assume their own responsibility for their own development, take responsibility for their own way of managing within the legal framework and, in terms of autonomy, will not be able to intervene in this system unless local self-government autonomy is violated. I think there have been quite a few questions about the accessibility to services that are actually being provided in administrative units at the moment. The introduction of the provinces also preserves this accessibility at the time of the relocation of these tasks. This means that, of course, citizens and citizens will still go to that address by, say, building permit as they go today, if we are talking about physical presence. Indeed, they will go to one province, but now they have gone to the administrative unit, as is now envisaged in the law. And I don't see any special problems here. I am even convinced that from the establishment of the provinces, from this part also assumes responsibility for services within the individual provinces, including political responsibility, that this accessibility - and this is also guaranteed, even in the law - can only be improved. Because of this pressure, it will be possible if things do not work out well, because these things and also this part are closer to people and we know that closer to managing the end user is a service. That's what's coming from this address. In any case, too, for example, the upcoming expansion in the area of e-government, with a goal in this area, telecommunications, goes precisely this way, so that there is no particular problem here. There's no fear here, even though I know that these old people often try to oversenet themselves in public. And this fuse has been specifically incorporated into the law itself, that the quality of services and access to services must be at least the same as at this time. It is also possible, as far as the entire package of legislation is concerned, in connection with the question raised by the honourable Member, Mr Weber. The fact is that now that we are reviewing the entire package of legislation that needs to be corrected, we are interfering with specific areas. The number of laws from that initial proposal, which has only been initially mentioned, has already increased, this is true, and, of course, we are also considering the Agricultural Fund Act and the transfer or management is envisaged, the solutions have not yet been finalized at this time, this part of the property to the provinces, at least to a certain extent. In particular, to the extent or to the extent relevant to the implementation of these activities in a developmental sense to the provinces.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. A lovely greeting to all present on my behalf as well! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't think we're asking ourselves today whether we need the landscape or not, as we heard in one of the debates. I believe that we gave an answer to this question a good year ago when we reached a high level of political consensus and changed the constitution. With this moment I have estimated that the route has been routed to - indeed, with great delay, but nevertheless - to the regionalisation of Slovenia. And even today and in recent months in these debates, which we are listening to, I must say that the majority of opinions support the regionalisation of Slovenia. That the majority policy position is that Slovenia needs to be regionalised, that Slovenia can develop faster than it has been done years ago, and that fundamental issues are emerging elsewhere. They appear at the number, under the authority, in the task. In this first part of the issue of numbers, it is undeniable that, at the final stage, there will have to be a compromise or a solution that will be supported by two thirds in this National Assembly. This is a reality and this reality must be faced, and we must not ignore all the other segments related to this issue. We must not neglect our powers, we must not neglect our tasks, because I do not think it is as important in what part and in what number Slovenia is regionalised. But we're limited. The fact is that we are limited in this area, not only internally, but also externally. We heard earlier, Mr. Secretary said, at NUTS3 this number somehow ends at 14. And the greatest probability that has now been put into a public debate, which is being concluded at the end of this month, speaks of this number. There are 12 statistical regions plus two additional regions for which interest has been expressed in the local environment. And perhaps this interest cannot be overlooked if it has already been expressed in the past. I estimate that we already have some kind of landscape linkage from the moment the municipalities began to merge within these so-called development regions, these links have already emerged. And I think that these connections were the right ones, the substantive ones, because they brought together the common interests of communities and people in a particular environment. And I am afraid that what is happening to us in certain environments now is moving away from what has happened in the past, that there are now certain probatives, indications of certain or different ambitions that do not have any connection with these real links. I personally assess that taking the Government as the basis for the development or statistical region is not bad. That's good. And even at this given moment, probably politically the only real and possible. And at this point, I have no comments. That is why I do not understand certain opinions that speak in this direction, that it should be established that the minimum number of inhabitants would allow the possibility of establishing a particular province is 100 000 or 120 000. On the other hand, we hear from these same mouths that statistical regions should be taken into account. Now these two aren't going together! These two don't go together. We already have these developing statistical regions with fewer inhabitants. On the other hand, why 100, 120 grand? We got it, we got it, we got it, we We have three who have less than 100,000, Mr. Moge. On the other hand, why 100,000 or 120, why not 200 or 250 or 500, if the number of inhabitants is really the one that makes a certain connection work. I do not think that this is such an important question that the number of inhabitants is not such an important issue; other issues are much more important. Even now, if we look at the congregations, this logic would make small congregations unsuccessful. For example, those who have 5, 7, 8 thousand inhabitants would be less successful in this logic than those who have 30, 50 or even 200 or more, and we see that this is not the case. We can see it not only in this and past years, but in just a few years. We are meeting in the largest congregation in this country, but I am not sure that it has been successful in the past two mandates, not according to any indicators. On the other hand, we have a number of municipalities, which are small, ranging from 5, 7, 8, or even fewer, thousands of people who have proven that they can move the development component faster than some major municipalities. Thus, the number of inhabitants is certainly not the correct criterion on which to assess whether a particular link is appropriate or not. It is undeniable that the performance of action at the final stage is conditioned by people, conditioned by those entrusted with a mandate to justify within a given period the trust given to them. Of course, they must also have adequate resources, and it is my opinion that, as the provincial legislation is now presented, this makes it possible. What is most important and what has been repeatedly highlighted and where the greatest fears are - and here I must say that I agree with all those who advocate this principle - is neutrality. It is very important that, by the province's division, by the establishment of the landscapes, it does not increase, on the one hand, the resources for the operation of the apparatus and on the other hand, so as not to increase the wealth of the work that has nothing in common in the development sense. And these principles, which we have in our legislation on the table, speak for the sake of this thesis. Of course, I think we will have to be very careful when adopting implementing legislation. I think that we have a very important job to do here, and I personally want as much coordination as possible in this area and also in this legislation as possible, despite the fact that there is no formal need, not only for the law that requires it under the Constitution, because it is only a project that is our joint project. A project that is in the interest of the whole country and of all citizens and citizens. Here I think there is nothing wrong with taking a little more time to speak frankly and very broadly about these issues. As an example, I would like to give one concrete example; I have been working in this area for a while, and I know things a little bit more. It is said that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the Public Fund, is also to be divided regionally. I think it's important to be very careful with these things. Just as an example, I think there's something else about such cases, but I can say in concrete terms that this would be a mistake, that would be a step in the wrong direction. If this were to happen 10, 12 years ago - yes; but today I don't think so. Why? Because this real estate fund has moved into the financial fund. And most of this housing business for those who cannot in their own way with their own resources or with their own help come to a solution to this problem, this is his most important task, he will also be obliged to provide in the future. This cannot be done if we do not have the critical mass of capital if we do not have the appropriate supports. And here I think we need to think in a different direction; we need to think in the direction of strengthening the possibility that more stories can happen than we are now witnessing, and in the sense of amending legislation that will allow land to be more easily accessible for such purposes when non-profit dwellings are being built or at some level up to €1300. In this respect, I think that we should go with the right thinking and it would not be good for an institution that depends on what capital critical mass it has to be divided into some parts that will not be effective after the individual parts. Even when the congregations were formed, there were a number of fears. Much has been said about the fact that by dividing the congregations we will witness that small congregations will not be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them. Something similar is happening to us in the case of provincial legislation. I don't think these fears are justified. Cases in practice prove that I know in the area from which I come, virtually all those congregations that came from previous major congregations. I must say that they are getting more and more successful than they were before within the common congregation, they are developing significantly faster, there are significantly more initiatives in their area and, if I say so domestically, there is much more going on than before. Why? Because those who decide these things are close to people. The mayor of a congregation cannot withdraw to an office and say, "I am not." The parishioners have people ahead of them, at any time they can knock on their hands, those who do this business know this very well, and this responsibility towards people is significantly greater than that of an official in an office in one sixth or the tenth floor of a glass salary that cannot be perceived in this way. For this reason, I am not afraid of this transfer of powers from the country to this provincial level. I believe that this will enable faster development than we have seen in the past. I firmly believe that if the reform were to take place some ten years ago, these effects are now known. The will of local authorities and the will of people will be very important in this whole story. It will be very difficult to take into account all the initiatives that we will receive and will take place during this period without jeopardising the consistency of the landscape legislation system. Very hard. It's practically impossible. For this reason, I think it is very important for the Government to define all these things and to provide very clear answers in all matters, why it is so and in another case. I personally think it's very difficult for people to impose a matter they don't think is good. Even if it is to their detriment and if they rely on their arguments to decide for a certain connection because "the storm blows in a certain direction" and "the waters flow in a certain direction". Even if the argument is just this and no one else, it is very difficult to go against such will; and even if it is to the detriment of people. For these waters and these winds will still run in exactly the same direction, that is perfectly clear, regardless of the connection. It is true, however, that in such a case, if such a will is taken into account - and unfortunately, I think it will have to be taken into account, because I cannot imagine the functioning of an environment, if so opposed - would be particularly detrimental to that particular environment. But that is another question and another story that we will likely discuss in that law that requires a two - thirds majority. I must say that with this effort, which has been made so far, and with this effort, which has been looked forward to the future, I am satisfied and I really hope that we will adopt this legislation this year and thus enable the rapid development of Slovenia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! I come from the Municipality of Žalec from the Lower Savinja Valley. I underline the lower Savina Valley because in so far unique our beautiful green Savina Valley was this valley geographically, historically, sociologically, traffic, touristic, naturally connected valley. From this proposal, the Government, after dividing the upper part of the Savinijska Valley into the upper part of the Savinijska Valley, belongs to the Savinijsko-Shaleška Region and the lower part of the Savinijska Valley to the Savini region, which extends from Vransko to Rogatec, to the Croatian border, with its intended seat in Celje, it would be at least logical to call the Celje Region. But this only points to superficiality, to inconsistencies, to what is likely to happen even at a time when the government will receive comments from the municipal councils after various changes, after various secessions, connections, and so forth. Therefore, it is a shame to lose words, more importantly, what this legislation brings in a meaningful sense. I am positive about today's debate when I am listening to colleagues and colleagues from different parties, because so far there has been legislation, provincial legislation, as was said in one of the councils, like the Emperor's new clothes: we will all be thrilled, we will have regions, the principle position has been given by all the parties, the two-thirds amendment in Parliament - but some have begun to wonder whether these clothes are correct or are, according to the measure of these Slovenia and these inhabitants, and today's debate shows that there are very many issues, very much confusion and I am sure that at this time, when this technical law is being prepared, and when the deadline for the second hearing is running, there is still much warning that this political consensus is likely to be such a political model that it is not suitable for adoption. It is difficult to understand why it is not an expert proposal from 6 to 8 but a political one, and why politics then stopped at 14 and did not leave the possibility to others. I am sure that the main argument in this, politically realistic assessment, is that it is possible to pull this off. However, it would be good for all colleagues and colleagues to receive a report from the parliamentary delegation which was in the Czech Republic for the month of June and where three colleagues from the position and two from the opposition could see and hear the assessments they have in the Czech Republic. We know that in 2000 the Czech Republic carried out regionalisation, we know that there are 14 regions with 10 million inhabitants in the Czech Republic and that since they were established in the same way with the then political consensus, which was far from the professional process, it has been in the Czech Republic to amend the provincial legislation. While three cases of three different regions have made it very clear that things have been misplaced and that this has caused many problems, both in the area of additional employment and what is likely to happen in Slovenia with such incomplete legislation, the uncertainty as to how much authority remains at the municipal level, how much it brings up, how much from the Ministry down. I think there was a lot of this said today, and it's a shame to spend extra time with this listing. It is true that we all want regions to be established, that it is unacceptable that we have delayed this establishment for as long as it is true that such regions must not be allowed at all costs. That is why I am confident that there will be a further time, at the time when we will get the boundaries, when we will also get the funding method, a time when we will be able to make decisions. Probably the words of the Minister and the Prime Minister of the Government sound very nice when they visit, but when it comes to determining how much money there is, how much and what powers there are, it is postponed here and waiting for the technical law so that it also resembles a bit of a 'cat in a frog'. I am sure that all the warnings that have been and will still be given will be directed precisely to get quality provincial legislation, which would be according to the measure of Slovenia. So I'm sure and happy it will be. In view of the fact that you, Mr Minister, have publicly stated that today's son has a birthday - a sincere congratulations, and I hope that not all colleagues and colleagues will spend all their time to arrive in time for the celebration today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, we would be even shorter if Mr Posede did not perform. But the more I listen to this debate, the more the Slovenian river is somehow confirmed, which says that "the path to hell is mostly pressured by good intentions." Of course, we all want what actually led the government in these proposals, we want decentralisation and polycentric development, and on the other hand we are afraid that instead of one centre we will get 14 or how many other centres and that is why - at least that is how I explain it; so much commitment to additional provinces. So, we all want to be the 15th with a seat, because they're promising some benefit: we're going to have a county seat, we're going to have a decision about the rest of us. And this is the temptation that brings me into all of this some form of doubt. I'm afraid that's what I'm afraid of, even if I'm coming out of our local situation. The two former congregations, in the former congregation, would say, to the socialist system, which, of course, are now divided into several smaller congregations, should form a common province in a relationship where one is twice the size of the other. And it will, of course, be very difficult for people to say that there will now be a situation where we will somehow develop evenly, which is actually the motto that leads us to this regionalisation. And because people from the past know these problems, this decision will be so much more difficult. I'd like to -- I won't be long, I'll finish quickly -- add another thought. I am not sure, Mr Minister, that in this regional division, the provincial councils should actually be regarded as strictly political bodies that will be loved in direct elections. I think that if these provincial councils did not have any legislative function, they could put this system in a different position. In fact, I can say from our experience, where, say, formerly, or what should I say, congregations formed in the field of the former Avian congregation operate through a scheme as a province where mayors meet together and make decisions that are important to all 15 congregations. I'm not saying that the provincial council should be made up of mayors, they could be, I don't know, appointed representatives to the municipal council. However, if they were not elected directly, they would not be given this strong political legitimacy, which they will actually have through direct election. In doing so, I am actually concerned that if, as a politically elected body, the provincial council decides on something, it will make some decisions that will not be consistent with decisions or with the strategies of the municipalities. Well, that could happen. Otherwise, there will be an organ, an advisory body composed of mayors, but I am interested in the role that this consultative body will play. And here is the temptation for congregations to start taking up assignments and to move to the province, which is very large. It must also be borne in mind that there will not always be a government in power that favors the coming of smaller congregations. One day there will be a change and they will come to power, for example, those who are strictly against the congregations. Here today there are many of these lions in this House or today they are in opposition parties - they have done everything against the municipalities. And while these small congregations are very successful, they still claim that they need to be abolished and so on that they are not for this purpose. And of course, when they get these levers into their hands, they will do what they say today, even through legislation. That is how it is necessary to actually think about it today and see what will then happen in a situation like this, when they actually start taking the laws away - because I understand this today when I hear that this is Mr Cyril Ribič's idea that this matter will go in this direction. In fact, they have once shut down the congregations and made those larger self-governance units, now former municipalities, and therefore they are also against the fact that today this process of local self-governance is somehow decomposing in the direction we once had in 1945, and today it appears to be a successful local system of self-governance, because these small congregations have actually started to develop very successfully everywhere and it would be a waste of this development today in some way to stop. And also this integration, the club, if we don't have any landscapes, has been somehow lately, especially now that the municipalities need to be connected to use these funds for coherent regional development, this is happening. I am not saying that everywhere equally successful, somewhere before they realized that they had to connect, that they had to do big projects together, but actually at this point these projects are already being implemented in some way in certain related municipalities. And for that reason alone, it would be necessary to establish the provinces now, so I do not personally think that way. As for the number of landscapes - and I will conclude with this - I would personally like to see fewer of these landscapes and to be somehow more compatible, even though they will never be, with the countries in our neighbourhood, but with some form of cooperation, I see more at this level than if we do these 14 in Slovenia or perhaps at the end of more of these smaller landscapes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry, too, Mr. Secretary, but we fell into a game called the aardine hat. This is such a game where the top is wrapped, intertwined, complicated and goes under, over and through various obstacles. The goal of this game is to take this hat away, but so far no one has, so it's called an aardine hat and we've fallen into it. All the time we started talking about regionalisation at the first NUTS level, I realized how strong that river was when one found that "for the sake of the forest he did not see the tree". What do I mean by that? Well, first of all, the fact that there will be no political divisiveness, that we are people here, who have their own vision, their own performance, and therefore this first consideration is also to say what we think and to find out what is best of all. And secondly, let me say that you are of course - this was positively meant - that you went to the game of aardine hats in good purpose and you did something, which is absolutely insanely difficult. But I personally realized that what is best today is the best and the best. I say that two million Slovenia with 200 000 square kilometres is beautiful, green, with mountains, lakes and sea-gifted region - beautiful. We have 12 statistical regions in which mayors who have the same interests are connected, we have regulated administrative operations and, of course, hierarchical levels regulated, from ministries, government services to administrative units, and not least to local self-government. The deal is off, and I think we're living a very nice life today, just like we do. And finally, we are comparable, even if we are already a large country called the European Union, we are perfectly comparable regionally as one beautiful - once again I say - beautiful region. It's one option. It's never too late. Another option that I have already discussed in the previous term, when I was Vice-President of the Committee or of the Commission for European Affairs. At that time, it was the idea for Slovenia to be regionalised, as it is at the first NUTS level, so on cohesion, to be the same in Slovenia as we are in the European scale, even in the national scale of two regions. That's a different option. Of course, the third option is the one with which you, the distinguished Minister, and the basic laws, which are not all yet, have come out, is also possible. We have heard well from the speaker that it is based on statistical regions, which were 12, which is why if the two-thirds majority were to agree with. From here on out, what we're all afraid of began. At the beginning, we immediately added two to the traditional statistical regions, which are somehow used. But it's only one step and when you've worked hard and put together all these acts, papers and all these network arrangements, and we haven't even started talking about laws, regionalization, because you've probably experienced a lot of concerns, protests, thinking, ideas, demands. And as has been said many times today, "the spirit has escaped from the bottle." But the most interesting thing is, when you ask people, they say, I want to have a region - now I'm going to have a clear mind, an example from Zagorje. And then you ask why, you find that there's already an argument at the headquarters of the regions, but it's quite simple from the traditional Slovenian custom, which is called "fossiers", only that I'll be better than the others. The real reason why someone would want to have a seat in the region somewhere is because very few people know if they know how to say it. So they'll be here and trouble will begin. You are well aware that my fellow Member, Saša Peca, has already said that in the recasting of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, we have stressed that because of our poor experience we want, want and insist that, if already, the regions should be a constitutional category. Why? Because by this you embody some arrangement that you have prepared, that you are confident of, and you do not allow political and other speculations. In order for this to happen, I must attach here the words of the previous speaker - when political power changes, the desire for a larger or smaller number of local communities changes. However, as local communities are formally in the same position as the regions will be, the same will be done with the regions. And let's all be aware of that together. Some will want their own region, others will want to join in, and they won't want to. And so on. And then we will fall back into that process of referendums, demands for referendums, and so on, and so on, eventually there will be confusion, so that, I don't know, Bled would like to be in the region with the Murko Sobota; otherwise I'm caricating, but this could happen, there have been a lot of such cases in other areas. It is right if the decision is to go into decentralisation of power and if this decision is justified and if the two-thirds majority is to do something about it. But at the same time, I would point out that we would not be too quick to be as experienced as we have heard, but elsewhere in the Czech Republic, that we would not then be victims of ourselves. There's another interesting question. If we are already dividing into regions, what it is forming now, a double question whether the content of the law, the content of all the laws will condition the number of regions, or vice versa, or whether the number of regions will condition the content. This is a very important question, and I really can't find the answer to it right now. Of course, there is a question of a single and two-track system. If I had to say what I'd decide, I'd decide for myself a single system that you're defending. Although we now see that it appears on the other side of the service requires a double-tier system. I hear from the discussions that I have heard today that compromises are already being sought, that the two-tier system will be temporary. No one today knows the real fate of the administrative units that exist. No one today knows what the status of the local community will be, not least because I am, I hope that others will ever again be mayors instead of me, what will be the fate, what will be the status, what will be the rights and obligations of the mayors, what will be the rights and obligations of the one who will be at the head of the region. Last but not least, we have a so-called Senate or a second home in our legal order, this is the State Council. And I think it's very important regionalisation, representation at some state level, and where and in what way and how. Just the form and content of the State Council today is neither dick nor mouse. However, the local community is still somehow represented in the State Council through its interest communities, among others. I don't understand how this story is going to go on. A million open questions not to say that we wouldn't go beyond the work that talks about financing, where I'd like to believe, but I'm actually assessing that costs are going to be huge. You know, time is money, and time will be longer in the implementation of regionalisation to solve matters, I am sure of that. Time is money, and it will cost a lot more in this country. It is very difficult for me to imagine that on Day X, at the turn of 14 regions, if I speak of your law, that that moment every minister will be willing to say, but now, I will say to myself, 400 people from today, let's say that 300 are in service in Ljubljana at the Ministry, and now 400 people from this ministry from now on in five different regions. It is very difficult to believe that this will be feasible, which means that many will remain in the ministries. I don't mind young people hiring too, and these will be the extra jobs that will be paid with tax money. And if that's enough, I don't mind. But he won't. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, your efforts have been made, I believe, but once again, I repeat, it is time for us to step back one step and then three steps forward. I estimate it's the most beautiful thing it is. It's my personal opinion, my personal opinion. However, if regionalisation goes forward, indeed, indeed, take it up, consider the next treatment, be so smart and somehow try to include it, there must be a requirement to include this part that we are still waiting for, at least in the constitutional category. If not, you can see for yourself how difficult it is to start regionalisation, how difficult it is to design, how difficult it is to intertwine this network structure. And when people do, and they'll start inventing new landscapes because they have this right, and they'll have the right to stand up, move or form a new referendum. That's because they don't have a constitutional category. The CP would be a constitutional category, and we cannot just change the constitution and we would not stay on a number if we were to go and stay there and act and live like that. I have expressed my opinion, and I am also pleased that we have engaged in these laws and regionalisation with a discussion, with an exchange of views, except for some of today's political Flossules or those political speculations, when everything that man says is just because he thinks politically differently, there has been a lot less and I hope they will not be. This cannot and cannot be a political content for now, this is the life of this beautiful Slovenia and this is the organization of our lives. Do not complicate it, let us be and remain a simple beautiful Slovenia one big region, which, despite its spatial smallness, is very large in a large other country, to which we must not forget because we wanted it, which is in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. But to my word I call on Ambassador Rudolph Mojet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team, a colleague and a colleague a very nice greeting! It must be said that today is a solemn moment in the National Assembly, because Members of this call have the duty and also the opportunity to decide on the last major country-specific topic in the Republic of Slovenia. 17 years with some Members, including Miran, who is watching me, sharing these benches, writing the country's birth certificate, setting up all the legislation of this country, we had programmes that brought us into the European Union, we had programmes that brought us to NATO, so we are now living in peace and success. And this is the last big walnut we break and you, Mr Minister, if you break it to the end, it will be an impulse that you were the minister who cut the Gordy knot when adopting this legislation. I think that we are all aware and no longer have our country's full powers, and there is the flag of the European Union. And part of the conduct carried out by this Parliament must be in line with the conduct of the European Union or with the regulations adopted in the Union. This is also the case with this package of legislation. Long ago, when I was the Vice-President of the Assembly of Maribor and was then the President of the Assembly of Magdalena Tovornik, she had always spoken and put Slovenia in a space between the European regions, not among the European countries. He said that once we are united in this community of European countries, that the main policy or the main approach to this joint stay will be given to the regions and that it will be more Europe of the regions than Europe of the countries. This is seen in other neighbours around us and everywhere, depending on how they work, how they connect and how European funds benefit. I have always imagined that when we go to this chapter, we will do things that are comparable to our neighbors who surround us, either west, east or north. But unfortunately, I must say that this thing that we are doing right now does not point in this direction. It's not our own fault, but it's our natural growth. It's the number of people we have. With 2 million people as far as we are in this territory, we can limit ourselves. But if we are so limited, then we get so few of these units that with this small number, then one would say that it's almost the same as having one at the beginning and one at the end -- I'll try to develop this thought a little bit. Look, in the second section of the territorial units, the Austrians have countries. In Italy, they have regions, and these are large, they meet these standards that the average country is about 800,000. Isn't it, Mr. Minister, if it's the average of the state? If Slovenia were to try to share it, and this division is important for the acquisition of funds and also for the administrative placement, then it could have only two countries under European Union standards in Slovenia. What would that accomplish now that we have now I believe in legislation, if I exaggerate a little bit, just one thing, this thing probably wouldn't change much. It is said that at the second level we would have a maximum of two provinces and at the third level then, if I were to compare, about 12 to 13 districts. So we have dropped this second level, we have cohesion regions that will help us draw funds, and at the third level, we are only setting up these provinces. And for these, there's got to be an average of about 150,000. And look, Mr. Minister, since we met in a lot of math hours, if you take that we have two million people, then every province within this third division can have less than 150, but the average of all must be 150 or more. And if we were to calculate 2 million and divide by 13, we would get the average to have Slovenia if we set up 13, 153,846 people in such a province. But if we take 14 of them, then we get 148,285, so we fall under that criterion. And you know as well as I do at Eurostat that we will not have to change the basic regulations because of us, to be a special exception and to exceed this threshold, because this would be an example in the European Union, so that all other countries can go along this path, and then we will have a dense network in the European Union in the third division, which would probably not allow for any concrete development. Because we are united in this, then the Government, Mr Minister, probably you have prepared these things, this old regulation, what I know, which year Slovenia was divided into two cohesion regions and 12 statistical units, is your Government, and you have done so, by Regulation No 105/2007, that Slovenia is divided into two cohesion regions and within these cohesion regions is exactly what the provinces are. Because Slovenia, I say, is also congratulating you on the use of funds when we are no longer in a position like this, on this basis it issued a regulation on the standard classification of territorial units signed by Janez Janša. On the basis of this Regulation, it allows and must be that this Regulation, from Brussels at the first, second and third levels, is recognised as a division in the Republic of Slovenia, always at the fourth, fifth and sixth levels, we can now do these things ourselves. I think we should, Mr Minister, if we were to be a bit of a state-of-the-art, and if we were to try another Gordis knot in this legislation of yours to cut down on this legislation that you wrote and put it into consideration - but I will also do these things and try to change it with the amendment - that the laws would say that the number of regions in the Republic of Slovenia corresponds to this criterion that on average the number of inhabitants in the average region should not be less than 150,000 or something like that. And it would immediately be on what you were saying, you would immediately come to the upper limit of 13 provinces and not anymore. Mr. Minister, if you go to 14 provinces, then you've opened Pandora's box and then anyone with these arguments can go and every one of them will be in the 15th and the 16th and the 17th, until there are 68, as we once had in the congregation. We are, respected colleagues and colleagues, between the fabric and the anvil, between national and local interests. From where we were elected, they're hunting us to have almost every region of their own. But if we are looking at the state level, we will be the ones who will write birth certificates to these regions or to the provinces, but we should do these things in a way that would benefit this country. Not that we will make such a division to satisfy local February, but in the long term, with regard to influence and development, the entire area close to or far from Slovenia will begin to overtake us. And in this case, this is 21 in this legislation, and some say that it is necessary to agree first on the number of regions or to put in legislation such criteria as to prevent an enormous number of regions or landscapes. Because of this, colleagues and colleagues, a lot of them have debated in this regard, we have two trivial solutions if we go to the provinces. One solution is that the country is alone. That's what we got now. We've seen it's not a good system. Another trivial solution is that each congregation would be its own province. We know it's out of the question. In the meantime, this Scylla and the Caribbean, to find that model, to calculate it and to look at Slovenia's greatest development, and - I agree with you, Mr. Minister, that this is a political issue - at the same time, to tell people why it is good to limit this number of regions and to tell them why it is in the interest of Slovenia, but not in the interest of one small piece of this Republic. The more we have the provinces, the less these provinces will have jurisdiction. And as little as possible, they have fewer financial resources. And they have as little financial resources as possible, the less development there is. That is to say, if we go far across their numbers, then we will achieve this, instead of having these provinces as development vehicles to bring development, we will achieve some kind of reverse effect. So much for these divisions. I mean, Mr Minister, I am still predicting if it is possible that, in the second reading, I will try to bring these things into law in an amendment form, so that at least we can limit ourselves in law to the upper number of these provinces. In the meantime, write legislation, where nothing is said at all, but there are no limits, but I think, I'm sorry that in one direction this fog is going into space. On the other hand, I'd like to say two more things. I know we're all a little tired. There's one about the money and the financial picture. The monetary and financial picture, as I said before, depends very much on how many regions we will have, what powers we will have. For with the responsibilities that they will have, financial resources will also flow, and their power will flow. And that's why, I hope by the third hearing, but that's, you know, the minister, back to one Gordy knot. If you have a defined number at the time, and you will be behind this number here in this National Assembly, then you will have to have a precise financial picture so that everyone will know what he gets, if he goes to the polls, that he will know about what he is waiting for, and what powers he will have. And on the other hand, we're going to have to take a little look at the employees. If you from the state apparatus, where it is about, now I will say very roundly, a state apparatus under the command of Prime Minister Janez Janša, about 34 thousand people, if you bring authority from one particular province, then colleagues, if you do not want to have an extra apparatus, with the powers of a certain number of people must go to the province. This means that some who now live here will have to drive to Kranj, Novo mesto, Gornja Radgono, Maribor, as they are now driving from other such places to Ljubljana if they want to keep jobs. But if they don't, if they refuse you, we know what that means, they'll go on hold for a while. They'll get other jobs. As far as employees are concerned, there is another big nut that when you get around to the second reading and the explanation, I would ask you nicely if you could say roughly, but for this region we assume, you can say very round, so much and so, so much will go from this state administration to the provincial administration. And if we have these numbers in front of us, then we'll make it even more inappropriately, because if you have one thing quantified, then you can quickly see whether such a solution is also quality or not quality. And the third thing that seems important to me, but it's our thing, it's a political thing. Some customers are written on the skin to have as many small regions as possible, as many such provinces as possible, with a particular type of population within them, because they are their potential voters. And on many occasions it seemed to me that I was not wrong to think that some municipalities had been created according to the will of certain political options, then they had their mayor there. Even when the number of these provinces is determined, this will also determine to one extent the election outcome of these provincial elections. And if in Europe, if you remember, it is precisely these provincial elections that still have a bearing on the state elections. If a party in one province loses and in another, and in the third, and in the fourth, and in the fifth, it is not a miracle to achieve some great success in the national elections. And even through this optics, but this, Mr Minister, you will not be watching, of course we will also see what such a distribution brings to individual political options. I, my dear colleagues, apologize if I have been a bit of a debt, and I wish you a happy way to bring this thing to an end and then to bring about a really good development in Slovenia. Not if I'm going to meet in 15 or 20 years, I'm going to say, when we were sitting in the National Assembly, we were going to discuss this, for God's sake, what a mistake this National Assembly has made, and we didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The Minister has signed up for this. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. However, I would also explain some things with regard to this last implementation, and two more before that. A happy path is our common happy path in this project, only in this case will this project be successful. And not just us sitting here or you sitting here, but us on the government side, but also all citizens and citizens and all political actors on the political scene also from the local environment, it is also extremely important. Now that these decision-making processes are under way in the preparation of their opinions, it is also necessary to appeal here that these opinions, which are formed in individual areas, should go into some sense of agreement. The provinces will probably be able to succeed or be much more successful in those environments, where some prestigious issues will also have an agreement before it is necessary to decide on the Government in the preparation of this law on division and later here when it is necessary to adopt it. If the solutions that come from the field are sufficiently uniform, then it will be significantly easier to prepare this law and significantly easier to contribute here. However, we are trying or will try to comply to the maximum with the will that will come from the municipalities, although it is very clear that the very essential difference between the previous constitutional arrangement and the present one is that the congregations were previously co-sponsored, but now they are the judge and will probably also have to decide in some cases in this assembly. Before that, questions were also raised regarding the financing and knowledge of this financial scope. If you have looked, unfortunately, the Member is not present, but if he has looked at the legislation, including this financial part, then this framework of the financial scope of the delegation of tasks is made down and means around 5% of the gross product, this is estimated at a good EUR 1.3 billion at the annual level. And this is what we want to carry down, of course, the combined tasks in this context and also the total jobs, which has already been exposed. When these parallels also occur with regard to this part of regional development that we have today or with which we are managing or managing today, it is necessary to say that at this moment, let us say in that part of the regional incentives that we are helping the local environment and, in particular, the municipalities today, because the municipalities are the only carriers through the mechanisms provided by the Harmonised Regional Development Act, this framework of tasks, as is now estimated, is about 10 times larger. Thus, it is a purely different dimension than in the case of only direct incentives. And it is true that, at this point in time, coherent regional development is being led through the opportunities offered by the Cohesion Regional Development Act. In this case, the mayors take over the function of that political body which, in this case, decides on the preparation or priority of projects. If we had the provinces at the moment, then, of course, these saints would not have decided on the regional work, but the province would have made decisions and probably not even needed a coherent regional development law, because that is actually the case. The main function of the provinces, the main task of the provinces is to drive and accelerate development through the investment work, and also through decision-making in various areas, including in the area of education, as regards guidance on active employment policy and so on, in those parts, of course, where these powers will be transferred down. Now, as far as this work is concerned; unfortunately, the Member is leaving us, but nevertheless, as far as this work, which is related to the statistical division that we use and is used by the European Union, is concerned, of course, by our provinces. Our landscapes or landscapes we establish are our project, and in fact they have nothing to do with statistics. This is a sovereign decision of an individual country. The statistical part, which is, of course, usually relates to this part, but until we enforce different statistical divisions of Slovenia before the European Commission, this division that we currently have will be valid for so long. So two cohesion regions. They will, in fact, enter into force in the following year, but will in practice apply to the next financial perspective and to 12 statistical development regions. However, if we are to establish landscapes with different borders, with a different number, then, of course, we will need to renegotiate these things with the European Commission. This too needs to be stressed that we cannot directly compare our arrangements with those of some other countries because some countries have been exposed in this case. Slovenia is also significantly different from other countries in its dimension. Of course, there are specifics, but at certain levels, where we can, we can also compare ourselves with other countries. Even with regard to this work, for example, the provinces are comparable to the departments in France or are comparable to the cantons in Denmark and are likely to be comparable in any other country with which level Switzerland is not an integral part, with the cantons in Switzerland that are working successfully. Thus, these comparisons can be established, or as far as our provinces are concerned, we have relied on the statistical basis for the provinces, what we are now using at the level of regional development, and this is also a function that will be taken over by future provinces. I agree here, I have to agree with the Member of Parliament, 800 000 is the average at NUTS level 2 and here we have two cohesion regions. We're not thinking of having two countries. In this case, political regulation, which I personally believe, and two countries with these fundamental additional contents would mean from the point of view of the development of Slovenia what we probably do not want, or only what we want to achieve. So development in just two very well-expressed centres. But we want most of the development with the provinces, so we decided, probably all together, so I also understood this discussion, which took place at the political level, because we also discussed the number of provinces, for comparability at the level of NUTS3 statistical regions. With regard to this work, I agree that this brings to us the good 13 statistical regions or the bad 14 regions, we can say, I agree with the good 13. However, we must also say that the European regulation nevertheless allows for exceptions. It is true that they are not present at this time, but it allows them under certain conditions. In particular, if we are to have political organisation at this level in this direction, then these exceptions may also be negotiated, otherwise there will be a need to decide on any and other divisions and it is not necessary for our statistical arrangements to be fully aligned. But of course it would be useful to match. I absolutely agree with that. This type of negotiation will be possible. It can be easier to achieve success at this level because the extent of the funds being made when we talk about European funds at this level is significantly lower than the extent of the funds being made at the level of cohesion regions. If we look at the case of Slovenia, then Slovenia is systematically operating at the NUTS3 level by means of cross-border cooperation and trans-regional links, which means around 100 million in this financial perspective. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. At the level of NUTS2 regions, this is at the level of cohesion and is currently being implemented with 4.1 billion funds. That is why negotiations are much more difficult or probably impossible to reach an exception. This was also a discussion when we discussed it. That is why, even through these discussions that have been going on, and also as far as this professional work is concerned, we have come up with this initial proposal. Personally, I would not oppose this if we could also manage through the feedback we will receive, even in the final drafting and adoption of the law to round the number of landscapes down with some. In this sense, we would have no problem with this substantive package of legislation because these things are covered. This content package of legislation also allows for the coverage of this medium space from 9 to 14. The other thing is if we go to that minimum or if we jump to 15. Since we wouldn't jump to 15, we agree, we'd jump right into the 25th or 30th future province. And here these limits must remain, but once again I must say that throughout all the discussions that have taken place, it seems that the political most real at this moment is 14 statistical and development regions. I hope that during this time demographics will improve so much in Slovenia that we will then reach this level of average of 150,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. But to my word I call on Ambassador Mit Slavinc. [[He's not here.]] Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, there has been a long debate about the provinces. And what can I say for myself? No doubt I feel better about any country than bad. I am pleased with the findings and discussions, something I have been following for about a month and a half in the media, if we vote today, the provinces, as they are set up, do not get two thirds. This is undoubtedly a fact that if all those we talk about think honestly and no doubt that would be our task. I was very surprised because many times we say that the provinces are mainly political but not professional or developmental projects. That I had thus convinced myself at one of the last meetings of the municipal council at our home in Gorenjska, when one of the options we were considering was also the possibility of the upper Gorenjska region. Someone answered and said, "Listen to them, but look at the political options of the mayor of so-called Upper Gorenjska." And when I saw that debate and thought, it was clear to me that we were kicking completely into the darkness. I would like strong provinces to be an equal interlocutor to those of the provinces we have as neighbours. Last week we debated here in Ljubljana in Parliament with one of the Korean country councillors and he said, "Listen, said the mayor, Koroška has over 500,000 inhabitants there. On the other hand, you have Furlanija-Julija Krajina, which also has an appropriate number of people, not to talk about Istrian County." And I myself see in these provinces a story of development, a kind of unity, where we can agree on it in a valuable, understandable and rational way. That is why I will support the option of six to eight provinces in Slovenia, otherwise, and by autumn, regardless of any party, political or any combination, I will not change my mind, unless we drive Slovenia into another crazy extreme, which Mr. Minister has already mentioned, that instead of 6, 8 provinces after 25 provinces, these provinces will be political, for people, for our taxpayers and taxpayers, and very, very expensive. The essence of the landscapes is to be development and decentralisation. However, if we are talking about a single and strong Gorenjska and if we are all walking from this united and strong Gorenjska - those who also now have our administrative units - to regulate the essential administrative matters in Kranj, as the center of Gorenjska, then of course we have not done decentralisation, but we have done centralisation. As the mayor of the municipality of Tržič, who has 15,500 inhabitants, I wish to continue to manage these basic administrative units at home in Tržič, but those key things that we have to deal with as mayors among ourselves and to do in the centre of Kranj for the whole of Gorenjska. I am pleased to hear at the meeting of the municipal council that the coalition Members will support decentralisation, such as the possibility that the centre of the future province will become, say, the Market. I am happy to do so, and as an opposition Member, I am happy to support this if only voices are provided elsewhere. And that's what we want. That those congregations, which are not the main ones in this cake, are leading us to get something out of this story of decentralisation for our cities. Not that if the center of the single Gorenjska Kranj is, that does not mean that all the services in Kranj must be, but that some service dealing with an economic branch can be dispersed with some energy in any of the 18 municipalities of Goran. And here I see a goal and a challenge. I am also concerned about what I heard in our congregation’s burnout on Wednesday that it is assumed for every province, and I will be happy if the minister denies me today that every provincial administration should have between 400 and 500 employees. One of the more important people of this coalition today has been vehemently asserting this at a meeting of the municipal council two days ago in Tržič. But if the story is so crazy, then of course, on this train of madness, I won't be around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. And I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I will perhaps, on the other hand, perhaps in spite of everything a little more optimistic about regionalisation, give one of my views. I would stress that I see the introduction of the province's development challenge and the opportunity for the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that the State's influence is still very strong, particularly in financial terms. And every change we make, we've been beating each other up by nature. Although it is also true that part of this centralisation, which we have in Slovenia, has softened since 1995 with a relatively large number of municipalities. Unfortunately, however, the level of the social product available at the local level, at the level of the municipalities, is far too small, although the reform of the Community Financing Act has changed considerably over the last two, three years. It is my opinion that, through the transfer of tasks, the powers from the country to the province must also be transferred to the country by an appropriate part of the social product, which will be available at the level of the province. I am also convinced that the efficiency or efficiency of spending resources will be better than for the same money if these matters are coordinated from the centre or from Ljubljana. A similar effect was reached when new congregations formed. I think that this was a strong development situation created by formation, for the first time, about 150 municipalities, and then in the next stages we came to over 200 municipalities. I think that funds at the level of the municipalities are being used more rationally, more money is being achieved for the same money, and at the same time control through municipal councils is closer, and perhaps these funds can also be used more correctly. Secondly, through the electoral system, it is necessary to ensure equal representation of all parts of the province in the province's world, particularly in order to avoid, let's just say, regional centralism. This regional centralism may be a certain danger. I believe that this introduction of the so-called reference voice is also necessary and needs to be put in such a way that in a proportional electoral system there is also a possibility of emancipation in smaller and more remote environments. Probably by setting certain limits, certain criteria to do. I see important corrections in the regional council, which will be composed of mayors of municipalities, who will be able to give opinions, recommendations and, as far as is clear from the legislation, may also require a re-decision on a subject. It also seems very important to me that, in advance, it is known that municipalities will not be deprived of their powers, not least so that, in fact, the municipalities will accept regionalisation and that the opposition of the municipalities would not actually cause much damage to the establishment of the regions. Today's debate talked a lot about the smallness of municipalities, about the smallness of Slovenia, about the smallness of regions. I'd say things are relative. Slovenia is small and usually a small country must have some structures comparable. In fact, we cannot do so in a small country in large regions if we know that some countries are just so large that Slovenia is small compared to some regions. However, things are relative. Even if you look at Austria's Štajersko with about a million people, and when we always talk about how we have small municipalities in Slovenia, Austria's Štajerska near thousands of municipalities, if I am properly informed. Nevertheless, somehow we cannot say that Austria or Austria’s Styria is developing poorly. I think that the number 14 that appears on the air is actually a political figure that has been compromised, with some political lobbying, it has come to it. Since 1990, I have been in local politics and, in fact, this number, which is on the air from the front, I do not know, has already been discussed strongly before 2000. And it's interesting when you look at the political options that advocate this number. Coalitions are very different. Perhaps these coalitions can even make a good journey to the good work of these regions. Not only is there a political option that advocates 14 provinces, but the political space that advocates this is relatively broad. A few words more about self-financing of the provinces. I'd say next. I believe that there is no country in the world that does not have adjustments for partial compensation for different developmental backlogs. I would also say that the developmental advantages of municipalities or regions are many times or mainly due to some past facts. It used to be a southern railway, sometimes it was different traffic crossings, sometimes it was raw materials, mines, and so on. Today it's banks, bank headquarters, insurance headquarters, today it's institutes, universities, not least clinical centers. And of course, the province that has all of this is much richer than the one that doesn't have it. And there's a lot more money flowing in such a province, and I think it's also fair and moral on the part of the state that it partially redirects these funds through some of the mechanisms into those parts that don't have it. Somehow a person feels, a rhetorical question, whether we are so incompetent in Podčetrtek, because we do not have these institutions - this is just a rhetorical question - or whether it is right for some mechanisms to get into such a landscape, I am not saying equalization, but the possibilities of normal functioning. I'd end up like this. Our regions won't be big. I also agree that they must not be held in a global way, of course if the purpose is sincere or whether we are strong enough as a policy to transform the skeleton state administration into a tight, elastic regional administration that will be in the service of citizens and citizens. I think that is before us the question of whether we are going to be able to bring state bureaucracy down and convince it that it will partially move to a regional level. I would also say that, in fact, from the debate, I see that a large number of Members, or some part, are not in favour of change. It's much more comfortable to live in a used environment, and I think the state administration, the state bureaucracy, if I may say so. I think it is the task of the policy, the National Assembly, to make a movement here, because any change may also be the engine of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we had not only a thorough debate but also a wide variety of views on the specific issues and solutions proposed in the laws that have been drawn up and we can also agree that we can honestly say them. Not to interfere in any way with the adoption of the laws on landscapes that we have been advocating for 15 years, but to warn us that there are still many questions, in our belief, that we do not have a complete answer. I'm not gonna say it's easy to give, but they don't. We firmly believe that, simply put, the political class in Slovenia, the so-called Members, the structure near us, the municipalities, mayors, saints and the like, those who also work in some public services, absolutely think that provincial legislation is essential. Or is that what citizens and citizens think in their entirety, and I think there must be more. Why does the political class think that legislation should be adopted as soon as possible? Because he expects some things to be justified, some may also be unjustifiable. He expects the laws to be decentralised. I would believe that would happen. It expects significantly different development and faster development of regions, landscapes, areas in Slovenia that are lagging behind in development. Yeah, maybe. But if that happens, it'll go against the development of someone else. They're expecting more jurisdiction. Yes, there will be more powers, with more powers, probably more resources. And more influence and here on these three points is the question of the seat, who will have more powers, who will have more influence, who will have more resources, because municipalities, areas where no headquarters is envisaged or no province is envisaged, fear that the new centre of the province will hold it more for itself than would have been desirable and vice versa. The centre that acquires this mainly fights for the province and for the seat and for the centre because it counts that the volume of funds, influence, policy, even personnel will be the most concentrated there. And in this part, I fear that the answers are not given, that expectations are different and often unrealistic, and that there can also be considerable disappointment when legislation is adopted. On this basis, how can it be believed that financial neutrality can be ensured? Yes, it can be believed that if we count it or assume that it is now in the ministries of competence funded through a certain amount of funds, and that this same amount of resources will be transferred to the level of the landscapes, together with the people who have so far exercised these powers in the ministries. Then it's financially neutral. Just what's going to happen at this point in the provinces, no one knows. Because that would be financially neutral if the mass could be transferred. However, since it will move to 12, 14, 6, 8, I hope that more than 14 really do not, but less landscapes, then there is already a big question, even in the light of the funding system, how this will be implemented directly. Whether it will be realized that everyone will not simply get the necessary resources, or whether it will be realized that whoever has the worst position will get the necessary resources, then probably the total mass will be greater, or whether it will be realized that the best one will otherwise get something less so that those who are on average can get enough. And those are the questions. Don't say they're made up. There are questions when we look at what the funding system is like. 25% of corporate income tax, but with two criteria: not more than 150 and not less than the average. I understand, I mean, I truly understand, because if we don't say any of this, then of course we can't talk about wanting to accelerate the development of those who need it most. What's the result of that, I don't know. This result can also mean that someone will not be able to develop, but who has so far had all the conditions for development. What is happening in this regard? The different future seats of the provinces, the different provinces, will have different positions for the visas of many of the tasks they have to perform. The largest provinces will have many tasks in the areas of education, health, culture, social protection, housing, protection, rescue and similar institutions. Law proposals say that administrative tasks will be delegated, not institution funding. These institutions are also financed through the country, through laws with a certain form of subsidy, direct wage financing, social transfers and the like. But the results, at least to me, are different if you look at them across the entire system of the country, as if you're looking at them separately in different regions. The question of some fundamental relations between the situation of the provinces and those on the outskirts is, say, Ljubljana. According to the information I know and have been served with them, I would personally think that Ljubljana would be in a worse position if I wanted to remain as a city as a province, rather than as a proposal as it is. I hope it's true, but that's what some of the data shows. Just regardless of how the data is viewed, let's say about the issue of income, which is the next 20% source of financing for the provinces. There are 250 thousand jobs in Ljubljana, 205,000 are occupied by Ljubljanans, called people who have permanent residence in Ljubljana. The rest is labour migration, which is, of course, a huge day migration of students, students and the like. This migration is such that, for example, in Ljubljana, more than 30% of working people from Kamnik, Logatca, Lukovice, Moravč, Commande, Šmartno pri Litia, more than 40% from the municipalities of Horjul, Domžale, Mengeš, Dobrepolje, Ivančna Gorica, Litija, Vrhnika, more than 50% Borovnica, Medvode, Grosuplje, Vodice, Trzin, Velika Lašče, and even more than 70% of active people from the municipalities of Polhov Gradec, Brezovica, Dol pri Ljubljani, Ig, Škofljica. 70% of these municipalities drive to Ljubljana, and they work in Ljubljana, which is probably the result of costs, transportation, parking spaces, air pollution and the like, and they pay income in the municipality where they live. And this is where a certain disproportionateity arises. I would therefore like to say that I think that among the many issues that arise in the implementation of this law, the issue of financing is also one of the fundamental issues that will need to be clarified. We have not received sufficient exact data from the Ministry, what the prepared proposals mean for implementation for each individual province, not in the mass, for each individual province. When we get that, then we can say what the result will be, and we may be satisfied. Until we get this, it's hard to talk about whether and what the results will be. I hope we win, because this is our request and our condition. And I hope that the reason that we have not received this so far is not that the Government would not want or could have prepared this, but above all that there is no reason for the result to be such that they do not want to show it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I invite Member Mitja Ljubeljska to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear congregation, good bye to you all! We are probably all quite tired of the week-long discussions, and that is also the case today. It's been a long time since I didn't even say everything that's been said, so it's hard to add anything else. Still, I'd like to give you some of my thoughts. We have before us the proposals of three provincial laws, which by majority belief represent a new milestone in the upgrading of local self-government. Initially, I'd like to draw a parallel from the near past. I recall 1993 and 1994, when local legislation was adopted, which then continued to establish municipalities, definitions [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , financing, etc. [[...]] And at the time they appeared, I followed it as a citizen, similar, I will say skepticism, criticism, optimism, pessimism, if anything is necessary to crush Slovenia, municipalities, they will not know what to do with themselves, small congregations will fail, etc. Let us now see what has happened in these congregations. The people were given authority from the state, received the congregations to manage, realized what they needed, and what they wanted, and some, or most, of the congregations, flourished in the wise administration and direction. From this positive experience, it also does not take a look at the preparation procedures, the establishment of these municipalities, the landscapes, the design of substantive solutions, the provincial laws. And I note, both in public media statements and also, I would say, from some of today's debates, that there is a similar criticism, some opportunism, optimism, pessimism, indecisiveness, whether it is necessary or necessary. Some provinces will be too small, this will be an additional burden for the country, there will be increased bureaucracy, here is interest for chairs in these provincial authorities, etc. I know that there have been, and will be, any new project, opportunists, critics, optimists and pessimists, experts and quasi experts, and I do not take this as negative. The positive criticism supported by the arguments is very positive because it is focused on re-thinking, in criticism itself, in finding new additions and solutions. And I hope and I know that this will also be the case in these procedures. This project, the landscape project, we all know, and we probably all agree with it, is of national importance, supported by the complementary constitutional provisions that we adopted in this National Assembly before a bad year. That is why I know and believe that there is no coalition or opposition here, but that it guides us, that we are all looking together, I would say, for the best possible rational and effective solutions. The fundamental objective of decentralising functions and competences from the country's central to the provinces is that I see above all in this and also when I follow and comment, I would say, "There are three basic guides." [[...]] First time. To make this landscape system as effective as possible, especially from this developmental point of view; here there must be an emphasis on the development component and that it is as rational as possible, as rational as possible, that it does not burden the state budget and taxpayers, that there is no increase in the number of employees, and I believe here that it will be rational and I am sure that the correct project will be carried out so that rationalisations and savings will also be carried out here. Third time. That services are as close to users as possible, that is to citizens. This is the lead and the fourth, which I stress in particular, and I stress in particular, and I think it is crucial that when the day of x transfer of functions comes, that the system also works on that day, that there is no blockade, that there is any confusion, and that seems crucial to me. In fact, it is necessary to prepare well, to study well, not to give in to any experimentation, or even solutions, will be. Therefore, the transitional provisions in the draft law are still important for the procedures and activities of the establishment of the landscapes of the acquisition of public servants, the acquisition of premises for the operation of the landscape and equipment, as well as for temporary financing. And here I see this transitional period from 31 December 2007 to 1 January 2009, a real deadline in which matters can also be achieved in a truly quality and efficient manner. So here you really need a common sense, not to bump into and get well prepared on the day or days of x. And here I see the extremely wise decision of the Government, which has appointed a government interdepartmental commission, which has the task of preparing sectoral legislation and, as I know, I have information in full progress concerning the transfer of jurisdiction to the provinces. And I'm sure this part will be very well prepared as well. I would like to say a few more of my views and views, in the midst of what I think to be such, I do not go into the content of the bill proposals, and I think that in the second reading, there will be a more in-depth debate on individual provisions. As far as financing is concerned, I believe that good criteria are laid down in the bill, especially I welcome the addition of the province's development index, which will also be able to coordinate and support less developed regions, which, due to their historical or natural character, are also significantly behind the average of Slovenia's development, not to say or compare this with the central Ljubljana or Slovenian region. I don't even know the subject here, and I don't go into it, here I expect the mayors to be constructive in this, because they know the current funding and where those key things are. I am confident that these criteria will also be met and harmonised and that a consensus will also be reached here. What bothers me is what I heard, also proposals - I also saw this in the media, that some were laying down conditions for the adoption at the same time of all four laws, the creation law. I don't think that's wise, because the content of the first three laws, the ones we have today in the general debate, is not conditioned by the number of provinces. It must be taken into account in substance that the provinces will be different in size with certain specifics and that the content of these three laws must somehow cover, but this does not relate to the number of provinces. Why not? If we had this fourth draft of the creation law today, then today's debate, which is already going on, I'm talking about the number, we'd only talk about it and then there would be negotiations, because if it wasn't for my country, I won't support that law. So we have to make a substantive point, these are the three laws that are on the table, and then we're going to talk about the number of landscapes. Here I think it would be blackmailing, "overthinking," lobbying and so on. Let's make a proper deal, I'd say professionally, substantively, about these three laws and really try to "do" them as much as possible. The next thing that bothers me, and I'm going to get a little bit involved in this debate, is "14 landscapes yes or no?" Most of the time, I think, too, that it would be better if there were fewer of these areas. I won't say whether it's 6 or 8 or 10, but there's a ceiling set up, a ceiling of 14, no more than 14, and in further discussions, when there will also be feedback from the municipalities to reach some consensus to reduce the number. Nevertheless, I wonder why not leave people in some environment if they want to have a landscape to see here some of their developmental interests, so that they do not have a landscape and I would like to see those heroes, but now politically I am speaking, for example, a fellow Member of the Lachovnik, when I read some of his long interview in the media, saying that it is necessary to have economic logic in determining the number of landscapes. I agree that economic logic is needed, but nevertheless, we are just politicians, we are also political decision-makers, and it is difficult for citizens to explain this - economic logic. And I would ask my colleague Lahovnik to go to his constituency, in, say, Velenje, I think he's from Velenje and he says, "You know, the economic logic is that there can't be this Savinj-Salak region here, so you'll be looking for your services just in Celje." You know, it's like that. Economic logic is as possible as permissible. It is difficult to say to the Zasavski region, there is "Listen, you are too small" ; they are really small, I agree, three municipalities; "But you are too small and you will join the Zasavska region and you will go to Krška." It's hard to say to the Koro region: 'Listen'; because we have to reduce it, we have to get to 8, [[...]] [[background advertising]] No, most say that the 8 is the right one, and I now list them from the back; say to Korosci "Listen, you will not have a region and you will look for your needs..."; probably then you will tange on Celje. [[...]] You know, here's the economic policy logic. This is said to be economic thinking, but as much as is permissible and I think we have had in the near past also from famous theoretical economists, I also call them theoretical economic reformers who quickly gave up because the matter could not be carried out. And here we must be wise and try to realize what is possible at that moment. On the one hand, it is true to take into account economic logic and, on the other hand, to take into account people’s wishes and needs and to take account of consensus. Here we need to reach a two-thirds consensus when we talk about the law that will determine this. Because the government and the public administration, I also came up with this experience as an economist, so you can't really check with the economy of some company. Public administration, public administration has no income, does not create it on the market. Works for the needs of citizens paid from the state budget are burdened by the state budget. Here it is necessary to take an economic view, to see that this state administration must be as rational as possible and work with as little cost as possible. Here's the economy. That I will not be too long, because I am too long already, but I am sure that the concept that we have on the table says that these three proposals of the provincial laws are good, that they are a good basis for further consideration and that, in some majority agreement and constructive cooperation, we will try to make substantive improvements together with the amendments. That is why I will also support the conclusion that they will go into further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u66	Nice greetings to everyone in this hall! The most interesting thing so far was the last debate when my colleague started to debate was that everything had already been said that there would be not enough to say, but he spoke for more than 17 minutes. Time is running fast. I promise I won't be that long because I don't want to really repeat it, and I know that colleague Eva Irgle is in a hurry and it's a shame to miss the obligation she's waiting for. Slovenia is really a beautiful country, as we have already heard today, which has made a very good development in recent years. And when we look at individual areas of Slovenia, we can really see that not all areas develop in the same way. One faster the other province a little slower. Most realisticly, though, when we look at what congregations are doing, how they work, what development they have done, and we can quickly see that most of the congregations are taking big steps, they are rapidly evolving, and much depends on what kind of people they have in certain positions and positions. As a result, some are more successful than others. And the main purpose of the introduction of the provinces is to be a more coherent regional development. I would agree with this, I agree that it would be right for all of us to develop more evenly. However, I must say that I actually see the matter in this direction alone, or that we are going to give a lot more to some of the provinces now, or we are going to give a little bit more to others. Otherwise, I cannot imagine that in some administrative way we would try to achieve faster development of the areas currently lagging behind. The second thing I want to say is that I am sure that these three laws that we are considering today are being dealt with too quickly, not because we are dealing with them today, but I think it would be good that we have something else to do with this fourth to make it more clear. Because I'm afraid that we're going to waste so much time and so much energy, and then maybe the last thing that's said before is going to happen is that it's going to fall into the water. It seems to me that with regard to the introduction of the provinces, the main question is, "What do we get, how much money do we get?" I think that's the main question. If this takes a lot of additional resources and development that we would like to achieve, it will not return, then we are not doing anything positive. Our demand has been that, by introducing the landscapes, there should be no higher public financial expenditure, a substantial increase in public financial expenditure or a substantial increase in public bureaucracy. But any way that man turns it around, I don't think there's anything that's important that can't be implemented without an increase. Well, if we say as many as 14, as is now said, if we have to provide in 14 areas so many and so many square metres of business space that there will be so many and so many provincial officials there, that the provincial councils will meet to have meetings for this, that we will have a provincial head and so on so that all these funds can be obtained or obtained only by reducing the money of the ministries so much. I personally agree with this completely, but I'm concerned that this is absolutely impossible. But I'm going to be on my own all the time to make this happen. It is said that funds are taken where these tasks are now being carried out, that these employees are being redeployed, and that we are trying to achieve this rational introduction of the provinces somewhere. But if that's not possible, then I don't think it makes sense for us to go into this landscape project. Let me touch on the introduction of administrative thefts, which has been a bit of a talk lately. I think that the matter here is somewhat related to the fact that this is a court-martial sword by the introduction of administrative thefts, because I agree that there is still some rationalisation in the current state administration. It is also possible to rationalise certain things by regulation of landscapes, but we must by no means allow the services to be distanced from the citizens. I'm in favor of rationalization, but I'm not in favor of moving services. And if I went back to the provinces, it would seem really important to me today that I could already say quite clearly and firmly, both the area and the seats and that it was perfectly clear, all the powers and all the tasks that would be given to the provinces. I think things are still pretty vague here. Finally, I must use the presence of Mr Minister: if we introduce 14 provinces, then I inform you that the municipality of Šostanj already offers you business space, because we have many empty spaces in the municipality building.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next panellist shall be the MEP. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Since I was late, I could not put forward the position of the Group of Members, so I will take this very briefly, and what I will say about these three laws is mainly the view or position of all of us, the four Members. We support regionalisation and decentralisation of the country. The second level is seen as what is needed in terms of the inflationary amount of municipalities which are difficult and under-performing for projects that are suitable for the region, for the country is too small and for individual municipalities. That's why we need this middle level. And we are not pretending to achieve this in order to reach that level of local self-government that could better and faster plan development for a particular province or area. We do not have any illusion in this respect in order to achieve a balanced development of all regions through regionalisation. It is simply not possible to create a level playing field for the same rapid development, and this could not be done. If we just ask ourselves what it looked like in the former common country because of an experiment or, I would say, a declarative thinking in the sense that the republics should develop evenly, only from Slovenia would devote a disproportionate amount of money to the Federation, which was often not spent either on equitable development or even less effectively to achieve the purpose declared. And the same could happen at the level of development of individual landscapes. However, the landscapes are important to the fact that in an environment that is different - depending on our areas - it designs and realizes the ambition that the other province does not have. For example, probably in Gorenjska, in the environment of Jesenic and so on, there is no agriculture there, it is pointless to have a secondary agricultural school. The second song is in Pomure, Podrav, Dolenjska and so on. Even if we get a college in Styria, there'll be interest in another, high or high school, like somewhere else. Not to mention universities that might slip into the provinces if there weren't too many. And now we are in this unfortunate number, for us four Members is the 14th province's last number, which we are ready to support when it comes to rising. However, we will be open to supporting any agreement that is broad enough to reduce. For it is not possible to talk about more equitable development and about equal weight, impact and, of course, the prosperity of the provinces in which the number of inhabitants is one to ten, we think that this is too terrible a thing. I agree with Mr Ljubeljski that it is necessary to listen to people who think about having their own country, because they will know much more quickly in that environment, to agree much better on what is best for this area, and then without stopping those who are less interested and who are already a little too far away, to agree more easily on what is best for this area. But of course, the same thinking was also present when we increased the number of congregations. I just have to point out that we don't see the analogy. In the event of an increase in the number of congregations, these were successful, not only because they were smaller and could manage better than in the former larger ones, but because all the years when we increased the total amount of money we allocated to the congregations had increased. Last term, tops. That's why I don't think analogy holds up the criticism. But we are aware that it will be more expensive. It will also be more costly to move all the workers currently in the ministries into the region with the responsibility. In this case, too, it will be more expensive because it will need premises, offices, ficussions, secretaries, leadership, the provincial council with operating costs and so on. There will be and here is an illusion for me to think about at the same level of spending of resources for the functioning of the country as such. And we take this risk in this segment as a parallel collateral damage to the establishment of landscapes, which, by better organisation of development for individual areas over the next few years, is expected to reimburse this increased cost for the operations of the provinces alone. I certainly think it's possible to see the return on this money if things are going to be more effective at the level of individual landscapes. As far as funding is concerned, I would like to say that we will be able to find the best possible solution to the one already proposed. We are afraid that maybe this first scale of resources envisaged to move from country to country may be too small. That a lot of this will burn in the organization, in the cost of functioning the province and so on. Surely we do not expect the landscapes of a better functioning of the state administration than they do. We already have state administration in the field, these are administrative units and they work well and people get passports, traffic permits, building permits and so on. And that's what we got there. Even if we moved this into a single system to the provinces, the exposures could remain where they are, and nothing would get worse in this regard, and we also expect that the introduction of the landscapes will not make the accessibility of people, citizens, citizens to these services worse. But for us, for sure, the introduction of landscapes is important through the rapid development of specific areas in terms of economic progress in all areas, as well as in the field of social activities. To put it this way: Why should the country be plagued with a small regional hospital or with a library for a region or with a pensioner's home? Why should the director of a pensioner's home wait for an agreement from the Ministry, for that annual award decided by the board of the institution, and for one year, for example, for four months, our home in Trebnje could not be obtained from the state level. Why don't we take a look at it in New Town and say yes or no? We did not expect an absolute positive response, but we expected it and we did not get it, and then the world said, "We consider the silence of the authorities as consent, we have paid off, the Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion." But the ministry is nothing, so far nothing. By the way, I would like to say this as an example of why we think that instead of using the ministries of visa via municipalities, certain things could run faster, efficiently and in common satisfaction, perhaps even cheaper from the country's level. And with regard to the Third Law on the Elections of the Regional Councils and the Provincial Leadership, we agree with the proposal before us that our proposal would also be to extend the incompatibility of all these various functions already listed and covered in the proposal to the effect that a Member could not be a member of the Council of the Province. We, by not agreeing that the Members may not be the mayors, not because they think that this is not possible, but because it certainly constitutes a certain disturbance in the performance of the parliamentary function on the one hand and a certain absence of the mayor on the level of the municipality, where people need it practically every day and all day, not to say on Saturdays and holidays, as some have already mentioned. By thinking that we Members are deciding on legislation at the state level, we are the executive body at the state level, the provincial councillors without Members who would be smarter there than they are, and so on. So that we do not have some major problems in this respect, we are pleased that these proposals have finally been made in the adoption of this provincial legislation. We believe that the extreme time, the landscapes are gaining increasing weight in Europe, is also important because of the integration in the European space and also our countries outside the neighbours. So that, on the part of the four Members, the Minister will have no problem in supporting the adoption of these laws, even if they remain as they are, because we think that in practice it will be very quick to show whether adjustments are needed, which then, in the context of reduced procedures or new legal solutions, are immediately possible, without specific and large words, so that we think that we are a step closer to the common intention of starting this decentralisation, we are trying to reach it at the level of the landscape and then by completing it and in practice to the level that we will all enjoy and the common benefit of the citizens and the country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. But I invite one of the Members of the Slovenian People's Party to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers. I'll try to be very brief, but I'd still like to do a little historical tour. In 1994, we missed the adoption of local legislation for about half a year, and we adopted it, and then some colleagues who would like to praise that the fifth or sixth term in this National Assembly had broken their hands when they said that we would destroy this country now because we are establishing, I think, in the first round of 156 congregations. The same was true when we reopened the possibility of establishing congregations in 1998, a quiz and a scream from some colleagues about how to crush this congregation, how bad it would be. And not to repeat, they repeat each time, we will remember - even in last year, when we reopened the possibility of establishing congregations with some shouting and blood and how some colleagues then said what would and would not. And some here repeat the same under this legislation, which we call "improvement of local self-government or the approximation of state administration to local levels or local needs". I am even more surprised, given that this has been discussed by some who have had the opportunity to amend the provisions of the Constitution for 16 years, and I hope to say, except that I think that colleagues from the Slovenian National Party have almost unanimously accepted the amendment of the Constitution with regard to the possibility of establishing provinces. I apologize if I mispronounced, but I think they were colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. And then I expected that, just as we all were for that, let's give what we haven't been able to do for 15 years, so that we can do the same for the consideration of all five laws. I understand the Minister and some of the colleagues who have debated this way, but I do not understand some who expect us to deal with the seats, the scale and I do not know what to do today. Look, when I'm listening to some of the debates in the office, and I'm also reading the newspapers, how the mayors are meeting, and as Comrade Drofenik said, some purely unorthodox coalitions are talking, at this point most of them would have decided for 20, 22, maybe even more. However, if we were to consider in advance or simultaneously this so-called technical law, or also the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes and the Establishment of a Area, I think that this debate would not have 12 hours, but I think 12 days. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I think that colleague Drofenik presented today that we are assessing that the legislation is well prepared, that also the provision we have written down in constitutional changes, that the slave municipalities may eventually be defined on a different definition than it is. I, too, personally warned the Minister, but unfortunately, he did not name at least the Notranj-Brahk, nor his professional service the future province in which I was supposed to be placed - Notranjska, and perhaps any problem or any initiative to carry out the referendum at our end is smaller than it is at this moment. I want to tell the Minister and his professional associates, not because it comes from our kind, I will say the Slovenian People's Party, because the Minister, the successful hand in carrying out this project, which we have not been able to carry out in sixteen years, and I think Comrade Moje said he could, the hotel and he was willing to pull, pull and eventually this Gordy knot, which is called the upgrade or the completion of local self-government, is also cut. I hope that these tensions, which are now on the ground, by a large number, after the changes, will lead us, I will say, to this year's legislation, and that we will all be able to go together to the next year's elections, which they will be told, to the elections to the future provinces. However, I think that both the Minister and other experts from today's debate may have received some new information or some new expectations. For example, when Colleague Pozsonec spoke about the issue of the Italian and Hungarian minorities living in Slovenia, that it was likely that, despite the fact that future provinces were significantly broader than the areas now defined by the Constitution as bilingual, she said that the status of these two minorities living in Slovenia should be sought and determined or also recorded. Once again, if I repeat, I want a successful hearing and referendum to those municipalities and those municipal councils who have decided on this to prepare the so-called fourth law on the basis of this, and that we are likely to have it in September or October, but I think we will be able to get it under consideration at the September session and then we will also be able to make comparisons. At the same time, I expect that, on the basis of today's debate, as well as the information it will receive from the field, legislation will be in place to provide us with, in fact, two other laws, together with the results, both the referendums and the information provided by various forms of association and associations in the field, if I are talking about mayors or parties who have signed certain requirements for the establishment of additional provinces. Let me get this straight. If the minister was as lovable or even more profitable as he was when he cut the Gordy knot, I think we should have in our Slovenia, regardless of whether we were historically divided, 6 provinces and have historic landscapes, with historical names or one colleague showing me 7, maybe there are 7 historical ones, and we would have Gorenjska, Koroško, Štajersko, Prekmurje, Primorsko, Dolenjsko, I don't know where the seventh one is. [[...]] It's not Notranian, it's not. Part of Notranjska belonged to Primorski and now belonged to the Land of Kranjska. So that I am not burdened with Notranjska, I am burdened by the name of the current proposal of Notranjska, given that in fact the Illyrian Bistrica was never Notranjska, part of Postojna received the area of Notranjska under the rapal contract. The border between Notranjska and the so-called Primorsko are Javorniki and Krusica. The ones you know when you drive down the old road under the viaduct of Ravbarkomand or viaduct, there was this border. But also Postojna-Pivočna kolina and Illyrian Bistrica are not classic Primorska. The Illyrian Bistrica was more of a seaman. But do you know which coast? With its seat in the River or Opatija, during the Austro-Hungarian period. Not to be too long; I want to successfully implement this legislation and, I will say, prepare for the substantive debate, as it was today, even at the September session, when we are two more missing, and the Minister said three more missing laws will be put into procedure or into treatment and admission. I will personally support it, and, as I say, I expect the Minister to know the things he found appropriate today from the debate, I will say, to incorporate them into these legislation so that he can prepare them for a second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And the word is from Member Stana Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all colleagues, colleagues, the Minister with his co-workers. Given that the provinces have been establishing or preparing or trying to establish for a very long time, let's say for at least 10 years, it means that this business is demanding. That this work is difficult. I believe that the current government, the minister, has taken this work seriously and so far it seems that these laws incorporate principles that are good. These principles are mainly the transfer of powers, personnel, finance from different levels, from the country level down to the region and, of course, certain powers from the municipalities up to the region. Why is that good? Because delegation of powers also means decision-making. Those who decide at a lower level are better aware of the problem, and they are better aware of the things that are going on in a region, so they can also make more quality, more up-to-date decisions. The fact is, the region is going to cost a little more, even though I'd like to see it stand just as much as it costs now, but I think it's going to be a little bit more. But the seizure must be significantly greater, that's important. The proceeds of that money that will be invested in the region must be increased, and that is what this is all about. The purpose of local self-government, the introduction of one level more, is not to increase the administration, which is already well-favoured, but to make a profit and to develop those funds that are intended for the development of the region, but it doesn't matter which one, all regions. In support of this, I would say that in the last 10 years there have been many talks about small congregations, but history has shown whether the past, because it is not yet history, has shown that small congregations have developed well. I hope to say that even smaller regions, that means that they have the opportunity to develop, that it is essential what I have previously stressed that the proceeds of money are good and that projects are good and all that is happening. But this is what I have already stressed, that it is very good, that it is good to know the problems and that these problems are being solved and that it is making a good profit. So far, I can see that there is a lot of wisdom, a lot of common sense and good law in these proposed laws. Of course, it is necessary for these laws to be adopted at the end of 60 votes. This means that they need to continue to be tolerated and given a lot of common sense. In the end, I can wish everyone who creates and participates in these laws a lot of happiness, a lot of wisdom. I'm also going to do my best to install some of the things they're holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Member Miran Jerič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Today, when we are starting the process of adopting provincial legislation here in Parliament, I must say that in the past I have been held in favour of the introduction of the provinces and that I have long thought that maybe in Slovenia the provinces may not necessarily be necessary, I will say when I was elected as a Member 12 years ago and some time later, but there are some experiences of the municipalities that have shown extremely good results, which the previous authorities have consistently disputed, all 12 years and have said that a slightly larger number of municipalities do not benefit on the ground and when they have found that this strategy of rejecting the municipalities and their impact has not been undermined by verbal propaganda and the introduction of the provinces, but there have been no serious intentions in these efforts. So that now, after 12 years of wrong policies of over-centralisation, conscious centralisation, the provinces are actually needed to bring people closer together, decentralisation and even regional development. As I said, although the former authorities had significantly better options for the majority, it was only in this mandate that we changed the Constitution with political will and this change of constitution was made despite the fact that this option has a nostalgic relationship to the Constitution, since Slovenian statehood and the present Slovenian Constitution are only root of this option. That should be made clear. And that is why we have always been very careful in changing the Constitution, but the conditions are now here and this project continues. The proof that Slovenia has been extremely centralised not only administratively over the past 12 years, but also on opportunities and opportunities has previously been submitted by a colleague of Potrč, who stated how from the surroundings of Ljubljana from this medium distance everything is listed in Ljubljana, the active population for employment, up to 50%, 60%. And that indicates the wrong development in the past, and now it seems to me that the current Ljubljana mayor would like to shake the environment and parasitize within the landscape's regime and take more selfish care of his fellow citizens. This approach, as currently indicated, is not good. Although I know that the capitals are in some federal states where the system of federal states is and that something can be discussed, but the areas must be functionally and rationally connected, and in this rationality I would like to say that you have lost your opportunity in the previous 12 years, it is obvious that Slovenia would be divided into less rural areas. It seems to me that the number 14 is either too large or too large and absolutely upper the upper edge of the possible number of landscapes. However, this political will to form historic landscapes has not been apparent in the past. This was not the case, and now we are just where it was possible to achieve some kind of political consensus on which, I hope, we can be confident that this coherence will not, for example, be the same as in the resolution on higher education where you broke up as Racan that agreement and coherence that we will not have any problems with this. Before that, my colleague Kontic said that the spirit of the new provinces had already escaped from the bottle. I'll say, not only did he get out of the bottle, you set him on fire a lot and set him on fire for political and political purposes. In many places, the opposition from this bottle and from this spirit has made dangerous hammers forward. And here I warn against such a practice for the future. In this direction, as I said, there was also a statement by my colleague Gantar that if the government doesn't know what to do, it will reorganise. Now I'm asking my colleague Gantar, who is not here right now, what has been done by the Gantar government or by the famous Robov, who was the minister. What did she do in this area? Here I do not remember any results or any honest political will. And, as I mentioned, the number of landscapes and designations. Both the number and the designation should be seen through the prism of identity and affiliation. We know that it was only this week that we had the first marriage, which also talks about domestic education, that education for identity, for civic pride and patriotism in the past period was something bad. And, of course, God forbid that we lose this relationship through the provinces or something anchored in the identity and pride of the Slovenians so that it will not be even more present in the future. For this reason, I must say that I am proud to be the first to immediately warn Minister Žagar when we coordinated on the coalition that it is absolutely unacceptable that the term Styria lost its name. Since Styria is divided into five provinces, it is likely that Maribor and the province must necessarily bear the term, the name "Central Styria", otherwise in the European space it would look like that Styria is only a province in Austria, but we would, of course, slowly lose consciousness that there is a Styria and for this Slovenia, without Styria Slovenia today, great people have stood up in the past: Slomšek, Maister and on what to hang these concepts and Slomška and Maistra, if we no longer have Štyerske. Another thing, if it were the Drava Banovin, would have dangerously associated me, not the Banovina, the Podravska krajina na Dravsko Banovina in the old Yugoslavia, which was for completely other political reasons, which was due to the dissolution, was Pašić's policy. Minister Žagar also has as strong a beard as Pašić had, but I believe that he is completely different here and that Slovenia is aware of these needs, and that is all, mostly already agreed, I hope that, I think, because he did not object, he immediately accepted these arguments and this will be. Finally, let me say that, of course, I support this legislation. I think she's carefully prepared to be good enough to be in treatment and on wallpaper. Of course, I'm aware that maybe, but the other solution is not, it's not the best, as far as elections are concerned, it's the connection between national assemblies and provincial districts, you vote. We will have to move this in the future, because these two will be permanently running, this is a slightly different approach, but I think it will have to be slightly changed in the future, that covering double, different elections is better with some different elections. But well, to think about it, I now hope that the opposition will not work on the fact that these elections will not be possible at the same time next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u75	So, my friend Kontic signed up for the replica. But let me ask you before this: Does that really make sense? Are you sure? You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u76	Mr Vice President, I agree with you that maybe it doesn't make sense. However, I suggest to Mr Jerovšek that he wait in the Chamber, if he objects, it would be good for him to hear the answer. There was no politics at the time when we proposed an additional province of Savinijsko-Shaleška, and I did not talk about this spirit. I am afraid that number 14 is not the last number, that there may be some other province, that there may be any other place in Slovenia that wants the country, and that is why I said, given the debate that is now taking place in Slovenia, that requirements for additional provinces will probably be present in different regions. I really enjoy today listening to those individuals who were unheard of for the provinces in the previous term, how now that they have the government explaining how necessary it is and how good it would be to introduce the province. Mr. Bajc is so unlikely to be able to calm down, but if you try, Mr. Vice President, I will be grateful. Mr Jerovšek was also among those who did not support regionalisation, which did not support the provinces, said himself that he had a negative opinion towards the provinces, but now he has changed his position slightly. And it is good that he has changed it, because Slovenia needs the provinces and it is right that we agree here. In my introduction to the Group of Social Democrats, I said that we supported the provinces when we were in the Government and regionalisation, now that we are in opposition, of course not at any cost, but the provinces that will have meaning and content. Mr Jerovšek, however, I would be delighted if some spirit would ever return to the bottle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Cyril Testen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. First of all, I would like to congratulate Minister Zhagar for having successfully led to this stage of establishing the provinces. I think there's going to be a lot of problems in this final phase. And if this wagon leads to the end, I congratulate him today for the result, which will, no matter what the number of provinces will be, or will be, 14 or less. I'd like to say that I've talked to a lot of people, that I have some views of municipal councils, some views of mayors. Last but not least, at my previous meeting, I also raised a question from the Members about the provinces, and I must say that these views are very different. That's why I think things are going to be very difficult to get to the end. I will support this legislation, which is suitable for further consideration, otherwise I will support it. I expect a lot of changes, however, because I think there is a lot to be done in this legislation, so that it can or will be suitable for adoption. As far as the content is concerned, you might want to say a few words about decentralisation. We've heard a lot about this today, but I have to say my point of view. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I think from the state level to the provinces, that-that works. Decentralisation is seen from this point of view. But when we look from the bottom up, especially from the point of view where we have administrative units today, then I personally care about this decentralisation, because it will mean some form of centralisation for us or some kind of reverse flow will happen to us. I understand decentralisation in particular as a transfer of powers from a higher to a lower level, but by no means from below, although you can say that administrative units are state administration and would be from above down, but this will in fact be transferred from the location, such as if I take the case of Tolmin, Ajdovščina, Idrija to Novo Gorica, if the country seat is there. And here's where I'm worried. I am particularly concerned that there will also be quality jobs that are there in these places. So, I can see that. In particular, if I say that the transfer experience of the tax administration, inspection services and some others, which are also not directly related, has been very poor. There was also much talk about more coherent regional development. Here it repeats itself, here is a similar story. More coherent regional development, if these funds are to be more fairly distributed across the country's territory, by province, then yes, from this point of view, but more coherent regional development is also needed within the province. This is where we're gonna get in trouble. We're going to have trouble here mainly because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u79	Mr. Testen, if you'll excuse me. What are you guys doing making fun of in the National Assembly? Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u80	Those areas of the province, which are least developed, are usually the worst inhabited and will have the least impact on the functioning of the province or on the distribution of development funds. And here I see a certain problem, says in those urban settlements the most resources will remain. I do. I've already offered an idea on the question of parliament. I think that, and I think that today, too, by the Mayor of Tržič, in a way has been repeated, I think that, on the basis of the network organisation of regional development agencies, the landscapes could work in a certain sense. I do not think that we could now move the center of the province from Nova Gorica, but it is true that some provincial institution could also function in Tolmin, even in Ajdovščina, even in Idrija. So I think, from this point of view, especially such institutions, which are not directly linked to a large number of people or arrivals associated with the operation itself. About unity and duality. I think it's very, very embarrassing that now that we're talking, when we're in the first phase of talking about the provinces and because we are, in fact, there's a unitary system set up here that we've also started talking about the establishment of thefts, administrative thefts. I don't think it's good for this project, and I don't think it's going to hurt. The number of landscapes, my vision is that it should be smaller. I mean, that idea about eight provinces seems very interesting to me, and if it were proposed, I would personally support it. Well, it was said that on a political level, I think one of the debaters earlier said, "We are all united in establishing or establishing the provinces." That's not exactly my opinion. If we take the political level of the municipalities as well, and I have to say that there are a lot of reservations on these levels to the provinces and in all of these discussions, which I have had on the territory mainly of Primorska, I think that opinions are very different, some want, some do not want, some want a single Primorska landscape, others want two Primorski krajina, so there are very different views here. [[...]] It is true, however, that the costs of public administration are likely to increase slightly with the provinces, but if this makes the services for citizens better, then there will probably be no disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. And the word has the Minister, do you answer? [[...]] Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. From now on I should still say, because today I was first, I think, declared as Croat, now, if I understand the honourable Member, Pasic, I think it was Serbs, so I still have to say that I am Slovenian. And as far as Styrian is concerned, I don't need to be reminded of that, because I know exactly where I'm from. I am explaining this because the names used at the starting point follow from the basic concept and clearly does not want to be understood. We have taken the basic concept of territorial division, which, of course, is based on one side of the statistical development regions with the same name as those named, which means that it is in some way an inheritance in our case and, of course, we have already used or also indicated other designations in the call. Now, about some of the questions that have arisen. I would point out once again that decentralisation within individual provinces is extremely important in decentralising the country, and it is probably important to pay particular attention here, because, of course, we are not talking about municipalities in this case, but we are talking about the provinces. And many times, when I listen to the mayors, and lately I've been alone for quite a long time, someone comes into the show to manage two levels. This is not possible, these are completely different levels of local self-government. It is true, however, that, at this point in time, the mayors are also concerned about the management of these regional development direct incentives, because we do not have another mechanism at once. However, it is said that decentralisation is also important at this level and that is why it is extremely important for the Electoral Units Act, which will be able to be within individual provinces; but it cannot be proposed until we have areas of the surrounding regions; it ensures as much uniform representation as possible of representatives in the provincial councils, in a political body that will actually decide all decisions. By the fact that, of course, the council of municipalities is here envisaged as a correctional body and it would probably be wrong if the mayors could now be in both bodies, even because the image from individual provinces, as regards the number of municipalities that will be these provinces, is extremely different. We have, say, if we take this starting point, then we have, say, a province, but I think it's going to go to a higher level, but let's say a province that has only three municipalities. We have, on the other hand, what I know, Pomurje, which has close to 30 municipalities, I speak little of the mind, and it is a completely different situation and also probably within, in this case, where more fragmented municipalities are, even within one constituency, more municipalities will be needed and such representation will not be possible. I repeat that; because I also have the feeling that, in this sense, it is even a little bit misleading that access to services and the quality of services, i.e. the services that citizens or citizens and citizens will come to, will still be at the same location. We have also written this in particular in law, but it is true that that part of the administrative unit, in this sense, will be transferred to the province, but not physically, but will remain physically in that same location. The province will only work as you said in this sense - network, today there is no telecommunications problem. It's not about moving, let's say, what do I know, in your case, I think, from Tolmin to Nova Gorica, but stay things there. And this allows, of course, even though, as far as administration and institutions are concerned, only this part that comes from administrative units goes far beyond that. This is essential in all other institutions. And, of course, it is possible to link individual institutions to these physical seats and also to ensure, from the point of view of internal provincial distribution, some more even representation in terms of network organisation. And this situation is probably - it would make sense that it would be present in all environments, even where even more dominant centres are possible or where we do not have dominant centres and at this point we have, say, problems with the location of the headquarters of the future province. And, of course, I also appeal to it all the time, and I also appeal to this agreement. As far as the solutions in this legislation are concerned, these solutions, as I have already said, have been widely coordinated in the National Assembly, including in several rounds of coordination with all political parties. And we went forward with these solutions at a time when there was also agreement with most political parties or parliamentary groups that legislation was suitable for further discussion in the National Assembly. And here, again, I repeat, we follow the order of some events, because it is not possible to prepare a technical law before a substantive work which basically defines the content, and these are defined. Similarly, the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes itself applies, where the procedure is different, including the opinions of the municipalities and the practical two-step procedure. In this part we follow this basic direction. I also repeat that this legislation will then be adopted unanimously by the Government. So all the other laws that are behind this will also have to be in line with this legislation. It is true, however, that at this point a number of laws are being drawn up in different ministries and we are participating in these procedures all the time. The degree of harmonisation also depends on the stage of the preparation of the individual law. However, the harmonisation of those laws currently being drawn up is already taking place on the basis of provincial legislation. The second part of the legislation, which will have to be amended, is being opened and amended at this time. And this is where we work widely with the Ministry. It is true, however, that a debate is taking place, as is the case here, also at the professional level, including in these coordinations. However, I estimate that there are solutions in this direction that we want to carry absolutely down in the development sense of the task and that this orientation is followed, in particular as regards development. Perhaps - although the honourable Member now, Mr Ptræ, is not in the Chamber - I repeat that we are transferring jobs in the sense of decentralisation in this work as well. We are not talking about jobs, there are no new jobs, but jobs are being transferred. And I have already said today that in this sense some flows where people come to work will also be diverted partly because of the landscapes and this is also useful in this part. This intellectual potential, which will be further enriched in individual environments, can only be positive for the development of individual landscapes. I also repeat that this financial operation is neutral. Perhaps from a cost point of view, on the one hand we are transferring tasks down and these tasks are being carried out today. And someone's already doing these tasks. This administration is also a core, the structure of landscape administrations. In the second part, we also made an assessment of the net additional cost. The working body in the province is estimated around; and I think you have also obtained this data if we are still speaking in tolars to make it more plastic; 850 million tolars is about, say, an additional cost from this title. However, when we talk about business premises, of course, it is necessary to do so; of course, if we move jobs, of course, there are business spaces needed, on the other hand they relax, and they will probably relax in Ljubljana. And in this part, I can only expect a positive effect because the rents or costs of business premises in Ljubljana are higher than they are elsewhere. We don't see any extra costs here. It is true, and I absolutely agree with that; this needs to be pointed out, because otherwise it may be a great danger and a great trap; in order for this title to result in any increase in the administration, but this is not a basic purpose. I am sure that, together with the Minister of Finance, we are watching over this work that is actually happening now. I would also like to stress this, as is the case with the country-by-land assessments, of course, these assessments ensure the performance of the tasks transferred by law to the provinces. Of course, these costs are not about wages, but there are many other development tasks, including development investments, and this is actually the main part. At this point, of course, these things also stand, so that legislation is covered in this respect. It also covers this segment. It is true, however, that at this point we can make definitive and very precise assessments, even because we are still preparing this law, which is said to be the last tolar or not, we can submit. This follows now from this preparation of the technical law already under way. In this respect, it also refers to a particular province, what has been exposed, but the answer here cannot be given precisely enough because we still have an open question of the border of the province. And, of course, these answers will also be given in parallel. Assessments at this point, which have been made up to this extent, including through interventions, financially indicate that the funding system, while providing development functions, while ensuring a system of subsidiarity, must also ensure solidarity. Finally, we want to ensure equal funding throughout the whole area, and also to ensure that all these tasks are carried out. And perhaps even on the question that has already arisen here many times today, in parallel with the congregations. What do the provinces bring compared to the congregations? What do congregations bring? The municipalities mean that we, with 5% of the gross product, are estimated to be operating at the level of the whole of Slovenia, roughly evenly, especially with the adoption of the new Law on the Financing of the Communities, and that from this title this system of governance is significantly more effective because it is close to people and in those parts where, of course, there is a room for manoeuvre, the municipalities decide on these content, these priorities and so on apply to the provinces. The level is second, but this also means an additional 5 to 6% of the gross product. Management is transferred down from the state level down to avoid misinterpretation, and evenly spread across the territory of Slovenia, of course within the framework, is approaching in this sense management of people and indirectly brings additional development effects, which can then also be reflected in other parameters, such as gross product growth and the provision of living conditions. I also agree that the economic category in this respect is not the only one that we need to take into account all the other categories that also follow from the perspective of, say, sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Because I was obviously misunderstood, or because Minister Zhagar knows exactly that he didn't, God forbid that I would think of him as, how did he say someone called him a Serb? It is true, however, that when I spoke about association with, not association, about the negative call, if it were Dravska krajina, Podravska, that I remembered the Drava Banovina and priest of the father, who was such a powerful politician with a powerful beard, and I only added this to promote the debate, but God forbid, but I don't know who had it before, but I didn't listen to it, who had it for the Croats, so, God forbid that such a finding, which was a little to be added to Minister Žagar then from my debate, I know that he doesn't really think so. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Advertising in the hall]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u86	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. In this debate on the regionalisation of Slovenia, I will focus more briefly, in fact only on those matters which are not entirely clear in the proposals of the laws. First of all, I must say that, of course, this debate that took place before today was good and effective. With the Minister, as well as with the one who brought proposals to the parliamentary group, it was possible to speak normally, and I must say here that this is the work in Parliament, which I think is constructive and should be welcomed, and especially to give it to another minister, who never has time to cooperate with Parliament, but has much time to criticize Parliament and order Parliament. But anyway, all things aren't completely clean here, either. Today we are talking about three laws, the Law on Provinces, the elections in the provinces and the financing of the provinces, but this is also related to the law that talks about numbers and seats, at least as it has proved to be in the debate, and again it has proved to be a great danger that it will also later become a semi-historic, very local-patric thinking about the provinces, even though we continue to hear the emphasis that it is a development landscape. The development landscapes also mean that we are very entangled in Europe and it is certainly our desire, Slovenia's desire to have as strong a landscape as possible, not as weak as possible. This applies in general to those areas that are at the borders of some larger, stronger provinces in neighbouring countries, and we can talk here at least about Austria, Italy and Croatia. Not only do we have strong landscapes near borders there, but we also have very strong cities, very strong financial, banking, urban, industrial, whatever you want, centres. Trieste, for example, which certainly has a lot of monetary power, Graz, we are not talking about Zagreb, which is still the capital. So that this fragmentation of Slovenia to the provinces is dangerous from this point of view, it is said that we live not only within our country, but also outside. And from each other. In fact, even now that there are no provinces or wonders how many of them there will be, at least in the narrations, the concerns of the inhabitants, the Slovenes and the Slovenians, and the citizens of Slovenia about what these small centres will bring, these small centralities that can sometimes be worse than the great centralism. Even so far goes in some parts of Slovenia that some things are already seen for the heads of the provinces that are not yet there. I'm sure that, Mr. Secretary, himself knows, because he's on the ground a lot. These are matters to be pointed out and considered how to limit them by law and yet to do what we want them to do, saying some effective intermediate level between the state and the municipalities. Another danger is that I think it is most pronounced in the Proposal for a Law on the Financing of Landscapes, which is, in some ways, the incorporation of non-ambitiousness into the landscape. It is said that, given all these imbalances, given the different flows of financial resources, the landscapes may also have an ambition to be non-ambitious, it is worth staying poor, underdeveloped, poor, so that they can easily or in an easier way reach the funds. This has also proved to be true in the congregations, not to say that in everyone, but in some places this ambition is the one that confused everyone else. But we're talking about development, we're talking about progress. However, the law can also accelerate the regression when it does change these matters. That's how much I'd have. Now, Mr Minister, I hope that you will bring this matter to an end, but if you do realize that things are not developing in the way you want them to; sometimes I feel that you don't believe that things are going to work out the way they should; then it is better to stay the way they are. For all other laws relating to how the country is managed will need to be amended not only in this mandate but also in the next. This is another danger that speaks in favour of those who say that the number of provinces in Slovenia must be as low as possible and then they will be more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you very much. A respected minister with co-workers. It's probably already a pain in your ass, and my speech won't be any different. Anyway, if I've listened to others all day, I'll let myself talk. I believe you have good intentions under this provincial law. Nova Slovenija also believes in this, which is why it also supported the change of the Constitution. And that is also what people believe because we are telling them on the ground in this sense that, as some advocates have said today, it will be more equitable, faster development, that the administration will be more friendly, accessible, rational, and believe that it will not stop enough, and that everything will be in the same place. That's what people like, but it stops there when they start asking us specifically about the tasks that it's going to look like. But it is not so clear there and I think that the ministries are not responding or are not taking your reforms so seriously, because I think there is still a lot to do both in the ministry and in the legislative field so that these provinces will run out next year. And since we speak so well of the provinces, it is also likely that there is so much interest on the ground in the provinces, because they think that every province, even a small one, can work. And as I said before, the first thing they ask us are the tasks, the second, why they're in a particular province and the third is this fear, the centralization of the landscapes. I am also asking myself, or you are in New Town, when the government in Dolenjska said that when I asked how this could be prevented, say, one Celje will really not develop any faster than one Cossack congregation or one Church compared to New York City. And you said that this would have to be put into law. I really want to know what this regulation is going to be like. I do not want these centers to develop, but I want to know how those who are already underdeveloped will develop faster. Then I ask you something about where they're going to be, say, from the Loc Strait of Kostel, if they're in Ribnica or Kočev, for example, they're going to be in New Town. You've been saying this all day that they're going to be exactly where they've been, but let's say, when I've looked at what's going on in the area of agriculture, it's going to say status, and you've given up your guilt, say, on the government board, and the paperwork for the complementary activity, to sort it out in the country. Is this going to be in the country now, or is it going to be the administrative unit in Trebnje, or are they going to have to go to New Town now? If it's in Trebnje, I don't know what they'll be doing in the country. I'd like to hear those answers. I have one more question. When they asked me why, say, the Lok stream, the Ribnica was joined by Dolenjska because they said they had never been territorially connected to Dolenjska, just because of the name. I have a feeling that we would rather be under Ljubljana or under Notranjska if there were professional reasons because Dolenjska is a relatively large province, otherwise we do not complain, but they question our decentralisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that I have not been present all day in this debate, but in this short period of time I have shed much of this debate and, of course, I hope that I will not be duplicating this debate. However, some of the findings are that I did not really expect so much skepticism to be exposed to the provinces in this debate today, and I did not expect to talk so much about the meaning of the landscapes. I think we've cleared this up. I was convinced that when we went to change the constitution, that we were actually all, both coalition and opposition Members, we made it clear somewhere that in the sense of establishing the provinces, we would still see an advantage and that today we would make a substantial contribution to the content of these three laws that we have on the table. I believe in the landscape project myself. I believe, above all, that because the congregations that were established in 1994, this is said to be that crowd of congregations, because they have produced very important results. Earlier it was heard, Comrade Bajc said, even then there was a great deal of skepticism in the establishment of the congregations, whether the congregations would bring what we expected of them, what citizens expect. Today I can say, I don't think there's anyone else who would say otherwise. You know, maybe that's when this decision meant, I'll say, some kind of risk. There must have been a lot of opposition. It is similar with establishing the provinces. If we asked people in Slovenia today what they thought about the provinces, they don't really have much information about it yet, but they would say: If the provinces would bring such effects as the municipalities have brought them, then we are in favour. Then we are in favour of the establishment of these provinces. I was present today in Gorenjska, at a very difficult meeting of the Goran mayors, where we are still looking for a location, a joint location for waste disposal in Gorenjska. Even today, we have not come to a common solution. There must have been quite a few of us in Gorenjska, which we said, given that certain tasks from the Environment Ministry are also transferred to the provinces, it is also very necessary to establish the province from this point of view. I am particularly pleased that, from the jurisdiction of the country to the provinces, there are, for example, certain powers of the Ministry of Transport, and I am sure that this will also make it easier to regulate state road infrastructure, as we often see that local roads, municipal roads, which are cared for by the municipalities, are better arranged and the latter are not forgotten, as are those of the most distant countries of the road, which are too far away from the centre. I am particularly pleased that, and of course, I will also endeavour to continue to see the powers, when we speak of the Ministry of the Environment and the area of competence, as well as the regulation of storms, come to the provinces. This task is also of great importance to me, for I am convinced that if it were already under the jurisdiction of the congregations, these areas, in those most remote congregations, in those congregations that have a great deal of problem with the resolution of the regulation of chandeliers, would be of flood safety in order to facilitate the resolution of these areas. Of course, you talk about it, well, establishing the provinces makes sense if the minister ensures that this does not mean a substantial increase in costs now. This is probably difficult to say at this point, but if the new landscapes will bring some higher quality of living, quality of life in the regions, then, after all, quality can also cost something. It also bothers me that the former government is very often heard in this hall, and the former authorities did not have a hearing ear to take it away. Good. I wouldn't go down on my own and I don't want to get into such controversy, we're Members here right now, it's up to us to, after all, get this provincial legislation out and not get the blame back. So, I really expect from all Members, not least those who have already indicated somewhere today that this matter is not the right one, that it is not going in the right direction, that we will continue to be in the future, because the real work is actually waiting for us, that we are actually going to go into the very contents of this legislation in the further debate and see, so let us, today, agree as much as possible, that these frameworks, which are now given by these three laws, say that these laws are right for further consideration and that it is reasonable to adopt them. Similarly, if you buy a ticket, you have a chance to hit the lottery, otherwise not. I am convinced that in this law, there are still reserves, that with the amendments we will have the opportunity to resolve many of the dilemmas that have been exposed today. So, personally, once again, I emphasize what I have already said, I see a lot of sense in the landscapes, and I finally believe in this project that we are starting today, and let us support it! I will personally support him for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. In order to shorten time, I could give up the debate, but I want to say something. And in order not to take advantage of all the time we still have, I wrote myself something. See, after we adopted at first reading in 1999, those who were in this Chamber will recall this, the proposal for a law on the province of Koroška, and at that time the existing supervisory legislation, namely, Articles 138 and 143 of the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government, in a series of articles, I myself have been thinking about continuing with these initiatives, which have finally moved things towards the application of regionalism. Let me remind you right here that the Social Democrats, with Dr. Ribič's colleague at the helm, have always been attached to this project and his staunch advocate, but there has been no hearing from the parties who today form the coalition, and for this reason it has not been possible to take a consistent and comprehensive step towards this path because the change of the constitution, as we know, has required, as well as today, two-thirds support. I welcome once again that you, the supporters and supporters of the government, the current government, have finally realized that we have been right and have also won the project as a leader in this mandate. But don't brag too much as I've heard in the beginning that what you've done to previous governments has failed. Unfortunately, you have not helped us in this, but today our assistance in the role of opposition parties is self-evident in order to bring this project to life. Well, if I go back to my ideas towards the end of the 1996-2000 mandate, how to move things from a dead point, and if I go back to the step we took with Koroška at the time, I have also prepared a proposal for the Istrian Region Act, not just in mind, but on the basis of the rich experience we had on the coast, from Piran via Izola to Kopra, from the time of the municipal arrangements and the connections of the three municipalities to the only then existing and functioning regional community in Slovenia, in addition to the community of Ljubljana municipalities. I did not table a bill at the time to move forward and thus perhaps make it difficult to work towards a common uniform introduction of the provinces, but I hoped that these efforts, which first required a change of constitution, would ensure success. Well, it would be another six, seven years before the necessary majority in Parliament could be formed. Now we finally have it. But we're wondering where. To which stage of the procedures for establishing and initiating the operation of the provinces. The dilemmas whether these communities will justify their purpose or not to increase public spending, or whether they will be large enough, competent and materially strong enough to paralyze centralism. Will they allow meaningful territorial connections, or will Europe be comparable to where the seats will be? Will they not take the power of the congregations and misreplace the country in those tasks that will be delegated to them? All these dilemmas are growing in public. In order to be part of this sensitive stage of adoption of the work of the necessary laws, they should be equipped with clear and convincing answers, either from the experience that is unfortunately lacking in Slovenia, except on the coast and in Ljubljana, or from the simulations that they should carry out. When I was then allowed to make sure that it would not be good to introduce the province gradually, one over there, depending on the consensus between the country and the local environment, I suggested that some pilot communities of this kind should nevertheless be set up, with special status and limited mandate, to try and verify their operation, their cost, their purpose, in particular in meeting the development needs of a particular area, and not least to check people's satisfaction with it. There was no hearing again if there was no constitutional basis. Well, and today we're kind of in front of a pool that's pretty empty and we're going to take whatever solutions we're going to take, and we're still going to be at risk of jumping into it. I'll afford to irrigate my leg first, check the temperature and, above all, the depth of the water. Otherwise, in my view, the legislation which will lay down the organisation and competences of the province must be designed in such a way that the original and delegated powers will be meaningful, not only with the general, but also with the specific needs of the individual environment. The colleague Pečanova mentioned for the southern Primorska, for example, the care of the coastal sea and the Italian national community, which are the characteristics of this area alone. I can add cross-border regional cooperation with Croatia and Italy, which takes place only in this area, only the coast or Slovenian Istria borders with both countries. And, although we are not playing with the territorialization of the provinces today, we know that this has already been quite debated, for the government's proposal in 14. With regard to the solution proposed at my end for southern Primorska, Mr Minister and representative of the Government, I invite you to listen to this, the consultation referendum, which will be held in Ilirska Bistrica and also to invite you to rename Goriška to northern Primorska. One maritime province itself, because new ones are also proposed, at our end, I am not the most inclined to be for the pool, in my opinion even deeper and even less water, and not least an expert solution with 8 instead of 14 if we go this way, is foreseen in Primorska two provinces. So preventative of this, even before the solutions that you are preparing in the government for the next phase are presented to the National Assembly. Finally, in further processing these laws that we have on the table today, in particular when writing down the so-called ambivalence or transferring the work of administrative units, I advise the Government to take into account the statutes of the community of coastal municipalities that died, as we know, with the 1994 municipal system, which could still be a good guide for a wide range of other environments today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you, too. The next is Member Tomaž Šteba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, I haven't been able to monitor the whole debate today, but I will shorten what I actually wanted to say that I wouldn't happen to repeat myself by accident, and that I wouldn't need too much time to get to the end of this general debate on three provincial laws, in fact the whole package of provincial legislation. I might start by saying that 'a boyfriend has never slept with a girl before' and if you once said something to that girl and took the first step, take another step, you've adopted/we've changed the Constitution, which has actually been changed on the basis of an agreement that is actually a political reality today. About this provincial legislation, the political reality of how many provinces there are supposed to be and the basic postulates of the landscapes. I consider provincial legislation to be actually the most important internal political, local regional act adopted by this National Assembly. In fact, we are concluding a decade and a half after the establishment of autonomous, self-governing local communities in 1994, there is no longer that part of the state administration, the way of interference of the local level, as was the case in the former municipalities to which we call municipal municipalities. There was an absurd situation where in 1994 it failed to form administrative thefts and in some ways all state functions, the state administration hung on this local level, on administrative units, by connecting them only to having a joint chief and having some common premises and perhaps also a copy machine and secretary. I believe that the 1994 experience, both with the establishment of new municipalities and especially with regard to the fiasco that was at the time due to the failure to establish these administrative districts, read the provinces today so that this cannot happen again. At that time, I think, the issue has been bungled by what is being updated today, especially in the areas of the provinces and even more in the territories. In addition, of course, the fear of those who do not accept any changes, if we go to the most resilient one, that the seat of their job needs to be replaced or even that some work is no longer needed. I think that, given that we have taken these steps, we also have such experience that, in fact, it is a crucial time for us not to'sin'', that we are country-efficient and determined and that we simply adopt provincial laws, with each such big project, it is difficult to predict in advance all the consequences. However, I think that the preparation and debate in all these years, but also now to change the constitution and to change the constitution, was really thorough and that, in fact, it is now in the process of the National Assembly itself, what is still at the level of the municipalities and, of course, also among citizens, that we must do this work as soon as possible and not here to "scream" and have too much dilemma and questions. And that it will not be minimized again only to the area of the provinces in the province's seat. I think that, too often, by those who agreed and voted in favour of amending the Constitution, there have been dilemmas now that there is an attempt at opposition, too opposition and perhaps even premeditated to calculate and introduce additional confusion. I think that at least the parliamentarians should now be united in this respect and implement this project, which is our joint project. So, I won't trouble myself with what I stand for and what would be better in the opinion of one of the individuals. I think that we must all work really hard together and not give up on the various questioners, cowards and those who basically do not accept any change and any change, making use of the improvement for their calculations. In any case, in each municipality or country you have those who want to catch up more developed and you have those who want to make progress, so it will also happen in future provinces, future provinces and it is in fact then the operations of these provinces; it will probably be easier at the level of the province than the countries; that less developed provinces will be more successful in catching up and that the developed provinces can also advance faster - to drag the cart forward, to all. Similarly, it will have to happen within new provinces, as it always is within the congregations. I think that the whole administration, which is now in some way being transferred to the landscape level, will have to optimize to better service delivery, to better service delivery closer to the user, but perhaps not only physically, but also through the use of new technologies, for simpler procedures and I think with less officials. Officials will have to make it easy, and those who perform simple tasks will switch to others and will have to be educated for more demanding tasks, and these more difficult tasks will have to become more qualitative. [[...]] I think that in some way all of this administration's infrastructure will have to be optimized in connection with optimising this infrastructure at the state level. And the final result of the operations of these provinces should be to unify all these different institutions in Slovenia in order to adapt to the areas of the provinces. Even military expositions, including police expositions, and all those we know more and today have their own administrative division in this country, which is completely illogical and for this simple reason we need some basis on which everyone will then, in some way, adjust, of course with their assessments and even decide how to do so. I'd, if you'd excuse me, then maybe I'd drop it on two laws that are now under consideration, on elections and on funding. Perhaps, first of all, on financing, where it is welcomed that two basic sources are for new provinces, one source is the operation of economic operators, and the other source is the share of public revenues and other benefits collected by the State and now divests the country: 20% of the income, 20% of the excise duty on alcohol and then some other minor excise duties on tobacco products and energy products. In particular, I would like to clarify the revenue from corporate tax where, in this second indent, in some way, as I understand it, it concerns the allocation of more from legal entities in less developed regions, if I set it in the second indent correctly, where the amount is maximized and minimised, the percentage of taxes collected from legal persons' income in relation to the average in Slovenia. I think that given that the provinces will receive new tax resources from the country, and that the provinces will by no means be financed without the consent of the municipalities from those resources currently acquired by the municipalities, the municipalities will be left with the same financial resources, and that the provinces now, as organisational units, are easier to run for funds because of their size and are also raising funds for larger projects, that this is only positive. [[...]] With regard to the elections to the province, in a way, I would have to say what troubled this imbalance between the size of the provinces and the basic postulate in the electoral law, where the electoral unit would be equal to the number of inhabitants in the province. Given that the provinces are extremely different in size or by number of inhabitants, the number of inhabitants per constituency will be very different. And this diversity factor will be 1:10, you can conclude from the fact that the smallest province in the government proposal is more than ten times smaller than the largest province. Here we should take this principle into account, in order to somehow approach, not quite linearly, but in a relatively linear way, not with factor of difference 10, that each constituency in roughly the largest province, Ljubljana, has that number of inhabitants, that is also possible in the area of five smaller municipalities, that at least one member of the provincial council in such a province will be elected in this constituency. This would also reduce in some way the resistance and, in fact, the uneven representation of all parts of the province in such areas where one municipality, Ljubljana Municipality, in the case of the province of Ljubljana, lacks two thirds of the entire province. 350,000 or 300,000 inhabitants, I don't know exactly, compared to the entire 500,000 inhabitants. Here is also the number of saints in the province in a complete disassociation. When you already have a difference between Savinjska and Central Slovenian province, the Ljubljana province I call it, practically the difference between the 12 members of the municipal council and the size between the provinces is a factor of two and a half. These imbalances are so obvious that I think there must be some adjustments here. The other thing is that in such a disproportionate landscape or perhaps even in a very development-oriented province, the most developed and largest in Slovenia, a mechanism known by Europe should then be introduced in such a provincial council for important decisions, not only to decide the absolute number of votes in such a rural world, but also to take into account another criterion, such as the number of votes of councillors from the municipalities. It is difficult to achieve this here, given the principle, but I think it is necessary to try to follow a not analogous Europe that has the criteria of the majority and criteria of the number of countries, the number of inhabitants, those who vote, the countries and the number of countries. I don't know, 65, 55%, but some double majority. And this mechanism should be used in important decisions, such as the province's budget, the development programme plan, say, larger projects, development projects and similar important decisions at the provincial level. Now, perhaps even though this does not belong to today’s debate, let me just for a little while now, because the current decision-making of the municipal councils is about certain areas of the province. I think that in a way these decisions have been taken without significant comparisons, scenarios, such or any other integration into the provinces. In our area, where there are three possibilities to stay and look for challenges and opportunities in a large province, the central Slovene, Ljubljana province, which is the most developed, even with the most knowledge or people, with developing and important decisive knowledge, or in such a region perhaps with such adaptations to look for an opportunity and actually have an important opportunity where some municipalities, the present Ljubljana municipality, should seek out their challenges and their future in some part and vice versa, but that, despite all of this, there is a mechanism here as a guardian for this successful accommodation, there is another possibility that the whole central area or the entire area of the Sava basin, other than Ljubljana and the works of former Ljubljana's municipalities to Posavia, could be called something else. And this province would then be the largest, second largest Slovenian province. This would also reduce the number of landscapes, and this option would also be one of those that would be carefully considered. And then, of course, what is actually in Slovenian character, everyone would like to have their own kindergarten, ambition, the real ambition of municipalities north of Ljubljana, in conjunction with municipalities easterly and possibly with some municipalities in Zasavje, form a serious province with 100 to 150,000 inhabitants, who would then also have a developmental backlog of opportunities to draw more resources from cohesion and other funds, where criteria are the level of development. All these options should in some way be examined more clearly by those who have these ambitions, we have these ambitions, but I think that the country, the Government, in particular the Ministry, should cooperate in some way, but not just wait for some coordinated proposal. This is difficult in these environments unless it is really professional and really ambitious and it is well prepared to in some way with some cooperation, but not just waiting for improvements or really meaningful decisions, but not decisions that are in some way such that in fact the majority of actors do not dare to say or say their opinions directly and withdraw from the majority and hide themselves behind a decision that likes and does not trouble them. I think that we should be realistic enough here to help these environments and that these actors should also have a serious conversation with each other, but not just decide something that was decided on in a narrow circle. In this sense, I think we should work. Finally, perhaps, I think that these landscapes are a challenge for Slovenia, opportunities and, in fact, a long-standing desire. Slovenia will receive such landscapes as these, unfortunately these are more than historical landscapes, but if this is a political reality, it is a reality and there is no point in snitching now. A determined boy is just the one who doesn't do it and takes it all to the end, or he won't sleep with the girl. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraiev has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. With the introduction of the landscapes we will complete another unfinished story, probably in the past there was no, maybe there was no time, maybe there was no real will, maybe you didn't go to the right end. We have invented a regional development agency that is supposed to have some of the functions of the provinces, or some of the tasks that we are now giving to the provinces, but we have always faced the fact that something is missing between the municipalities and the country. This government and this coalition soon, after taking responsibility for running the country, significantly increased funds for the municipalities, the reason was that, in fact, the municipalities had made much in their area, invested a lot, with less money, made much more than they had previously done in larger congregations, although there were many small congregations, in fact when they separated from large communities, in difficult situations and dealt with basic things such as plumbing, sewerage and the like, and all of these things were relatively short-term, which were not regulated decades ago, and proved themselves not to hold back to the pure claim that the small municipalities would not survive, that they would not be able to perform the functions that we gave them, that is, the tasks that they had with the law and later on with other laws virtually all the years. But it turns out that more is being done in small congregations because it is better control, things are closer to citizens and citizens than if they are in one center. And some tasks and projects are one that goes beyond the boundaries of the municipalities, so it makes sense to save them easier and better in a larger unit, and this is the province. For example, the construction of certain roads that take place in the territory of several municipalities. So far, this has been quite dependent on the municipality itself, and then everything at the implementation level has been happening in Ljubljana, so the projects have been preparing, including decisions, what and when will be done when the provinces are responsible for this, it will certainly not happen that the 5-km road will only be arranged in one part, i.e. in a 1km radius. Since a good master will always think differently, the project costs once if you make it for a mile or a mile [5 km]. And once you've got machines in that area, arranged operations, workers and so on, it probably makes sense for you to do the whole thing, not the pieces. If we are such a similar system and I believe that we are on the right track to make such a system, we will transfer some of the powers, money and personnel from the ministries, from the state level, from Ljubljana to Dolenjska, to Koroška, Notranjska. Therefore, it is important that we think carefully about what tasks we want to leave to the congregations or what tasks could be better carried out at congregation level. Some of you have pointed out that, at the same time as we deal with the first three laws, we should also deal with the number of congregations and the seats and the congregations. Perhaps that is why previous attempts failed because we were already at first, so perhaps the most important law for some has been stopped. Therefore, in my view, it is better that we now do things differently, so that we first decide what tasks the provinces should perform, what we will impose on the provinces, and we will clear that up immediately or in this introductory part. Because if we already knew - or at the time we were talking - about the seats and areas of the provinces, we could calculate where there would be a center, what would we move somewhere, what would be worth more, and so on. And then we'd round the borders of the provinces, which is bad. I'm sure that's why you didn't come in the past periods any longer than talking about how many landscapes and where we're going to have them. This unfinished story must not be a political one or another calculation of who can get more and where. If we do not really believe that the landscapes bring new quality, it is wrong and we have done things again at the wrong end. This government and this coalition do not calculate, but believe that the provinces bring new quality, that this new arrangement will bring development, progress, reduce developmental backlogs and that is why it must be done. That is why he does not first deal with where and how and who he will have, but what we want with the provinces, and we will also set them up with these laws that we deal with. The introduction of the provinces, I am sure it will bring new dynamics and faster development, money will be more rationally spent in the municipalities, control will be better, because today you could not see an official at the Transport Ministry just every day, your neighbor or your extremity can see very quickly. The mayors and those who have or have worked in the municipalities know this when someone "knocks on your sleeve" on each sleeve for everything that belongs to the jurisdiction or not to the congregations. It will be better to plan the implementation of joint projects of each province. Funds are also being transferred, which is important. And I am sure that these funds will be spent better and that projects will be completed more quickly. We may not have figured out the best way to get our staff, and it happened to us that we employed a lot of staff, while those municipalities, when I refer to our case, the Municipality of Ljubljana or Vič-Rudnik did not forgive or contribute any of their workers to any of the new municipalities, with rare exceptions, but mostly everyone else in the Municipality of Ljubljana, while small municipalities were hiring for a new one. That is why it seems important to me that, within the Ministry and even at this stage, there is an expert commission to look at which personnel and how we can move them so that we can properly divide the tasks and use what we already have and that there will be no need for additional employment. I am convinced that none of the municipalities where I live or live next door no longer wants to go to the former Ljubljana-Vič-Rudnik municipality, because too many projects and too many things have been done since we were independent. And as I said, many have dealt with basic things that Ljubljana has long since done, and they have done and are moving very quickly today, not to say that in some areas they may have done even more than Ljubljana. Last time, the President of the Government in Koroška said that the headquarters of Koroška will be in one of the cities in Koroška or in Dolenjska, not anymore in Ljubljana. And that is the point, Korosci, Dolenci, the representatives of the province, who will be elected by the citizens, will decide what is their priority, what they want to settle and where they want to develop. The introduction of the landscapes will, in my view, bring about rapid progress and the realization of plans that have waited many times for better times for a long time. Now is the time for this, and thus the less developed regions will get closer to the most developed ones, and Slovenia as a whole will be even more successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u98	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Mr. Minister, Dr. Zhagar with the team, honourable Members, honourable Members! Before Slovenia is a great new task - the establishment of landscapes. It is not because of the establishment of some new institutions, but because this new structure must mean decentralisation of Slovenia and better regional development. I do not see the basic priority of the provincial administration in how it will ensure that citizens can easily issue a new ID card, or a new passport, or turn on a green light for some intervention into space. These are services that must be self-sustaining. I see the priority of the provincial administration in that it must be a development generator. I am certainly in favour of establishing landscapes in Slovenia, but we must all be aware that this can also bring problems and traps, if the solution is not well thought out and properly implemented. Slovenia is a unique country, a unique country and a unique and unique solution that will divide Slovenia or, better, connect it to the provinces. However, I would like to point out that we need to be really delicate and exact when we continue to design solutions. It will be the arithmetic of small numbers, but they will have to produce an impressive result. Therefore, the solution cannot be copied from the websites or from which other European countries. In Novi Slovenija we have even dedicated this issue to a special meeting of the party's world, which gave precise guidelines for the formation of the landscapes, which my colleague Martin Mikolić described and presented and will not repeat. From 1 January this year we are part of the euro area. This is not only a privilege, but also an obligation. It will continue to be necessary to ensure a stable public financial situation, including with the provinces. At present, we are on a very good path in Slovenia, with the fact that we are aware of the long-term problems that we have as a result of population ageing as well as most European countries. The Constitution provides in Article 143, paragraph 3, that the State shall transfer to the provinces by law the performance of individual tasks under national jurisdiction and shall provide them with the necessary financial resources to do so. As with the Government and the National Assembly, we are therefore obliged to ensure that funds are transferred by transferring tasks from the state to the provincial level. It will be necessary to specify exactly what tasks will be carried out at the regional level, which means that the state level will be burdened, both working and financial resources. However, I believe that it is necessary to ensure a neutral transfer of tasks from one level to another, which will not increase overall public expenditure or expenditure of the central, regional and municipal levels of the country. Otherwise, we can increase public spending, which is certainly not and cannot be our goal. There are ideas that some of the new tasks laid down in the laws would be carried out in the provinces, but so far they have not been carried out. I oppose such solutions, because this can really mean a huge increase in public spending. Given that we do not yet have precise financial assessments or the effects of the law, it is very difficult to decide which tax resources or resources could be derogated from to finance delegated tasks. In this decision, we will also rely on the experience of other European countries that know the landscapes or the regional level of public finances. However, I do not think it is that important which tax resources will be deducted from the provinces, but above all it is necessary to provide a stable source of funding for the implementation of the tasks transferred. The financing of the provinces should be ensured in accordance with the principles of public financing and the provisions of the law governing public finances and in accordance with the spirit of the constitutional provision that the State must provide the province with funds in proportion to the type and extent of the tasks delegated. Funding should be provided in accordance with the principle of transparency, efficiency and efficiency and financial optimisation of public funding management. We still have a lot of work to do, even on vacation. In the field, we get Members to ask how certain services will be implemented by the provinces, and I want these answers to be received as soon as possible. It is said that we will somehow simulate what the situation will be, say, on July 13, 2011. Above all, I think we need to understand the concept of landscapes. I remember the first local elections when we elected the mayor and the municipal council, but for a few months, maybe a year, we had no idea what to do with this congregation right now. Surely it will also take some time for the provinces to come to life and actually produce the results we want. Today, in some way, I have called on Pomurce to cooperate in the design of healthy and smart solutions. I also estimate that because, unfortunately, we have not been able to carry out a single regional project in the previous Pomur statistical region, because it is perfectly normal for mayors who logically think mayorally to sit in the world of the region. The money they receive will, of course, be located in municipal projects for another kilometer of sidewalk or road or sewerage and so on. That makes perfect sense. However, it would not be that common energy, that common will, to provide some means in fact for the landscape project. For example, the pomor water supply. Of course, I wish the entire ministerial team great luck in finding optimal solutions, but I also think and guarantee that the New Slovenia Group will participate constructively in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u99	Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you. Nor will I repeat those things that I mentioned in the presentation of our position. I would mention, however, that I myself was in the Czech Republic as part of a visit to our committee in three Czech provinces. And it is true that the Czech Republic introduced the provinces in 2000, and they themselves have somehow told us that the provinces were somehow a political decision in Parliament, which we all have to admit to ourselves perfectly logically. This is certainly a political decision, what Parliament is deciding on. Let me also mention this, as my fellow Member Posedel earlier mentioned, that, in fact, after seven years, they are not satisfied with the introduction of the provinces. At least on my part, it was not difficult to conclude why they were dissatisfied. And I want to say this. They didn't give the provinces the powers they were supposed to give them. They were not given orders, so they did not fully decentralisation in the first place, and they did not give them funding in the second place. At the same time, with the introduction of the provinces, it is true that they hired 300 people in that smallest province and the largest 600 people. And I want to say here today that this is definitely a school for us. I would not want this government or this National Assembly to support such solutions as would be similar to what the Czechs have done. For me, it is still a matter of first importance for the transfer of tasks to the provinces. The transfer of all those tasks so that the provinces can indeed carry out a coherent one, if I can now say that in the provinces it will be true or that we will then feel the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia a coherent regional development. I think that this is most important and I know that this is not even theoretically possible, but it is even less practical that today, when we discuss this law, all ministers sit here because I know that there were a lot of good constructive guidelines, what should be done, what tasks should be carried out in the provinces. Not with the aim of shaking down the powers of which they will have to give up, but with the aim of really giving up the various ministries of the field, which I firmly believe will be far more successful in the provinces. I believe that it is not only from the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development that this part of the adoption of the law is going to be a real law or, I would say, a whole package of legislation is also a good one, but it depends on each individual department. Thus, if this is to be successfully agreed, then I do not see any obstacles to the satisfaction of all those municipalities in this province performing their tasks at regional or provincial level. I don't think it's important what one of the predecessors said about fiscal decentralisation that was supposed to be by the year, I mean 1990 or when they were so-called municipal, if I may say so. It is not essential now whether we are going to go through this provincial legislation with fiscal decentralisation, I think the most important thing is that we go to carry out the financial decentralisation or decentralisation of the state budget. That's the point. And if we also do this, this means that individual areas in Slovenia will develop more quickly towards those that are already large in terms of development long before those that are underdeveloped. Because if fiscal decentralisation, as mentioned above, was indeed in this sense done in terms of coherent regional development, it is not clear to me today why some regions, if I may say so now, are so captivated after 15 years or after 20 years for other highly developed areas. I think that's very important, too, which is what I wanted to say. I would conclude by concluding that it is very important that which powers, whose tasks we will transfer from individual ministries to the provinces, and that the ministries will be able to give up certain tasks, precisely in order to determine for themselves whether, at the end of the day, the whole government will be able to determine whether these are the tasks that will have to be carried out in the provinces, precisely in order to make the recovery better, in order to have a greater impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, let me draw attention to the shortcomings in this law, namely that it is not a respected decision of the Constitutional Court which was adopted at that time and it is necessary to introduce it into law. This is in the composition of the electoral commissions, the electoral committees and this decision also refers to post voting, the determination of fair voting by post. This will be necessary until the second reading of the law enters into this law in order to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. That's the first warning, Mr. Secretary. And another flaw, if we're talking about the law on elections to the provinces, is about gender parity, which my colleague mag warned me about. Majda Potter. We have a gender balance in article 51, we have 40% mentioned in paragraph 2 of this article, and we also have a record of how it is decided that only three of them are on the candidate list, and then, of course, Article 87 follows, which evaluates these 40% for these next first elections and says the quota is 25%. In addition, it essentially deletes the second paragraph of this article, which I mentioned earlier, which is that in the case of three on the list, this second paragraph of this article is not taken into account, which may mean that three of the same sex will be in the first three places, if there are only three - and I will not discuss whether women or men will be involved. And if now in the time that I have left or remained behind to the Group of Social Democrats, I say another thing about the dilemmas that have arisen through the preparation of this law and are now somehow still in the air as regards duality, uniformity, amphibians. It has been agreed or accepted a kind of compromise between Minister Virant and Minister Žagar that we are essentially in favour of a single system with a gradual approach. Now, I don't understand these steps most because, as in a mockery, Minister Virant has sent for coordination or consideration the State Administration Act, which introduces 14 administrative thefts. That's good. Purpose, you could say it's good. 14 administrative thefts, 14 landscapes and later administrative districts are either utopia or they come with the province and become a province. But we now have three levels if this is accepted: the country, the province, the municipality, the local self-government, for example, if we consider the country then, except for the transfer of tasks, and the state, the administrative district and the administrative units. And when we are talking about transferring tasks from administrative units, let's say right now in the area of space to the provinces, and if Mr Virant through the Government and Parliament establish 14 administrative districts, this means that we will have space transferred from administrative units to the provinces and given that we will not move services from users, the users of the building permit will still be looking at the administrative unit, it will be decided on in the province, on the area and also on the subsequent issue of this permit, and we will have an artificial administrative district. Now, too, people will not fully understand this when we try to explain this story. I do not think that this procedure is good to wait with the administrative districts at this time, to stop this project, because the administrative district will also mean that the transfer of powers from administrative units to the provinces will run much slower than if the administrative districts were not, since we will have parallel, a two-tier system at least at the beginning. With regard to the President's election, this is where all the different views of this solution have been shown today. Once again, I say that I am personally, and also in the Group of Members, we are inclined to elect the president of the province in direct elections. We believe that it is necessary to have a president in the provinces with a direct mandate. This president will also talk to the country and must have the power not to use the term, the power. In the event that he will be elected directly, either through or from the provincial council, I fear that this president of the province will mainly deal with having a majority in the provincial council, which will allow him to continue to be president at the next meeting that he will convene. Otherwise, the president will be replaced because the coalition can change and the president and also the provincial council will deal with themselves instead of dealing with matters for which he was established. There is also a danger here, and I agree with this that there might be disagreements between the President of the Council and the provincial council, but this is also with the mayors and the municipal councils, and somehow things are running out. And a package of legislation. I already said in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group that we want, a better expression is required, packaged, simultaneous treatment of all laws. We want a technical, so-called technical law, which is very substantive, which will actually mean transferring tasks from ministries to provinces. This is where the real problem will begin when Minister Žagar will have to face his colleagues from the government and agree on which matters will be transferred to the province. This is going to be a tough bite, because there will be disagreements. However, I would warn and perhaps also ask that you apply or follow the principle of subsidiarity, so that you transfer to the province the tasks that will be closer and better worked or carried out at the provincial level than now within the ministries. And one more thing. I would like to see the province unifying the distribution of various services. To find all the services distributed in 14 different regions within the province and to ensure better coordination in this way, let me mention only inspection services for example.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the Minister for Cooperation! After almost a decade of debate on the three laws, I find that most of the debaters have actually discussed the fourth law, which is not at all in the debate today, with the exception of Mr Kontić, which has not touched on it in one word. I could say this, I expected that in today's debate a number of problems related to these three laws that are under discussion today will be clarified and that the views will be more uniform so that the drafter could prepare the laws thoroughly so that they would not have to be corrected by amendments. I am surprised by the debate of some of the debaters, who went in terms of discussing whether the province's division of Slovenia is even meaningful. This is what we decided in this National Assembly when we changed the Constitution last year when we changed three articles of the Constitution and thus actually made it possible and established that this is necessary in Slovenia. However, if we compare the discussions in the part where some express so much scepticism about the eligibility of the provinces, it is only necessary to return to 1995 when the new congregations were formed and when the debate was held in the National Assembly, and especially by means of public information, how many municipalities will be the first year, how many others, and how many fourths and all the following years could be rejoined back to the mother municipalities. That's how this black script is sorry or, fortunately, it didn't come true. However, it should be said that if this Government or subsequent governments went in terms of changing the terms of the Land Financing Act in this direction, as it was done in 1998 under the Community Financing Act, the conditions were so tightened that, in fact, after 1998, a large number of small municipalities from a financial point of view were questionable. These funding conditions of the municipalities were tightened until 2005, when the government first intervened in the principle of funding the municipalities, thus allowing for a significantly higher standard and thereby fostering some appetites after the establishment of new municipalities. Today's debate has also raised quite an issue about how by transferring powers and by transferring employees from ministries to regional level. See, one of today's interlocutors has done a good analysis of how many percent of people are actually transported daily, migrate to Ljubljana to work. In the event of the establishment of the provinces, this migration will take place in a slightly different direction, that is to say, another will be taken from Ljubljana to Celje or Maribor or also to Mursko Sobota to work, as they do today from there to Ljubljana. I don't see any dilemma in this, and I don't think it's any big deal, either for the employees or for those who have a dilemma about it today. However, there is a dilemma about costs or embezzlement in the event of such regional distribution. I think, despite the fact that the government and the coalition assumes that the costs of the operation of the regions will not encourage and engage additional public funds, I personally think that 5 to 10% of the increase in these funds is a reality and that it will be a real success if the stimulus is reflected in the frameworks between 5% and 10%. Given that I think that this is also one of the last projects that is still to be implemented in Slovenia in the direction of the final image of Slovenia, I think that this National Assembly has a unique opportunity to record itself in history when the regionalisation project in Slovenia will be completed. Today's debate shows that we can be very optimistic and that we can expect the adoption of these laws and the realization of them in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I think I owe, probably, a few answers first, although perhaps I could also say that in some parts I will repeat myself, because in some ways it can be quite logical in a 10-hour debate to ask similar questions, but I still think that these data are important. As far as the law is concerned. In front of you is this package, which is substantively, I repeat, we are already preparing this technical law, these coordinations are taking place across the various departments, and in these coordinations there is a similar dilemma on many issues, as well as here between you at the professional level. We, in the part where laws are in the process at this point, are already in coordination, but we are harmonising these laws within the meaning of provincial legislation. Because this package has been adopted and all the other laws adopted behind this package, I fear that in the Government, they must also be aligned with this work, as is done in this order. On the other hand, this package is open 50 and several laws that need to be harmonised and corrected by a single law. It is unlikely that this will be rational and even possible, if it means, of course, the operationalization of this basic content package, although I stress once again, the content of the delegation of tasks down, along with the financial resources and with the administrative structures, are already covered in this package quite precisely. It is true, however, that this amendment to the sectoral legislation constitutes an upgrade to this work and this content is also financially evaluated and this content is covered by the proposal for regionalisation, which is present. With regard to once again administrative units, the only reasonable system in the medium term is a single one, even with a relatively higher number of expected provinces. Progress is foreseen and tasks related to the development functions of future provinces are transferred to implementation as soon as they are established. This does not mean that physically, I repeat, these things would now move from individual areas to the centers. Far from it. I think that we have incorporated into the law itself the requirement that the accessibility and quality of services should be equal or better, I think that the landscapes can also guarantee this. Finally, it also assumes responsibility for its own development in this respect, including responsibility for the quality of such services, although the umbrella legislation is still under the influence of individual ministries. And here I see no problems, on the contrary, I believe that this quality of services will be even better. This also practically means that, in all cases, even in Trebnje, they will still go to the same location after the documents they receive at the moment in the administrative unit, because there will still be a seat of this window for the issuance of these documents. And that's particularly busy. As regards this communication within this network organisation of the institutions of each province. I don't see any particular problems here, especially with the development of information technology. And what about this so-called centralisation? Of course, this landscape centralisation - the experience is such, for example, in some other cases, also as regards administrative institutions, that it has occurred in the past in the quietness of any migration. I think that now that the landscapes have remained these movements in such a quiet way are in fact impossible. They will have to be "represented" to the public and then decisions can be made in the province. As far as all these regional rationalisations are concerned, however, two mechanisms are already being put in place or will be incorporated into the legal system itself. The first is the Council of the Congregations. The Council of the municipalities is that corrective body which will alert the provincial council to those decisions that are detrimental to areas that are detrimental to the municipality and in this sense the whole area. The other correction mechanism or other mechanism, which is important, is linked to electoral units which must ensure uniform representation in the regional councils. The mayors don't sit in the provincial councils. However, I am sure that, like the members of the National Assembly or the municipal councils, they will already know how to take care of this and will also take on this responsibility, so that this internal development will go easier and faster. Personally, I see only a positive aspect here. Finally, these municipal councils will also take full political responsibility as regards internal development mechanisms. As regards the issues related to the establishment of the landscapes, this proposal is in the process. I would like to point out once again that we have addressed this starting proposal to the developing statistical regions, including the names that these regions had, with the knowledge that there will be changes through public debate, with a view to this, both as regards names and as regards the movements of individual municipalities, particularly those border areas. I believe that these movements will go in some cohesive direction, so that the landscapes will be rounded up from the point of view of the population, so that we can get close to this average. Personally, I see no reason especially where we have coordinated proposals from the ground, I know that it will never be possible to have fully coordinated proposals, but that we do not respect the opinion and wishes of the population in a particular environment. I am also sure that you will also respect the National Assembly when it comes to making decisions. However, it will be necessary to decide by a two-thirds majority. And the two-thirds majority is, in my opinion, a great guarantee that there can be those, within the given framework, given options, optimal solutions, because a very broad consensus is needed. And also with regard to parallels in this sense with the municipalities, I do not think these things can be directly compared in terms of fragmentation and even these matters. We know that congregations are established by a common majority, a two-thirds majority is needed here, and this is practically the majority needed to change the Constitution if we are realistic. And for this reason, it is probably not necessary to write these provisions into the Constitution. Now, as far as funding is concerned. I think the question was also from this work. The funding system is based on the existing tax system, based on what we want to achieve with the provinces; we want to achieve a development mechanism, but of course we also need to make sure that the provinces are currently carrying out those tasks ahead of them that we are moving down and I must say that these activities will take place in terms of preparation - i.e. administrative, including all the issues related in terms of jobs - next year if we succeed in this year's adoption of all this legislation. Thus, because of this aspect, the matter is timed so that the technical tasks for the second year are ready and will be sufficient time to be able to go into the landscape and that those institutions operating will work in a way that there will be no problems, there can certainly be, this is to be expected when some new things are being put in place, but nevertheless that the solutions will go in this direction so that these problems will be as small as possible and that citizens and citizens in particular will not feel this in their services. Of course, in the next stages, things will also be reflected in essential development functions. This means the urgent reallocation of a certain part of the funds through the capture system, both through the system of capture of appropriate spending and, on the other hand, through the system of financing development investment tasks that we provide through the allocated share of the income of legal persons. There is also a need for these corrections, the mechanism is that we provide all the provinces with a 100% average of this tax and that the maximum surplus can be that where these funds are significantly higher - to 150% due to this capture specification. In this respect, the provinces are also partly stimulated. Otherwise, at this final work, I might stress once again that if we want to take the next step in the development of Slovenia not only in polycentric development within the meaning of more coherent regional development, this is one of the important priorities, but also in the development of Slovenia, I am convinced that the provinces to all the middles, including those that at the moment most deviate in the development sense, bring additional development dynamics, bring further comparisons, bring some kind of competitiveness, and these are all the parameters that reflect then in that the development will run faster. Such development is not at the expense of one another; it is true that, in this development context, a little more aid for faster development is offered to the environment that is also most needed; also in terms of all solutions through the European Charter on Local Self-Government, where there is not only the principle of subsidiarity, but also the principle of solidarity and modern democracy, which is highlighted. On the other hand, the provinces do not mean that services are approaching people. From this title, they mean significantly more efficient use of resources similar to that of municipalities, and I see no reason why we would not try this option at this second level of local government. And I'm sure this will also give us an additional development mechanism. And last but not least, the provinces mean autonomous decision-making on priorities, for example, in the field of investment. Perhaps a number of problems in the road area, perhaps in the area of hospitals, might have been solved on what I know, and even more quickly, in secondary schools. And the provinces also contribute indirectly in terms of development in terms of direction in particular areas; for example, to the orientation of secondary education, to those professions that we need more, and to the orientation through the system of active employment policies that are transferred to those professions that need a particular area more. And we could probably list it in that sense. I therefore stress that the establishment of landscapes is necessary for rapid development. And even from today's debate, I have also taken this into account, which is probably what we all agree on. And I believe that this political consensus, which was reached at the time of the adoption of amendments to the Constitution, which now allows for a faster implementation of this process, will be maintained and that this political effort will be achieved by all together, so that we will also be able to adopt appropriate compromises, probably, and appropriate solutions in this sense that an entire package of legislation will be approved, which also puts the provinces practically into their lives. And, of course, I believe that this National Assembly will also stick to this kind of moral commitment that it has undertaken when it confirmed the change of the constitution from the knowledge that Slovenia needs faster development. All the issues that are emerging, all the dilemmas that are still emerging at this time, we will try to study them as much as possible and we will try them, as we have tried so far, in real terms, in real terms, to take into account the further process of drafting legislation and we are open to all comments. However, I would point out that all these comments must have some real basis, that they must be within the scope of the options available, that they must take into account the situation we have, and that we probably cannot just change some things. For example, the issues related to the financing system itself are likely to interfere with the entire tax system, and we are probably not going to change this at this point, but we are going from this starting point. And in this sense, once again, we are open to all these comments. But our desire is, and it is probably the common desire of all of us who are gathered here today, but also of the government, to bring this project in a direction that will really give the right results, that we will prepare the best possible quality legislation at this time, and especially because we are not just setting up this project for tomorrow, but probably for some longer period of time, and by establishing the landscape we are thoroughly interfering with the way Slovenia manages it in the future, of course in a positive sense. Of course, I can assure you once again that we will try what we will get at this time on the table, but within the given framework, to the greatest extent possible, to be taken into account. Then we will be able to draw up real quality legislation. So much possible right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the application. Please log in to anyone you want to discuss. You've got five minutes. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. Of course, I am glad that we finally have provincial legislation ahead of us. The Ministry has prepared this legislation very well, and it had to be "stressed" in coordination a little later, but despite the fact that we are always not and will never be satisfied with all the solutions, yet globally, it is the right path. In fact, I am thinking this: given today's 10-hour debate, it may not be too much if, in this work, I also direct a quicker way of resolving or reaching the conclusion of this legislation, especially because of the fact that the content of individual laws is actually more affected in the next debates, but not why we do not yet have a law on the establishment of landscapes, why we do not yet have a law on transposition, in view of the fact that, after 13 years, on Friday, we are adopting - and we will adopt, I believe - these three laws, so that at least by 13 September of this year, we have two remaining laws, so that we can then go into the package of all five laws in the next second reading. And in this way I will also satisfy what has been said today: how will this somehow be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But Fridays are closed, but this is like the country's election sign and the degree of democracy, and the degree of democracy is also the transfer of decision-making from the state to the regional and local level. [[...]] While we are still far behind at local level, whether we decide or decide, citizens and citizens, somewhere within 5% of GDP, we will now, with regional legislation, decide about 12 to 15% of GDP there. However, if we look at more developed and democratic countries, we can see that comparisons show that, with a higher degree of democracy and with more coherent regional development, they decide on a significantly higher part of GDP, from 20, 25 and even 30% of the total GDP throughout the country. And in view of the transpositions or proposals of the Lands Act, which is finally coordinated in the so-called single system with some time delay, however, is a step in the right direction. However, if the ministry succeeds or succeeds - and I have no doubt that they are good, working and capable, because they also have experience in this area - we will be able to do so with the amendments as well as with the electoral law, as it has been said today, that the President of the Council of the Region will now be directly elected under this legislation, perhaps even harmonising for a better solution and bringing democracy as much as possible through this regional legislation to our citizens and citizens. They deserve it, and that's our duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with the team! However, I would like to add something small in this debate to those considerations which are linked to what should actually lead to the formation of the landscapes, and to the initial debate by Dr Gantar, who pointed out exactly what criteria must be that the landscape must grow from people, not from politics, to me. And it is no coincidence, therefore, that the question of the establishment of the province's seat or the question of naming the province for people is of such importance and it really seems to me to be important because it is an identification point for the province that is emerging. The problem is, as some have pointed out, that some designations have historical grounds, some are now geographically different from those once used in history, and then there is a specific division and use of the individual name. All of this needs to be taken into account, but it seems essential to me that the landscapes should live in such a spirit that the willingness and expectations are met, at least as far as, say, the province in which I will live, I hope, I see that they grow out of it. This term "Stajerska" has several dimensions also because of those of whom Dr. Gantar spoke about the provinces that are across the border, beyond the national borders of our country. And when I'm at Maribor, of course, another question is important to me. Several mandates ago, due to these constant tensions between Maribor and between Ljubljana, the question of connection and contacts between Maribor, not only to Graz, about which there was already talk, but also to Zagreb. And if the European Union is to expand, then the issue of the Schengen border will be asked differently and also the question of integration in any other way, probably even to Monoster and to which other place our province will have to go, let's say, any link as an equal partner in cross-border cooperation. But what I think about these landscapes, which we are now talking about and their size, is, of course, possible to attach to those who require professional criteria. And perhaps we are the ones who come from such solid landscape centers, because we have the ability to count on becoming a provincial center, a much easier position than anyone else. I remember that in the previous term we spoke 3 universities, 3 dioceses, 3 provinces, while the diocese in Slovenia created more, universities also had a larger number planned for development programmes, but I have to say that there should be thinking about the number of landscapes rationally, not only politically, but so that the provinces could perform qualitatively those functions that also raise a number of questions to people. You mentioned the high school network, the health network and everything. True, small congregations were able to pave roads, provide water supply, telephone, and much more, but when you go to those social functions, the matter is very different. Once again, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you why you decided in the transitional provisions to put yourself at the head of the same options or at least the same representation as you did for elections to the European Parliament for the first time, there was no delay in this, and I do not see that this delay should be set because there is no rational reason for not taking equal representation into account for the first time in the province.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I too will repeat the question already raised by my colleague Kontic. I would like to know why the Government has not prepared in the Regional Elections Act articles specifically relating to the vote by post and to the composition of electoral committees and electoral committees, which would be formal in accordance with the two judgments of the Constitutional Court issued this year, before the text of this Act came to the National Assembly. It is said that the Government had sufficient time to supplement these articles and align them with the sentence and also the explanation of the Constitutional Court’s judgment. I believe that no legislation prepared after the Constitutional Court has been passed or issued should come to the National Assembly with such shortcomings as this has come. There'd probably be something else, but I think at least what's, what's completely fresh, would be the time to take this into account. Reasons, as this will be arranged in the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, or perhaps in elections for the President of the State, where it should also be arranged and probably before the elections this fall, I think they are "hair drawn" and I would therefore ask you to answer us, however, what you will do at the time of the second reading of this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you. Does anyone object to giving the minister five minutes? Nobody. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I'll try to answer these two questions. As far as this second question is concerned, I see no problem in not settling this. According to my behavior, our legislation was just conflicting because it was already in government procedure. As far as this part is concerned, I see no problem in not being able to resolve this through the follow-up procedure. With regard to your question about the way elections are conducted in terms of equal opportunities, I must say that we have decided on solutions that are identical to those in the National Assembly, according to my behaviour. Because elections are also planned simultaneously and there is, I think the transitional period is identical. This was the reason at this point in time for this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposals for conclusions that bills are suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're going to the last one, 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on criminal procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with Mr Davorin Terčon, the first-signed. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The new law proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed Davorin Terchoon amends in essence only one article of the Criminal Procedure Act or proposes to amend one article. 149.b Article was added to the 2004 novelty criminal procedure and regulated and regulated in one place and laid down the conditions for the lawful acquisition of data on participants, circumstances and facts of telecommunications traffic, such as the number or other form of identification of telecommunications and telecommunications users, the type, date, time and duration of the call or connection, and the quantity of data transferred. The proposal to amend the law seeks to raise the evidentiary standard on grounds of suspicion of reasonable grounds of suspicion. It also restricts the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes to those for which a minimum of 5 years of imprisonment is at risk, or the offences prescribed by an article that lays down the conditions for the determination of a covert surveillance measure. It is true that the evidentiary standard for prosecution in the current law has been set lower, but the tightening of the scope of possible prosecution would result in a large and wide field of investigation of offences or perpetrators. All offences which can be detected by means of the control of an electronic communications network are subject to a lower penalty than 5 years in prison, so that the exclusion would be even greater. Procedural legislation is a very sensitive thing in criminal law; small errors can cause the process to stop or the matter to eventually fall into the water. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is too often the change in criminal proceedings in articles which are of primary importance for the forecasting process is not good and may be harmful at the end stage. Inadvertent changes can also lead to unpredictable consequences, so we will support the decision of the home working body that the proposal for a law proposed by the Member is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u118	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. In 2004, the National Assembly, in the Criminal Procedure Act of 149a, lays down the covert measures governed by Article 49 of the Police Act. The amendment also adopted a new 149.b Article, which regulated and laid down the conditions for the lawful acquisition of data on participants, circumstances and other transport facts in electronic communications. This is about the order number, the type, the date, the time and the duration of the call. The transmission of such data shall be ordered by the investigating judge on a proposal from the State Prosecutor. This area is also governed by Directive 2006/24, which imposes an obligation on electronic communications operators to keep and excludes storage of the content of communications. The Directive is intended to ensure the availability of data for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting and prosecuting serious crimes, and the way in which data are accessed must be defined by national legislation. The rapporteurs and Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members are convinced that the amendment to the 2004 Criminal Procedure Act is not in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, in particular Article 149.b, which lays down the conditions for obtaining data on electronic communications. This article allows the operator to provide information to the police about participants and other data on electronic communications traffic in relation to all criminal offences, which appears to the applicant to be an extensive solution for interfering with communication privacy. The applicant wishes to amend this Article in order to ensure that data on traffic on the electronic network can only be obtained where there are reasonable grounds for believing that a crime has been committed and only in cases where they are necessary for the prosecution of serious offences or offences for which five or more years have been prescribed by law. In doing so, it is worth stressing that a condition for the initiation of criminal proceedings is always warranted for suspicion and that all permitted procedures and acts must then be used to clarify the alleged criminal offence. Therefore, the reasonable suspicion is that it is always required in such procedures and it would make sense by law to determine in which cases it would make sense to use electronic communications traffic data. In today's era, mobile phone records are extremely important and have decisive evidence power in certain cases, and in a large number of cases, these are the data that help clarify what actually happened in the criminal procedure. In addition, many crimes are unknown to the extent to which they have been committed and whether they are worse or not, until traffic in electronic communications is also verified. In particular, this method has led many times to the finding of a worse crime or crime involving many actors. The evidentiary power of electronic communications in today’s world is undeniable. The narrowing of the application of this measure would in practice mean that there would be many crimes which cannot be investigated without the application of this measure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that in this case it is not a matter of interference with human rights, as it is only a matter of transport and not the content of transport in electronic communications, which, in certain crimes, have extraordinary evidentiary power. Many crimes turn out to be worse only after this asset has been used when the circumstances of the act themselves are clarified. For these reasons, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party have decided not to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u120	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This and the previous session are always listening to the same, they know a similar story. Non-aligned Members propose some legislative changes, the Law on Electronic Communications, then the Law on Parliamentary Control of the Soviet Union and similar things, and some of the other things we might recall with which we are trying to make amendments to these laws to this country, this Parliament must remind itself that, in fact, when it legitimizes certain interventions into human rights and freedoms, it must maintain the right measure and understanding. And again and again these calls in our marriage proposals have been rejected and again and again the Slovenian Parliament in its majority law and the Government aside, we could say disproportionate measures in relation to the goals we all want to achieve together. This was the Law on Electronic Communications and this will obviously also happen with the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. What do we want? We want article 149.b of the law to be amended so that the information on electronic transport must be based on suspicion and must be for a criminal offence for which more than five years have been prescribed or those offences are taxed in this article of the law. The Directive of the European Union, referred to earlier, also refers to the storage of data and the use of such data, transport, only for serious crimes. I would like to remind you that the confidentiality of electronic communications and even communications, written secrecy and so forth, is an extremely highly valued freedom in our constitution. Exquisitely high. In fact, the complex telecommunications traffic of mobile operators, fixed operators, the Internet and other network services is linked to the assumption of confidentiality of communications. If what we hear is happening today that more and more people no longer trust mobile connections and fixed connections and others, the Internet, e-mails, etc., then they will gradually start opening other communication channels, and this will contribute in the long term or in the medium term and will also cause damage to these operators. Today, no one calls from a cell phone if they have any more subtle, personal, or other news to report. People are not doing this anymore or ever less. Ask yourself why. And this has to stop once, we have to put things on the table so that the effective control and use of traffic data to prosecute serious crimes will be enabled, of course, to be determined on the basis of the Supreme Court order, but we must not go into the position that has already been presented today, so that we can use traffic data in advance somehow, so to speak, detect the scope of an event, the scale of this event, etc. No! No! The event must be detected by other methods and then traffic data shall be used or possibly in sharper form, including listening or other interference in human freedoms. I would point out once again that the way in which traffic data are used or can be used for criminal proceedings is more acute than that provided for by the Directive of the European Union, that we have taken the maximum possible time limit provided for in the data storage provided for in the Directive of the European Union, and that in fact we always want to go to the most extreme, most radical form of action that the Directives may allow, but only rarely applied in individual Member States. I do not think this is good for the legal nature of the Slovenian state. Thank you very much. Of course, we will object to the conclusion of the parent working body, as you may have guessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. The applicant with a novelty in a single member seeks to amend the application of measures under the Criminal Procedure Act, which has been fully formulated with more or less today in the previous term. According to our assessment, the amendment proposal is unfounded because we are convinced of the negative consequences of the performance of the work of the competent authorities in relation to the detection and prosecution of criminal offences, which would definitely be affected by the proposed marriage of a series of criminal offences to detect and prosecute, which would allow for the use of a traffic data acquisition measure in electronic communications. It is also a fact that many crimes are continued, repeated and accompanied by other criminal activities and the success of disclosures can have a positive impact on the effective prosecution of other serious offences. We need to be clear about the next. Precisely defined and equipped offences, which also fall within the scope of prosecutions which involve a higher level of danger or threat, are subject to the provision of the possibility to apply measures, i.e. covert measures where there is a significantly greater interference with the privacy of the suspect. However, in the case of the measures referred to in Article 149.b, the measure is also milder from the point of view of interference with privacy. It is therefore necessary to take into account, in accordance with the principles of criminal law, the clear distinctions between the intensity of the measures and thus the interference with privacy in view of the gravity of the crime. The proposed narrowing of the criminal cycle for action under 149.b would therefore have a negative impact on the resolution of criminal cases. In our Group of Members, we do not believe that we should allow this to happen, so we will support the proposal of the Labour Body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues, colleagues! We do not support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, because we do not believe that this is a matter for harmonisation under the Directive of the European Union. The Directive of the European Union referred to by the proposers does not lay down offences which may result in the monitoring and retrieval of data from the electronic communications network for the purposes of criminal proceedings. The Directive only refers to worse crimes and the definition of these worse crimes is left to the internal laws of the Member States. In our legislation, we have so prescribed that there are worse offences for which, for the purposes of criminal proceedings, a decision may be made to control individual electronic communications, that these are all offences whose offences are prosecuted under official responsibility, if there are grounds for suspicion that it has been committed, committed or organised. This provision is now in full compliance with the European Directive on which the proposers refer. While the European Directive would also harmonise an amended provision, as proposed by the proponents, but the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that it would not be good if too narrowed down the scope for the use of such covert investigation measures, since, in individual cases, criminal offences, where it is not possible to track down the perpetrators in any other way, could be prevented from being prosecuted. It would certainly not be good for society to be able to commit certain crimes for which the risked prison sentence is less than five years, but nevertheless to commit serious crimes that are prosecuted under official responsibility, in order to remain undisclosed and unpunished. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we do not agree that the current definition in itself means excessive use of wiretaps and control over electronic communications. The use of such a covert investigation measure is still highly restrictive, only after the investigating judge has ordered the reasoned proposal of the State Prosecutor. Both the proposal for such control and the order must be reasoned and justified on the grounds and the circumstances leading to the application of the measure. Only if all of this is ensured and relevant data enabling effective prosecution cannot be obtained in any other way can such a measure then be ordered and implemented. Therefore, as it is said, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the proposed law of the Group of Members and we agree with the proposal of the home labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support the proposal of the Group of Non-Aligned Members in the Group of Social Democrats. Moreover, we believe that the Government itself should come to the conclusion that such a change in the Criminal Procedure Act is necessary and should propose it in due time. One reason for amending 149.a is based on the relevant directive approved by the European Parliament in March 2006, two years later than the date of application of Article 149.a and 149.b of the Criminal Procedure Act, which was done by the National Assembly on the basis of an appropriate decision of the Constitutional Court. However, the second suggestion or reason is that the practice has shown that the provision of Article 149.b in the first paragraph of Article 149.b is too loose or gives rise to an overly elastic interpretation, especially if, for example, the State Prosecutor or the investigating judge specifically favours such an interpretation. By the way, let me remind you of a kind of affair that we witnessed before the recent time when the Strojans were secretly followed and also bugged, and they did not comply with the relevant requirements set out in the Criminal Procedure Act. The only thing we agree with in the Government's opinion is that often amending the law on criminal procedure, and also criminal law, is inappropriate and has a number of negative consequences. However, how many times in this mandate we have been precisely in the area covered by the Ministry of Justice, we have witnessed the conduct that is contrary to this government position. We therefore support a proposal that will specify the condition that this measure can only be implemented if there are legitimate grounds for suspicion and therefore not only for some imaginary reasons to suspect that it has been committed, carried out or that a crime is being prepared or organised. This is not for all offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, but for those offences which have already been listed in the preceding 149a in the fourth paragraph and which constitute a greater social danger and are threatened with imprisonment for five years or more. In this regard, the opinion of the Government on this proposal by the Group of Unaffiliated Members is unprofessional and ignorant. For the Government considers that the directive restricting the acquisition of data on which it refers to criminal proceedings in relation to serious offences does not require the proper harmonisation of our law on criminal proceedings, because it leaves the directive to the Member States to determine for themselves what these serious offences are and that the Member State can assess, in this case, that Slovenia is in relation to the measure defined by the Directive, all the offences which we are already pursuing by official duty. However, in criminal law theory, certain gradations apply to the degree of danger of certain crimes for the individual, society and the State, as well as to the gradation, where, under which conditions and under which the State may impose certain measures which affect human rights or human privacy in this case. In addition, a very important principle of proportionality must be taken into account; the measure must be proportionate to the objective; it must be strictly necessary, legitimate and justified or justified. We will therefore support this proposal from the Group of Non-Aligned Members in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, which is at 8.15 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u128	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on the provinces. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on landscapes, first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 6. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - first consideration of the draft law on elections in the provinces. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on elections in the provinces, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 10. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 20. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies On Wednesday, 11 July 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments you have tabled. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 24.a. The application for discussion shall be open. Did anyone want to discuss it? No, then there is no debate and we are moving on to a vote on the amendment proposal. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 64 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 24.b. Is there any interest in the debate? No, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 2. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that I have not been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the proposal adopted by the amendments would be inconsistent with the law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, for 63, for 1. [[For the vote]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 6th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Service in the Slovenian Army. On Wednesday, 11 July 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the amended proposal, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u129	Members of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will vote in favour of the law, but with a very bitter taste, because, as this law and as great expectations as it was, they eventually failed because of the inadequacy of the minister and those who worked in law. In fact, for two and a half years, the law walked through the Ministry of Defence's websites, and in one version it was well arranged, and as members of the Slovenian Armed Forces expected, a special provision would be made for work outside the country and arranged in the same way as regulated soldiers and those participating in operations from other countries on the same missions, in the same countries where our soldiers participate. It's gone from the law. It was also proposed that certain specific categories, special professions for special classes in the same bill - be classified by the Ministry of Defence. We have tried through the debate and also with the amendments this week to bring it back - this has failed. You think for yourself, but how can you trust a minister who says, on 19.4. when the law came into procedure: "Because now it was a problem that she had to join the army, for her wages, that they had to negotiate unions. This is nowhere in the world for the military to negotiate with trade unions for their salaries, and even soldiers are nowhere to be seen by public servants, as is the case with us. And this law will set these things straight." Recitals 19.4., by which, with statements, the minister accompanied the law into procedure and promised the soldiers and members of the Slovenian Army that this law would regulate these matters. But we got what we got. It is not possible to repeat in this short time everything that has been debated, but what is essential that you have allowed in Articles 58 and 59 to arrange: for the first time, the status of those who go out of the country in order to be treated separately, such wages, allowances and everything else that the money that is earned outside the country, as well as for other workers who work in Brussels, wherever else, after the mission of the State of Slovenia - for the soldiers it is not possible to do so, for everything else. And because the law has come into the procedure for a long time, we will support it, but this temptation that we have not regulated the status because the minister spoke one, failed the unions and another, the public, and brought another law, will remain and I believe that we will soon upgrade this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you. Is there any other interest in explaining the voice? On behalf of the delegation? Here you go. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u131	We will not oppose the law, as we announced yesterday, because, despite its shortcomings, it brings some improvements that will help to make the species within the Slovenian Army a little better. But we missed the opportunity; we missed the opportunity for actually that problem of the deficit of individual professions to be better addressed, longer-term and the effects will be seen after a while. We would also like the investor to be right to stop this bill from leaking, but we will be asking for the situation in a while, and if there is no better, the government will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you. What's the interest in explaining in his own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. We are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of all members of the assembly should vote in favour of the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 20. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the spring session of the Assembly. I wish all my colleagues a pleasant holiday and to return to the good will, full of optimism and new energy in autumn!
