ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Zvonko Černač, Rudolf Moge, Dr Marko Pavliha and Milan Petek. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A TRADE LEGISLATION IN THE context of a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, please. Mr. Magg has the word. Tomaž Jeršič, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ambassadors and Members, a nice greeting on behalf of the Ministry of Economy and on behalf of the Government! The Trade Act was adopted in 1993 and remained unchanged in the original text, with the exception of the provisions governing the operating time of shops. In view of the above, the Ministry of Economy has drawn up a new proposal for a law and allow me to introduce it briefly. The proposal regulates the activity of trade by still providing a framework for the performance of activities and thus ensuring the protection of employees, consumers and the environment. The proposal for a trade law defines the concept of trade, the manner and conditions for carrying out trade activities and the exercise of control. The main objectives of the law are: to align the operating conditions of all economic operators offering goods to consumers, whether they produced them themselves or purchased them for the purpose of further sale. The next objective is to deregulation of the professions of the seller and the commercial manager, which gives traders the opportunity to choose, irrespective of the direction and level of education, the cadre most suitable for the sale of their products. The proposal for a law removes the obligation to keep records in trade intended primarily to verify the origin of goods and to verify changes in the selling prices of goods in the case of discounts, action sales and sales. The proposed arrangement still requires the trader to provide information on the origin of the goods being sold and the change in the selling price of the goods, only so that it can provide such data from other databases maintained by the trader for other purposes. This eliminates the duality of the management of certain data. In the light of consumer needs and wishes, it is possible for traders to further process or complete products in their own shops and to offer certain types of beverages and foodstuffs to the consumer. The proposal for a law provides that commercial activity may be carried out in or outside shops. Where another activity is also carried out in the store, the space intended for that activity shall be visible from the part of the shop which is intended for commercial activity or, as such, specified in the internal plan of this space. The trader may further process food in his shop, so that it is fit for consumption, but must not allow the consumer to eat or drink in or before the store. Notwithstanding the provisions of this sentence, the trader may, in order to round up his offer without meeting the specific conditions laid down by law, also offer certain types of beverages and foodstuffs to consumers in the store. The amendment is also tabled in the spirit of this Article, and we agree that the substantive nature of the amendment is appropriate, but we do not think it necessary to adopt the amendment because the Value Added Tax Act itself provides for the rates of taxation of these products. The amendment says that we would add a sentence that says: "For the sale of beverages and foodstuffs referred to in the preceding paragraph, the tax shall be charged and paid in accordance with the rules on value added tax." We believe that this provision has already been introduced, already legally laid down in the Value Added Tax Act and also the company's explanations are as follows, so that there will be no privileged position of traders compared to the inn. The proposal also gives the Minister responsible for trade the power to grant to a representative or other chamber, by a decision on the basis of a call for tender, the public authority to issue acts for trade governing seasonal sales. At the Ministry of the Economy, we believe that the bill follows trends in the development of trade activities in a desire to increase the competitiveness of traders while at the same time following consumer habits in terms of additional supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Secretary of State with his co-workers and co-workers. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Economy considered the proposal for a trade law at its 37th meeting, 7.11.2007. The bill received a lot of attention from interested organisations. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the comments were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, which were also adopted by the Committee. The Committee was informed of the comments and proposals of the State Council for amendments to the Committee. Their views were forwarded to the Committee by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which supports the proposal of the Government and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In addition to the amendments of the coalition parties, the amendments were also tabled by the SD Group at Article 5 and by the NSI Group at Article 8. These articles were also the most discussed on the Committee. With regard to complementary activities in trade, the common view was that taxation of activities or services was essential. With regard to Article 5 and the amendment of the Social Democrats, the main debate on the proposed solution was that no education was prescribed, but that was left entirely to traders. So, a complete deregulation of education for shopkeepers. Article 8 in relation to the operating time of trade has also, at the time of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, taken over the position of the Government and the majority of Members, both coalitions and opposition, in order to limit the operation or prohibition of operation on Sundays and public holidays, that it is reasonable to remain in the current solution and that the amendment has been rejected or not accepted. The amendments adopted are included in the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report you have. I propose that we adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Trade Act has often been dealt with in recent years, particularly in relation to the operating time of shops. We also decided at the referendum on business hours or whether trade should be open on Sundays and other parts of the day. We are probably all well reminded of the unfortunate referendum issue, the search for appropriate solutions and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The issue of operating time was then regulated and agreed on on the basis of an agreement between employers and employees. Despite the frequent amendments to the Trade Act in that part, the law in the rest of the text has not changed since 1993 when it was adopted in the National Assembly. At the time, in the field of economics and trade activities in Slovenia, the situation was completely different, so the decision of the Government or the competent minister to prepare a new law on trade was meaningful and also welcome. The needs under the law also confirm the opinions of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which in its letter stated that it fully agrees with the proposed law, as the text of the law follows the development trends and guidelines of today's competitive environment, in which trade activity also works. On the basis of what has already been said in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, it can be found that it is a good law, which makes sense to confirm it. The proposed law still distinguishes between retail and wholesale trade, which is in the interests of consumers. In addition, from the point of view of the integrated offer, the law provides traders with additional activities in shopping centres or shops, such as additional processing of food suitable for consumption. These measures are therefore in the interests of consumers as well as traders and are therefore regarded as positive. Perhaps the more important novelty of the marriage text is the deregulation of the profession by the seller and the commercial manager. With regard to the competitiveness of opening up the labour market or employment and the rapid development of trade, deregulation, of course, makes sense and is welcome. It is also supported by the fact that these professions are not regulated in other European countries. In view of this, we believe that deregulation of the profession does not yet mean that traders will not employ individuals with a commercial education in the future, as every trader wants good sellers who master their business and thereby create a greater profit by doing so. However, deregulation of the profession is also a challenge for commercial schools, which will have to prove their quality and that their students or students will achieve even better trade profiles compared to other professions. We are confident that any responsible and desired success of the employer, the trader will hire the best traders to work in the trade, which also certainly brings him success. However, if there are not enough experienced traders on the labour market, what is happening today, we are also giving the labour market the opportunity to choose among other professions. For example, a seamstress who has lost her job by no fault of her own, and I would like to hire her, perhaps even in trade, and this law gives her this opportunity to a trader. The proposed law also eliminates unnecessary administrative requirements in the area of trade records. Trade activity in Slovenia has developed very quickly in recent years, which is good. Of course, trade in addition to traders dealing solely with commercial activities is also encountered by other economic operators offering goods to the consumer, such as those which have produced them themselves. The proposed law equates all these economic operators, which is particularly relevant in terms of greater competitiveness between these entities. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed solutions in the Trade Act provide further promotion of entrepreneurship and strengthening the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, so we will also support it without reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! We have also given great and necessary attention to the Trade Act in the Group of Members. Like his respected colleague, Ferri, the chairman of the parental committee said that this law has raised a lot of attention, which is understandable. It is a matter of both the traders who offer and all of us who act as buyers and of course the members of Parliament who create the conditions under which this activity will carry out its mission. And in law as a whole, we can say that we are happy and satisfied because the law is ready, that many good solutions are set and written, and that the law, as such, also allows for the further implementation of that mission as trade has, to promote entrepreneurship. Therefore, we also welcome the solutions that are written and made possible in the form of complementary activities, which is certainly good to allow as many entities as possible to further improve and supplement their offer and also meet the needs of customers. However, in this case, the great danger that has also been expressed in these debates, in order to create uncertainty or even desire, could have been the typical case of unfair competition, which would have practically meant that in a shop where a buyer could also buy a steak or a hot dog, he would have bought it at a significantly lower price than in a neighbouring restaurant, a restaurant, which is certainly not good. And here it is necessary to have the same tax rate and that there are also the same conditions in providing the offer, it is said, both in terms of sanitary, hygiene and other conditions, and in particular that the same taxation is respected both for the trader and for the inn for the same products. Another matter that is truly unintelligible in our Group of Members, or this solution does not guarantee what we probably want as a society, but is the complete disintegration of staff, which can quickly lead to a fall in expertise, the qualifications of sellers, employees, which can then also mean a worse offer, a worse satisfaction of customers. This may also be due to pressure from large traders to employ unskilled or less skilled labour, sellers, other employees - in this way they also lower their costs and gain even more profits in their activities. That is why I think that this step is backwards and that it is certainly necessary to insist on ensuring an appropriate qualification, and that it is probably also right for the Minister of Education to give his position explicitly in such a proposal within the Government. We know that we are already dealing with major problems in places, in schools where catering staff are being educated, for commercial staff, and this deregulation is still a step towards bigger problems and, as it were, for smaller expertise. However, the third issue that has received considerable attention during the debate is, I think, an almost incomprehensible proposal from one of the parliamentary groups to ban trade again on Sundays. I think that the time we live is such that it is completely democratic and everyone's right, to spend Sunday mornings or in trade or nature or elsewhere, and that, therefore, while stressing the free enterprise initiative, stressing how the possibilities for different activities should be opened up as much as possible, such a proposal is unacceptable, and we do not really support it in our Group. But we support the very good solutions that are in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u10	Respectable present. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party Group, this law places capital owners, i.e. trade operators, in a priority or improved position. The fact of my words, or proof of my words, is, of course, in several elements of that law. According to my assessment, putting capital on a pedestal above consumers, on the other hand, and on the fundamental elements of competitiveness, such as improvement, quality, is not the right way of thinking by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent this law to the National Assembly under the name of improving quality and competitiveness both at home and at the international trading venue. But does quality really increase in a way that lowers minimum standards? In all other areas of economic activity, let us take on the automotive industry, quality is improved by taking into account or increasing minimum requirements, both in the field of pollution and in the field of security, as well as in the field of certificates and similar things. This time in this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is saying that it will go closer to capital-owners, traders - not traders who are employed in capital-owners, but exclusively capital-owners - in such a way as to eliminate the current education requirement; the current education requirement and this will be something better. Hold it! This will be something better and easier for the owner of the trade or carrier of a particular trading organisation. But people, this is not the right way to promote competitiveness, this is an extremely short-term goal! The fact is, on a long or medium term, such a decline in criteria under tactics or in the common denominator of competitiveness, which, of course, is not fully maintained, will be demonstrated in the overall negative light. The fact is, this is contrary to the Lisbon Strategy. The fact is that it is even a question whether the Ministry of the Economy has aligned this law with the school minister who, on the one hand, demands our society of the future as an educated society, a society that knows what it will do, and the Ministry of Economy says: There is no need for education anymore. Anyone can provide these services." But this is a much broader problem than just the problem of someone seeking an inadequate solution, or just the problem of someone seeking an individual to carry out such an activity. This, of course, is the decline in enrolment in secondary schools, which deal with teaching catering, tourism services and similar things. And this is completely contrary to all the strategies that we have adopted in this National Assembly in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in both education and competitiveness. But what is even bigger, even more negative goal, which, as a fact, if such a law is adopted, will appear in our society - this is a reduction in wages for people doing this kind of activity, i.e. for employees. While the Ministry of the Economy advocates that it is no longer necessary to have an education for the sale of food products, for the sale of those products, and other traders, gentlemen and of course ladies, I apologize, but if you accept this, the employer will pay less workers in the next step! And all this Ministry of the Economy works under the assumption of increasing competitiveness. Yes, please! What increase in competitiveness? On the one hand, you will achieve a lower entry into the secondary school system dealing with this, on the other hand a less capable commercial cadre, which before the sales shelves, and not least the fall in the salaries of these people. Instead of saying that we also build on knowledge in trade, we build competitiveness in trade by improving services, by raising criteria - no! Choose a different path, a short-term path. This law is not appropriate at the discretion of the National Party and will not receive support from this title in the context of the votes. And let the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be aware once again that, in so far as there are resolutions in other areas, the most international commitment of the Republic of Slovenia is that knowledge is a wealth, then let this resolution be included in the legislative process, but not ignored in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I want a nice hello to all of you! Well, it's been seen so far, and it's likely that we don't all share this marriage with the same satisfaction. The level of satisfaction is therefore largely different for one basic reason, mainly due to the reservation of professional education and some other concerns about this law have been raised. As far as the DeSUS Group is concerned, we are supporting all efforts to reduce administrative barriers, as we would like to say, to increase competitiveness, to encourage the free initiative on the market, so that what we can - and so do - write in all our strategies and reform programmes - will promote our knowledge-based competitive advantage, but we will end up in shock in a series of laws. On the ground, professional education has recently been too often placed on the altar to promote competitiveness. This was the case with the Custodians Act, and so with the Crafts Act, so is this law that is now under consideration. The proposal has so far proposed amendments and additions to this law, now decided on a new law; in previous attempts to change it was an interesting triangle, it was a matter of showing up - I am speaking a little of course - on the one hand, employers, on the other hand, workers, on the third hand consumers, and it was mainly about ensuring a better situation for workers, i.e. workers in trade, and finally, after the referendum, after the Constitutional Court's decisions, it decided by agreement. At least that's how we were all satisfied in the vast majority. And then the attempt, which has now been repeated in a more benign form, has stopped, namely the attempt to regulate trade more ideologically and politically than with economic criteria, but, in short, an agreement has been reached with which partners in this triangle have been satisfied. Now we have a different attempt. Now the proposaler in this triangle of interests gives more rights to those who are employers. What is also not bad, of course, also their interests and needs need to be met, but once again there has been controversy. But that was not the way of the agreement. This route was not taken into account by the trade unions; this was not taken into account either by the State Council or by the Chamber of Commerce. This route was unrelentingly insisting on the interests of traders, i.e. employers. This shift from an attempt to communicate is something that prevents the DeSUS Group from unanimously supporting the proposal of this Act. While the aims of the law are that there is no particular doubt about it, they could, of course, be supported if there were not a whole series of contradictions. Let's see what the contradictions are. For the first time, there is a contradiction between short- and long-term interest. The short-term, i.e. the cost interest, the reduction of costs for employers, is supported and it is true that, as some have said today, this will ultimately result in lower wages. Those who do not have an education will not be required and will not have the right to pay such salaries as those who have an education. And it's useless to say that employers will already make sure that the service is good because it's their interest. Then we could now make sure that they do not create any other contradiction, namely the contradictions arising from the surveys they carried out themselves and in which traders found that they need mainly the staff with IV, V and VI education, and propose the abolition of all education as a condition. There is no longer this condition in this law. And let me tell you that the international economic forum, when it examined this area in terms of competitiveness, found that one of Slovenia's fundamental weaknesses is a weak qualification standard of human resources, as we call it, and is from 124 countries that it analysed, Slovenia is 111. So, right at the bottom. It is therefore our view that the interests of employers are overly favoured, that we should also take more account of the long-term interests based on knowledge and that knowledge is tested with professional competence, and therefore unfortunately we will not fully, or we will be very much in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Stane Pajk has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u14	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law on trade, a move towards deregulation, greater freedom. This law proposes such a regulatory regime for trade activities that ensure the protection of employees, consumers and the environment while eliminating unnecessary administrative obstacles and equalising the operating conditions of all economic operators offering goods to consumers, whether they have produced them themselves or have purchased them for the purpose of further sale. The proposal for a trade law eliminates the educational conditions for the conduct of commercial activities, removes the obligation to keep trade records in trade and instead introduces the provision of data on the state of trade goods in accordance with the applicable Slovenian and international accounting standards. The proposed arrangement allows traders to further process or add goods to their own store under certain conditions and also to offer them to the consumer. The proposed law is based on the following principles: the principle of equality - any economic operator offering goods to consumers to operate under the same conditions; the principle of free economic initiative in connection with the deregulation of professions - let the trader choose, on the basis of his own choice, the level and direction of education of the staff needed for the sale of his own products. The principle of economics - traders are allowed to further process or complete products in their own shops and offer them to consumers in a modified state. In this way, they shall prevent any resulting damage resulting from the non-use of the goods. The removal of educational conditions for the conduct of commercial activities has caused the most controversy in the transitional legislative procedure, but we believe that, as proposed, it is also the right thing to do. Any company dealing with trade should just assess what personnel it should employ according to the professional and the level of the education. More than the company will want to add added value in the form of advice and other services, a more educated and specific staff will be employed. This law is also supported by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the law is good and we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ferri Horvat has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues. Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group will not oppose the law. With regard to the issue of complementary trade activities, to which the Council of State and certain chambers have commented, it seems essential that the tax rates for similar activities in trade, catering, craft and private undertakings are defined in such a way as to avoid unfair competition between activities or that conditions will be equivalent. With regard to professional qualifications, we understand the general orientation on deregulation and the abandonment of rights and responsibilities of operators and the functioning of the market. In doing so, the law follows the solutions already adopted in the Act on crafts and catering. However, the sudden complete deregulation, the abandonment of all, including the minimum criteria, raises concern that this would not lead to a reduction in the quality of services, which could damage both activities and consumers. Problems may also arise at the expected arrival of a foreign unskilled workforce in trade. Unfortunately, our amendment to the Government's mandate that, in addition to minimum technical conditions, it may also lay down other conditions, including minimum education, has not been adopted. With regard to the operating time of trade, we support the proposed solution and we did not support the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, which also opposed the Government and all other parliamentary groups on the Committee. Let me remind you that about one year ago, in the National Assembly, after lengthy discussions, the involvement of the Constitutional Court in the handling and resolution of this issue, and on the basis of an agreement between trade unions and employers, we have adopted a law with a large majority and there are no valid reasons for reopening this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Hello, my dear. Let me first say that in the New Slovenia Group we also have reservations until the Trade Act this time. All the novelties of the 1993 law dealt with the regulation of the operating time of shops or shops. And today, in the New Slovenia Group, we find that even with the new proposal of the Trade Act, we are no closer to achieving the referendum will of the people. The stores are still open on Sundays. However, I must say that the changes introduced by the new law in the New Slovenia Group will not be opposed. We understand that legislation adapts to changing situations. The development of information technology, globalisation and new marketing knowledge not only made it possible for new conditions and modes of business to be developed in trade but also generally in life. We welcome the decision to remove the obligation to keep records in trade and to regulate business in accordance with Slovenian and international accounting standards. We also trust the proposer that he has well taught the possibility that traders also offer additional services to consumers. The removal of educational conditions for sellers and commercial managers makes sense if it is judged through the eyes of owners. They will seek such a labour force that can handle trade goods, but we are also confident that it will provide quality services to consumers. Certainly we also understand that an additional argument on this deregulation of professions is that there is no such staff. There are virtually no salesmen and vendors. In the New Slovenia Group, we ask whether this may not be due to the awareness that opening hours include Sunday's work. You know, it was interesting on the board to hear there were no hairdressers and hairdressers years ago. That's when years ago, when hair salons, because you all know it, or we know it, were open. Today, when the hairdressers' salons are closed on Sundays, it's supposed to be enough. Increasingly, there are rumours that sellers and sellers do not receive an additional payment for Sunday work, as provided for by the collective agreement on trade in Slovenia. The question arises on its own whether the interest of large traders has not prevailed in this case. We know the tradesmen were victoriously declared less than a year ago, how they agreed to deal with the unions on Sunday's work. Today, we can ask what these same wholesalers agreed a while ago on the prices we have today. Experts note that our market is under-transparent and under-competitive. As a result, food prices rise and inflation today. We know that the Anti-Limiting Office is powerless in the case of wholesalers. If we withdraw these findings, at least in the New Slovenia Group there is growing doubt about the equality of partners or signatories to the collective trade agreement. As I said in the introduction, we will not oppose the proposal of the law, but we must make it clear that our special concern will also be focused in the future on efforts to eliminate Sunday work and to implement the referendum will of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u19	Thank you very much. It is also Mr Mitja Slavinec who missed his performance because he was present at the reception of the delegation in Parliament. If no one would mind, I'll give him my word. Here you go, Dr. Mitja Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u20	Thank you so much for your words and understanding. The meeting with the German delegation was delayed, and that's why I'm late. In the LDS, we support the aim of the law, which is to promote entrepreneurship and strengthen the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. However, it is one of the solutions to the new trade law, which is the deregulation of the professions of the trader and the commercial manager, which on the one hand adds the possibility that regardless of the direction and level of education they choose the cadre most suitable for the sale of their products, is certainly unacceptable to us. At the LDS, we strongly oppose such deregulation, as we estimate that it does not contribute in any way to the pursuit of this objective, to the promotion of entrepreneurship, but has a very negative impact both on the structure of staff in trades, and even more negatively on the already low entry into vocational schools for already such uninteresting vocational education. In this particular case, for the profession of traders. The proposal of the Trade Act does not provide for the minimum necessary level of education, nor does it provide for any educational requirements and thus opens the door wide to anyone - a specific manager may be someone without a primary school - and, of course, allows employers to create negative selection. This proposal is also strongly opposed by trade unions, as they are aware of what this means. It means that traders, employers can opt for lower-educated staff and, at the same time, reduce payments even more and, of course, create negative selection in stores. The proposed solution to deregulation of professions is also contrary to the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, which is one of the main priorities of the Republic of Slovenia and, therefore, we regret so much more that no amendment has been adopted that a minimum level of education for certain professions must be defined, i.e. for certain areas of trade, because it is also necessary for security reasons. Why does someone specifically choose to study pharmaceuticals? Because he enjoys working at a pharmacy, and because he knows that if he wants to, say, work at a pharmacy, he needs a diploma to finish this study. Why is someone now deciding on a tradesman's profession? Because he certainly enjoys trading, working in trade, and because he knows that the knowledge he receives in this school will make it necessary to have some formal education. At the LDS Club, we do not insist that this formal education must be a trader, but we insist that at least a minimum level of education must be ensured, that those who work in the store have the appropriate competence to keep the trade. The second point that seems disputed to us in the LDS is the questionable provision of Article 3 which is not in line with the Value Added Tax Act because the sale of the same products under the same conditions or the same services will not be ensured. It is a matter of being able to sell certain products under a different tax rate at a store or in a restaurant with such a solution. And this is certainly not right and this is certainly not fair and does not guarantee equal opportunities on the market. This is why, mainly due to the deregulation of professions and inequalities in the payment of taxes, we will not support the LDS Trade Act at the Parliamentary Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 20.11.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Anybody want a word? Check-in is on. Mr. Aloise Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have already pointed out, in our opening statement, that the law is good in certain cases, but this article can give rise to reflection on the emergence of unfair competition. We therefore propose that at the end of the fourth paragraph of Article 3, the words "for the sale of beverages and foodstuffs referred to in the previous sentence, the tax shall be charged and paid in accordance with the rules on value added tax as applicable to catering services". I believe, and I believe, that the purpose of the law is probably also such that it knowingly does not create unfair competition, and I am convinced that this is also the logical thinking of both the Minister of the Economy and all the employees there, and I am also convinced, especially the Secretary of State, that this amendment is just an addition to the fact that it will be even more explicitly recorded that there will be no speculation, or that even in the field, in everyday practice, someone would misunderstand and then come to a situation that was previously described to have an example of a trader selling and offering food, food or beverages, including a guest who would also like to eat, or sell drinks at a higher price, precisely for that reason, because he would use another tax rate. Therefore, once again, we are convinced that this basic logic of the law follows that they follow the same conditions both for the guests and for the traders, but that our addition to Article 3 makes the dictatorship of this article even clearer. I therefore propose to my colleagues that this article or this supplement to Article 3 also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u24	Thank you again very much, Chairman. At first glance, when you read the amendment, you seem fine, but when you look a little more at some things, you find that VAT is probably not part of the trade law. We have some other law, some regulation where there is a tax rate for this or that service. And I think that, according to our assessment, according to what I have read, this does not belong here, and this amendment is not necessary then, and that is why the Slovenian People's Party will not support it. I would like to explain, however, because I have read some things that seem important to me: "Because, in relation to unfair competition between traders and innkeepers regarding the level of VAT rates for the same goods, it is important to stress that the VAT rate for individual goods is not determined by the trader or the inn, but by how food or drink is offered, either as a supply of goods or as a service. As the trader of certain products in his shop could actually offer as a service and not just as a supply of goods, VAT is charged for these products at the same rate as for the inn." And here it has made it perfectly clear in the law of added value. So it seems to me that this does not belong to this substance of our law, which is estimated to be, I will say, as I have listened, good, except at times when some fellow Members do not want and do not want to understand the reality of today. This reality today is that there are no traders on the labour market. Trust me. I've been a 12-year-old employer, and I know this thing pretty well. And it is right that this deregulation, in a way, allows the company or legislator to employ those profiles that do not have an explicit commercial school and others. Like I said in the announcement, so was the seamstress. Finally, this could be even better or the same for the provision of certain services in trade. And this is, in my opinion, a positive step of this, despite the fact that any serious and responsible trader, if he gets on the market a cadre that will be professionally educated, especially for some technical professions in trade, is indispensable, he will certainly not take one another. I think there's too much thunder here for nothing. Let's leave this to employers and employees. But there is indeed one problem in this society: that unfortunately there is no interest nor in the merchant, nor in the inn, nor in the builder, nor in the commoner, nor in the technique, for nothing. This is a complex question where we need to ask ourselves. But right now, with this correction of your wishes, we can't fix these problems in society, not at all. I'm afraid there's gonna be too little admission to these schools, professional, professional, where there's simply no entry. I'm also in favour of this society being taught to invest in knowledge. This is our advantage to go to high school, but these professions also need companies. Believe me, and we will not be able to import anything from other EU countries to do these things. I think we need to do something here. But I agree. There are more reasons. The first and the basic is my salary; the merchant pays, the inn is too low, definitely. For the work they do, Sunday, night, difficult working conditions, it's too low. If this salary had been better, it would certainly have been a larger admission to commercial, catering and other schools. That's my basic question. And of course, what we said years ago, I remember this, I'm talking about the guest industry: "My daughter will no longer be a waitress." And it's kind of present in society, so it's an exhilarating concern. I have no bad conscience in allowing employers to choose the labour force available on the market. Shops are expanding. I know some shopping houses that do not get workers for trade and therefore cannot open a completed facility. There's something wrong here. Let them decide who they're going to hire. And in the end, the profits that every trader wants will also have to be based on a good frame. This certainly applies to trade, hospitality and everyone else. And if he doesn't follow that, then I'm sure there won't be a result. I think that what was also spoken of in the home work body and today in the National Assembly, I think, was, in my opinion, "don't drink water." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Aloys Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I expected that the first debate to be held on this amendment of the Group of Ambassadors will indeed be that this is not systematic, that the tax is regulated in the second law. We're aware of that ourselves. We know this well, but we suggest that this supplement is not accepted. Look, it's simple, they say, "The excess doesn't hurt the head." However, in this way, by just one sentence, which is also in this trade law, he makes it very clear to everyone. It is written that taxation must be the same in the store of the one offering food as in the neighbouring restaurant which is the inn; it will be easy and equally understandable for all, and will prevent these anomalies that may occur. Indeed, we in the Group of Members do not claim that this will happen, nor do we claim that this will make it impossible for anyone else to try and offer because there will be an additional service in trade, food or drink, that they will not try to interpret this law differently. But with our addition, this dictatorship will be very clear and very understandable to everyone. We are also very well aware that the life we now live in Slovenia is within the framework of a life that lives in Europe and elsewhere in the world, and that the way of life changes and that these habits are also taken from abroad into Slovenia with both hands. That is why there is so much pressure on shopping centres, and therefore the way of food moving from the home dining room to shopping malls and shops is changed, and we are aware that this is necessary to accept as much as anyone can limit it to himself. However, in order not to create such an anomaly as may result from what is unfair competition between traders and innkeepers, we propose again - and it will not be wrong or very good if we add this sentence, "that for the sale of beverages and foodstuffs referred to in the preceding paragraph of the tax is charged and paid in accordance with the rules on value added tax as applicable for catering activities or catering services" to remove any doubt and I think it would be good, despite the fact that this amendment has been tabled by a non-committal party to adopt and that the law which is such is further improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, please. I would only remind you that there would be no debate, but we are talking or discussing an amendment, which is quite precise.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to limit myself to the amendment and everything that comes to this amendment. So I personally support the amendment. I support him because he corrects a certain ambiguity. I would be very happy if my concern was that there would be a possibility of abuse, that there would be a possibility of unfair competition due to different taxation, over. Surely, as long as the existing law excludes this, then everything is fine. However, unfortunately - this is also the way the committee debate has been conducted - this does not explicitly exclude it. Cases can be found, there can be an option where the trade activity will be mixed up because it is intertwined with guest activity. Of course, I support the fact that in stores it is possible to sell on fast-prepared products, not least drinks, drinks from machines. However, I support this amendment precisely because there would be no uncertainty that it would not happen that people would not know how to act so that traders would not know what the real procedure is. Why don't we know - even for deregulation of education. This can also affect whether they know by what tax to charge a drink that is in the store of sale or by trade - and that someone can drink it there - or by the law on trade or catering activities, and that is the thing that we are talking about, because here the tax is different: in one case it is 8.5%, in the other case it is 20%. And if we have what this law also brings, a hypothetical situation where people with primary school will be employed in the store or not. This is now possible after a new proposal. I am sure that it will not be clear to people that those responsible will not be able to make the right decision. And it is also good that they have a commercial school, and it is also good that the employees in the store have a basic level of education; I do not insist on a commercial but some education where they hear at least the basics of taxes. I'm aware that wages are low, but they'll be even lower because people who have lower levels of education will be employed. For this reason, we can also ask ourselves what we have secondary education for, for example, at the time of sale, the commercial school also has a subject on the legal order, where it teaches them about the tax legislation it is now talking about. Let us ask ourselves why we are adopting such legislation that practically everyone can do everything. I am aware that it is not necessary for everyone in the store to have a management school; on the contrary, I also argue that the situation as it is now is not the most lifelike, but when we look at the law as a whole, we see that certain things certainly improve, but not entirely appropriate. And for this reason, I support this amendment, and therefore I wish that things are more explicit and precise in the legislation, so that there will be no doubt at all. And once again, the likelihood and the possibility of doubt, the likelihood of a malfunction of those who run or work in trade, is increased by this legislation. This legislation increases as any level of education, any other than the technical condition in the course of trade activity, is eliminated. And if not for another reason, it is appropriate to support and achieve this amendment to eliminate the possibility of errors, then, after all, to punish for misunderstandings and, most importantly, because someone would like to abuse not the most accurately recorded dictatorship in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, today we have another law before us, which clearly shows that this time the government has put itself on the side of capital. He's not important, he's not a worker, he's a worker, he's a business owner, he's a capital owner. I am appalled when some representatives of the government coalition justify lowering educational standards with the reality of today's time, respected colleagues and colleagues. Do you know what the reality of today's day is - that a merchant who doesn't even get a minimum wage for an eight-hour working day can't leave his job to go to the bathroom! This is the reality of today's day - that a woman, because she has a month's laundry, has to wear a different color cap so that she can leave the job and go to the toilet! This is happening in Slovenia. That's the reality of today, but that's not what this government is asking, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that we go competitive at the level of trade. Shops grow like mushrooms in the rain. I'll tell you, just before last year, this same government took a similar action in the field of innkeepers, chefs. Do you know what the result is? No matter what kind of education the guests have today, what kind of education the chefs have, the result is a 30% decline in the secondary school for catering and tourism. On the other hand, I read government forecasts, or full of mouths, are the promises of this government, which will be priorities during the Presidency of the European Union. EU 2008, with education for growth and more jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u31	Madam Ambassador, I'd like to ask you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u32	Excuse me. Allow me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u33	I'd like to ask you, please. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u34	Other fellow Members also spoke [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u35	The debate is under way. [[...]] Can I have a word?? The debate is under way on Article 3 and the amendment of the Zares Group, so please discuss this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u36	I believe, Mr President, that it hurts the truth, but also my fellow Members, also a colleague from the SLS before me, spoke specifically about lowering educational standards - for I have summarized the words "The reality of today."".. So let me finish; of course I will also associate myself with the amendment tabled by the Zares Group of Members; but you know, this amendment also speaks of competitiveness, competitiveness between one another and the other, between traders and guests. So allow me to conclude my thinking on competitiveness, because I am afraid that this competitiveness will not lead us, I don't know, to the most developed European societies, as far as education, knowledge. If the government has set up a project - to be competitive at the level of education, then I do not understand why such laws as we adopt them today in the National Assembly. I mentioned what happened in the area of catering - a similar matter will happen in the field of trade. I want to know where the guards were for the workers, the workers. Where's the guard? Won't the workers get paid? No, no, no. Because they will no longer have as high an education as prescribed today. Where's the guard? Where did it keep capitalists, capital owners, from saving in their own pockets again? No, no, no. The tax reform of this government has also gone this way. The tax reform went this way to relieve the richest layers of the population. As a result, between January and October this year, a percentage of those people, those workers who have a minimum wage, increased. These were the effects. These are wrong measures, respected colleagues and colleagues. You didn't have a hearing on the committee to accept an amendment that was correcting what you're about to enact today. No, no, no. You're carefree, I'll say home-made, "scanned" amendment, a warning from the opposition. I fear that a similar matter will happen in the area of preschool education. The Minister of the Beast had already announced that teachers had too much education to take care of their children. It's a disaster for someone to think like that! Someone who leads and directs our policy. As far as amendment and competitiveness are concerned. Yes, I would very much like to hear the government's explanation - why, but really why not. But not to comment on the Income Act, why not adopt such an amendment and include a safeguard or a clearer dictatorship in the framework of the law that we are considering today? Why can the owner of a hot-dog store in the same shopping centre by, I don't know, I'll say, 2 euros because he can sell it at a lower VAT rate? And why can the owner or owner have a five-euro hot dog because he has to sell it at a higher VAT rate? I'm asking, why does the government oppose this amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thanks again for saying that. I believe that the Government's explanation of this amendment has also been quite clear because, in fact, this area is governed by so-called tax legislation and I also believe that some irregularities, if any, should not already be achieved. Otherwise, we have certain inspection services, which must also work on the ground. I have certain concerns about this Article, as I have already said on the Committee. We know that, in fact, the Government is going against the regulation of the catering activity, what we have adopted a while ago, because the hosts can also sell certain products that have been only available in trade so far and should also offer trade what we have written in this law. You know, in the final stage, the most important price or the most important price for the consumer, and when we talk about a supermarket, where there will be a shop and also a restaurant, it bothers me because the law states that without specific additional conditions or requirements, the trader can do so, but the inn has certain or must meet certain conditions, either spatial, sanitary and so on, which certainly affects the final price and I am afraid that in these large supermarkets, the inn will literally be pushed out of the room because it will be found that certain ones, if I can say, products or these products or drinks and everything else, will not be competitive. And I still said, as I have expressed it, to the committee that this would be appropriate for those shops where there is only trade, it is true, but trade in old cod kernels, in the city's cores and so on should indeed be taken care of. Regrettably, it is also true that today, literally, I note that these shops are closing day after day, perhaps this would be one of the solutions, the fact that large traders have squeezed out or are almost gone. However, once again, I stress the view that it is not necessary to write this further in Article 3 as the Group of Members is indeed proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Stan Pike. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u40	Thank you. We've heard a lot, just a little bit about the amendment to Article 3. I'll tell you about the amendment first. I think he is well-intentioned to try to introduce into this law the fact that unfair competition between innkeepers and traders does not occur, but is unnecessary, therefore unnecessary, because the law which provides for VAT comes from tax legislation and it is not good to mix too much together. Because what happens if you put yourself in one marriage from a larger area? It happens that a person who respects this law must review all possible legislation, if he is somewhere else in a purely third law, where it is written out of it, so it is necessary to have some order and it is right that this order is respected and that laws do not include those things that do not, in principle, fall within this law. Personally, I do not think that this amendment falls under this law, although I stress that it is most likely to be written with a good purpose to regulate the absence of unfair competition. I was the first to oppose unfair competition, and we also discussed on the committee that what was going to happen in trade would be completed and then sold in the form of a catering service at a second tax rate, most likely it would be necessary to have another cash register or not, how this would be done is another thing, but the fact that for this product, a second tax rate will be required for this service. And it's essentially the Ministry of Finance's responsibility to take care of everything. He himself would be a little malice and would say that if we had the same tax rate, there would be no such problems, all the products would come at the same tax rate and those anomalies coming and which are goods products, goods services that you can put once into that tax rate or that tax rate, cancel out and go all at one tax rate. Maybe later there won't be any more of these problems. Yes, because it has been said about everything else, only about this article at the very least, but I will also be about education, whether it is necessary or not, whether it is regulated or not. I'm looking at the freedom of this thing, it means, with as few restrictions as possible. Each marriage should also be written briefly, succinctly, so that everyone understands it, and with as few limitations as possible. Let us leave a free economic initiative to the one who is implementing it. This article is written in the Constitution, and it is also right to follow the stop when we write laws. A free economic initiative means that those who are employers have as few obstacles as possible to earning and that this profit is then shared for work as well as for progress, including for development and for all that is necessary for society and the economy to survive in the long run. Therefore, with regard to the restriction, I believe that it should be avoided, except in specific professions such as health care and pharmaceuticals, perhaps elsewhere. I must also say that before this, we had the Hostage Act, where we have also relaxed, and it would not be good now to limit it on the other hand, because, on the one hand, we allowed the guests to extend their space of action and to shape it more freely, on the other hand, it is also right for traders to get this opportunity, but not to put themselves on the side of capital. But this capital is due to earn so much money that it can then be shared. As he deserves it, I think he is most responsible for how to get the added value, either the owner or the owner representing the owner. I'll give you a case. In a store where they sell computers, it makes very little sense to me that we should have a tradesman with a vocational school in order to sell computers. It requires at least secondary education in the field of computer direction to also know software, as software and other additional things connected to the computer are also sold alongside the computer, such as a personal computer. And how rude they would be if we told this salesman that he had to have a minimum vocational school. For me to sell there or an engineer of computer science, or at least with secondary education, but a man who knows about it who can advise. And through these advices, through the knowledge that he has, he will also enforce a greater added value so that he can attach something small to it and say it that way and that way. And that's the point of not restricting businesses. Let companies decide which by profession and by level of education the labour force will employ. I can also say that it is right to give an opportunity to those who are unemployed at this time, and to go to the store with great desire, but they do not have this education. It is also appropriate that, or more rightly, we issue work visas and bring in an educated foreign labour force. This needs to be put on the scale and weighed by these things. The meaning and every government or every society should pursue a few objectives. This is as little unemployment as possible, and we are also adding a drop in some way to the fact that the added value is as high as possible and that economic operators are as free as possible. Of course not at the expense of nature, not at the expense of people. I agree with that. But it has to be balanced. It's simple, so I won't support this amendment because I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u42	Good day to you in this hall! As for this amendment to Article 3, I personally see only one reservation, that it is not in fact meaningful and it is wrong to accept such an amendment, because it is a talk about a matter that simply does not fall within the law that we are dealing with here today. It is not logical and it is not understandable that things concerning tax legislation would actually be introduced in all other legislation with certain provisions, which in fact causes a lot of transparency or I will say only a vague area of tax legislation. Let tax matters be regulated in their legislation. Here, in this Trade Act, we regulate things that actually concern trade. I must say, I have nothing to point out or to object to the contents of the amendment myself. However, in this debate, I would also like to touch on a little debate that is already taking place here, as regards the educational structure, as well as what Mrs Tavševa discussed, about traders. I say, every thing has certain truths, and I must say, certain things I agree that traders are very burdened, that many employers take advantage of them abnormally, which is wrong and that is for one minimum wage. This I must attach to Mrs Tavša that we should sort of arrange and disable here in some way, I will say cruel exploitation. I have to touch Sunday's work with that. Personally, I am sad that, despite the referendum will, we have failed, at least for my understanding, it is appropriate to arrange that we have given too much leave to employers here. I am in favour of one free economic initiative, but to one limit, to one reasonable limit. In fact, this logic of capital is ruthless and tries to cross all borders, which is not good. If I go back to the merchants myself again. I think that every employer, every trader, should be interested in having employees of such persons who, by their professional work, will be able to transfer as much sales as possible and thus have as much income as possible. I am not looking here at the fact that we should only hire traders, but we also have to hire experts in a particular area, because several times I have happened to simply walk out of the store, even though I wanted to buy something because I did not run into a trader who could help me and advise me on a particular purchase. And if I say again, I will not support this amendment, which is proposed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor. I hope that the debate will continue, I remind you again, of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u44	Mr President, you can be sure that we are also proposing this amendment, indeed, the Group of Members and I would like to reiterate why we have proposed it in the Group of Members. All discussions by colleagues from the positioning parties show this very fact that this supplement needs to be introduced, because look. I wrote down a few sentences. First of all, it's nice to hear them. Secondly, what they really show is what is happening on the ground and what we are observing as the opposition as well as the coalition, the only difference is that some can directly influence this, but some can only warn. And explicitly stating that the sale of beverages and foodstuffs referred to in the preceding paragraph is subject to tax and is paid in accordance with the rules on value added tax, as applicable for catering services, means that there will be no misunderstandings. You used to say that we have vague legislation that we need to know so many different kinds. This is precisely what the legislation at the Finance Ministry is very clear about value added tax, the Trade Act, but there is a possibility and there is a chance that someone can make a good mistake and explain the matter in a way that we will have a merchant, a food or a drink cheaper than the one offered by the neighbour's inn. And if you've found for yourself before that it's almost terrible to see how big merchants have destroyed small merchants, that we're on the right track with a little speculation, that in this way big merchants will destroy even the inn. And in a few months of misunderstanding this law with a wrong and in a better calculation of the lower tax, it will happen that otherwise the inn will be right, but it will not last these few months. Therefore, I think it is important that this article be supplemented by an explicit sentence that would erase all these dilemmas. I am convinced that by afternoon or until the vote there is enough time and that there is nothing wrong, I repeat, if the Group of Members has proposed this and there is nothing wrong with it, if this is already regulated by the tax rate legislation. I don't understand the humor of Mr Pike, who says, "If I were evil, I'd ask if we had one tax rate, it wouldn't be a dilemma." I don't know why you're asking us who are very numerous in the opposition. You're in the area. Why don't we have it? I can ask you if I'm a little serious. And more seriously, how do you explain this deregulation of professions, of education? We've done this peacefully with the innkeepers, and it makes sense for us to do it with the merchants as well. And, logically, it will seem likely that we will do it in babysitters in kindergartens, logically also in teachers at school, logically in bus drivers, in pilots. The only thing that's likely to happen to surgeons and doctors is that we're not going to go into this deregulation with such an easy approach, but we're going to build on knowledge. That is why these warnings, which we have given both to the Committee and to these debates, are important, and that the moment that we are so late, that we can point out that this is not happening in practice, and that this is complemented, I repeat, only by an addendum that will clarify and that will truly commit and make everyone aware at what level and how to account for services in those shops which will also have a guest activity. And I hope and promise, Mr President, that I will no longer discuss this, but that this will complement the Zares Group, which has been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I understand the well-intentionedness of colleagues from the party Really to seek to include this proposal in the law as well, but I did not see it from all the feedback from the professional public that it was necessary to "mus". All things say in this direction that the need to put this amendment in place is not necessary. That's why I don't think we'd be duplicating things, and I don't think there's any such serious need for it. Of course, I find it somewhat inappropriate that in this debate, some people who are likely to trade, except in terms of shopping, have not seen inside. I can argue that in my 15-year practice in trade, I have experienced all sorts of things, but above all I want to say that trade is extremely different, and not to simplify things. The rural trade is completely in a different situation than in the city and it is even a matter of the existence of rural trade. However, I think that those who live in rural areas are significantly more dependent, and it is essential that trade exists so that at least they can buy the basic food products they need every day. Usually, those shops that are owned by individuals are successful, and there is no problem of anyone stepping in to help but that they do not have the appropriate commercial education. Of course, I do not agree with what has been happening, in particular with the'maximum neighbour', which in order to reduce costs, has hired students, although I say that work can also be done by someone without a commercial education. And that's what I think is that this law in this function, and with this purpose, has been amended and corrected. However, it is clear to all, I think it is pointless to discuss that some high technology cannot sell or even an economist with a diploma, but it is necessary to sell it exclusively from this area, and this is also quite clear and such imbalances and such fears that have arisen here inside, I think they are completely unjustifiable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Those who refused to accept this amendment spoke mainly in this sense, saying that this is unnecessary, that it is a duplication, that it is not necessary, that everything is clear anyway, but I would like to remind that it is not so clear, at least so far in our debates it has not been so. And if today we were to ask this question of clarity to 90 Members and Members of Parliament, and they would answer that question, they would see how ridiculous the answers would be, we would be ashamed. Most people don't know what's going on. The vast majority don't know what's going on. How do those 100,000 buyers who show up at the store know? And if one of the principles of the law is to be clear, I see no reason not to define it clearly, that is now one answer. The second answer, which I think is more dramatic, is this, but those who participated in the debate on the working body, we could see and hear the arrogance of the merchants or their high-level representative, who, when we discussed these things, said for the record that whatever the law was going to be, because if the law didn't fit the merchants, they would not respect it, he said. And this should be published by all the media, then it might be clear why even top traders, television managers cannot tell what the margin is for them and what it is for them to do, where the difference is, why such inflation, who serves and who doesn't and so on. A lot of this fog might be deplorable if one thing was more specific. And I, I'm sorry, I really don't understand those who blindly believe traders, so they've been talking here today, let them, let them decide, they already know what's right, they'll do everything right. No, no, no. The market economy is an economy that needs to be regulated. Who doesn't know who thinks we are in the Middle Ages, where everyone will do their own work, if he has little property, then he must live in the Middle Ages and not afford it to those who want to live modern life. By protecting them from those who have greater power, capital, and money. And why would I simply believe in blindness, believe merchants, that they will hire the best and the most educated. Then why didn't they come up with analyses of how many engineers, how many technicians and other professions have employees? Then why do they find out they want a VI employee? And they demand that education be thrown out of marriage as a condition, why should they be blindly trusted? I don't want to judge the average. But I would like to point out that there are some weaknesses in this marriage that would be right for us to be aware of. And if there's an amendment that can help, I'm willing to support it. There were no traders on the market, it was said. It also mixes what a merchant is and what a salesman is. You can't get the salesmen. The seller is not because they have bad salaries because they had bad conditions for work and so on. And thank God that the market opens up so that they can escape from these bad wages into some other profession where they can earn a decent living. And of course, after this law there will be a seller of such, say, even less, because there will be no need, because no one will seek them by the profession of sellers, they will look for those who have no education and who will actually be worse able to pay. And I think if I make a little joke, paraphrasing, in fact, it's not a long time to ask that he doesn't have any education.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I would very much like to argue with my colleague Tavshevo. I'm sorry she's not here, but I also know that you're going to stop me. Given that she said something about traders, which I would also agree to exploit trade, but also went to other areas that have nothing to do with this amendment or with this law. I will not discuss education either, because I do not think that this amendment mentions this, this was a lot of talk, even on the working body itself. The structure of the education or the seller varies from trained to highly qualified and educated engineers and electronics and so on, depending on the specificity of the different ranges in the store. But as far as this amendment is concerned, it's substantively fine, but I'm taking it as a message just in case, let's write it in there so that someone doesn't get it wrong, or if someone who isn't a trader, a citizen, a citizen goes and says, "Yeah, because we're doing the same thing as in the restaurant." I consider this to be an actual message, and I think things are doubling. And that this should not be the practice of quoting in laws certain articles or the contents of a basic law that already prescribes this. The trader, if he makes a mistake, knows exactly how to account for value added tax, he knows that very well. And if he makes a mistake, he can also make a mistake, if written down, he can always be wrong. But if he makes a mistake, he'll be reminded by the market inspector with a certain fine, just in case he makes a mistake. That is why they are the authorities that prevent this, which warn and punish. So I don't think we really need to write this down just in case, because this is exactly what the Value Added Tax Act says about guest services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u51	Mr. Christian Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I'd tell my colleagues that we've just decided on capitalism, and that's what we have now at the door. Secondly, colleagues of Tavšev, unfortunately, are not here to agree on the wages of the store between the employer and the employee, not the government, but the two agree. And thirdly, if the employer only employs primary school workers, then the long way is not open. But if any of them are involved in primary school education, it's no big deal. Finally, this has been proved by cases [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you. We're still with Article 3 and the amendment. When we adopted the Inns Act, where we allowed the innkeepers to also offer certain assortments, which are offered in the store, I would like to say that somehow this issue did not open up there, it was probably not appropriate. Since we are laymen in this area, it is now 8.5% tax or 20% tax, what does that mean for guests. But you know why I have now opened this question, because it would be interesting now after a bad year, I think it's been a bad year since we adopted this law, to ask ourselves what we did right for the guests or whether it actually worked. I have to say that I was happy to support this proposal at the time, because, you know, when we talked about closing trades on Sundays, we had in mind all the time, yes, what about those vital necessities of life you might need on Sunday. And that's what we wrote in this law. I guess those of you who worked together at the time adopted this law that you were aware of it, at least for me it was very positive, because you can have some dry meat products, bottled drinks, coffee, even milk - I think you can get liter milk at the inn on Sunday, of course, if the inn decided to take advantage of it all, which was then written in the law. I do not think that this has yet been established in practice. I also have to say that I've been talking to some of the innkeepers, they don't even know that. But I would point out once again - whether at the time it was not a matter of adding to the law that these products must be accounted for at the VAT rate as prescribed, under the same conditions as if the product were sold in trade. It may not be appropriate for me to point out this, but we always wonder if it is only when we discuss a lot of things for someone’s benefit, not when someone’s going to lose. Actually, I wanted to say that. Do you know if this were to live what we adopted at the time in the Hostages Act, I don't think it would be necessary for the stores to be open on Sunday. Because that's what we've actually provided those vitals of life so you can buy them there. This is just another of New Slovenia's appeals to be necessary; some of you said before: "Let's not open this old thing again, that this was very well solved."today, when we analyze together what we did well at the time. Let us say that employers and trade unions have agreed whether employers and employees or traders have agreed. Probably not, as far as today’s personal income problems are concerned with those who are employed in trade. You know, really, when we're discussing the personnel that there are no traders or traders in this profession. And I'm also wondering today how he's gonna decide on this job if he knows he's gonna have to work on Sunday. This is what I pointed out earlier in the position of our Group of Members. If someone decides to take a doctor's job, he'll probably have to take some shifts on Sundays, and so on. That we're already forcing someone to work where it's not necessary on Sunday, but it seems to me that they're out of place and that we need to think about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u56	I was briefly taught by a fellow Member in a very short course that we are in capitalism. I know that. But I know more than that. I know that we have capitalism in Japan, that we have Asian tiger capitalism, that we have it in Africa, that we have it in South America, that we have it in the United States, and that we have it in Europe, even in Slovenia. And they're not the same. They're very different. And not only does capitalism differ so consistently now in this moment around the world, but diahrons also differ. Capitalism is in America, and every change in government changes the character of capitalism. It's probably going to be like this with us. When the government changes, we'll still have capitalism, maybe a little different. And capitalism is more than just capitalists. The vast majority of capitalist countries are those that are not capitalists.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Jersich, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'll try to be as short as I can. We have heard a lot of views from all sides of the hall, and allow me only to briefly summarise the position of the Ministry of Economy's proposer. Many times the word reality of today was mentioned. And one of the key things about these words is the lack of personnel in trade in Slovenia. All market research shows that employers cannot employ as many sellers as they want. On the other hand, we talked about extremes if the law was adopted if this novel was adopted, that traders would fire all qualified traders and hire only retailers with primary education. We don't think that's gonna happen. Look, there's been a lot of talk about profits and stuff. The profit is due to the sale. Good sales are due to good staff. I believe that none of us underestimates employers from the point of view of their personnel. Everyone knows that a good cadre is a motivated cadre, is a competitive cadre and similar. And a good management will try to hire a manpower he can get on the market. By deregulation of the profession, the trader may also hire sellers with a different education. I believe and know that there are a lot of unemployed high school graduates on the market, and I believe and I am sure that all these high school graduates have competences that match the competences of a good trader. It has been heard and I also agree that trade is not just the sale of the simplest products. Technical stores sell hardware and software equipment, here the sellers must be educated. Once again, it is most likely that traders will employ a cadre appropriate to this product. The bill provides an opportunity, does not order traders to hire people with lower education. In the end, that's all there is to it. The law currently in force regulates the profession of the seller and yet secondary commercial schools are not full. Therefore, the fact that the deregulation of the profession will reduce entry into secondary commercial schools is not entirely true. As far as the amendment is concerned. I have already said in my summary of the law that we agree with the content of the proposed amendment. But yet, we do have a system law, a value added tax law. The Member of the Slovenian National Party mentioned earlier that the Government is citing the Income Act. No, it's not. We don't plead for the Income Act. The Income Act has nothing to do with value added tax. Once again, the Value Added Tax Act speaks as previously said by Member Janc; it is not defined who sells a particular product, but how this product is offered. Whether to be sold or in the form of a service. And the law clearly says, if it's a service, the tax is 20%. The proposal of the Trade Act also specifies that traders, if they offer services with their products, must separate space from other premises in trade. And the purpose of this law is to enable, above all, smaller traders struggling with great competition, smaller shops in the countryside to enrich their offer for their survival. And that's what we heard. If we introduce this amendment into this law, consumers will be better aware of tax rates. I don't think so. Probably none of us as consumers read the laws before entering the store for some product. Not the Value Added Tax Act, not the Special Law. Is it a store or is it a hospitality law? Nor did we adopt a specific provision in the Host Law that speaks to the inn, at what rate the tax sells the drink that it serves at the table or at what rate the tax sells to the chewing gum. He is here at the merchant stage and as a specialist as a craftsman, as an entrepreneur, knows exactly what the law imposes on him and how to account for the tax. This is the position of the Ministry of Economy. That's all there is to it. The talk was about competition between traders and innkeepers. Once again, the purpose of the law is somehow to help smaller stores. And we believe that large merchants are much more valuable than a few square meters in selling or offering certain products as a service. I mean, the view is that even in some stage of cannibalism, because all the owners of large malls are landlords at guest houses in the same building and will probably not create competition for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Mr. Willie Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u60	The Secretary of State has my support for the partial deregulation and my support for the employment of high school graduates, and my support is lacking only where all conditions for the seller and for the manager are required to be abolished. There's only a difference between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the 1st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Jersich, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u62	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Let me briefly erase the changes to the Consumer Credit Act. We all know that this is a pressing problem in the lender's market, and in particular the problem of borrowers and we are trying to protect consumers or borrowers as much as possible with this amendment of the law. The key proposed amendments to the Consumer Credit Act are as follows; the amendments narrow the scope of the exceptions to which the law applies compared to the current provision under which the law does not apply to credit contracts with a maturity of up to three months and up to the amount of three times the guaranteed gross personal income is deleted in this amendment. In practice, there have been abuses by non-bank lenders in the way that they entered into several successive credit contracts for three months and thus served on the law, and this change was therefore necessary. The next change, which we think is very, very important, is the limitation on the amount of memberships listed in the total cost of credit. We know that in practice there are always holes in the law, and somehow these non-bank lenders invented to raise their margin, their profits at the expense of lenders. In accordance with the European Directive, membership fees are not included in the total cost of credit, which was used by non-bank lenders. The bill suggests that membership costs will not be included, but only up to 2% of the amount of the loan and a maximum of 20 euros of the absolute amount per month. Anything higher will be taken into account in an effective interest rate so that each borrower knows exactly at what price the loan is being leased. The proposal extends the powers of the Office responsible for consumer protection relating to the refusal of an application for authorisation to manage consumer credit procedures. Here, too, practice has shown us that the responsible persons of non-bank lenders who have committed an offence under this law are moving from society to society, opening up new companies and re-utilising their position. Therefore, we will not issue a permit to newly established companies whose responsible persons have already violated the Consumer Credit Act; it is said that the Office will not issue a permit if this law is adopted. The law further extends the tax cases listed for the withdrawal of the authorisation for the provision of consumer credit services, which is once again a novelty for the elimination of such abuses. Finally, it introduces new offences and sanctions for them and changes the amount of fines for individual offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the President, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the Committee's report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-worker and co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! My report will be very brief, as was the very short debate on this point at the Committee on the Economy, which considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act at its 37th meeting, 7.11.2007. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The comments of the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the Committee adopted these amendments. At the meeting of the committee, the representative of the Government presented the objectives and main solutions of the law. The new law essentially means additional protection of the consumer as an economically weaker article. We have just heard from the Secretary of State about the main solution and the objectives of the law, so I will not repeat this. The amendments adopted are, as usual, included in the amended bill and this complementary proposal is an integral part of the report you have before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please, Mr. Willy Rezman, you have the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Well, in the Consumer Credit Act, the Secretary of State has more unconditional support from me and from the DeSUS Group than from the law that we have dealt with just now. We believe that this law is well prepared, has good solutions and will also have good consequences for borrowers. Otherwise, if I make a literal statement, this bill could have the title "how to stop rags" because that is what this is about. It describes, not in the introduction, more in the explanations of articles proposed, what is actually going on and what is the ingenuity, how people who have money can pander and who offer money to those who do not have money, who are potentially in distress and who are willing to do a lot of things, just to resolve this crisis. Thus, the bill helps those in distress, or borrowers in general, to overcome and bridge possible gaps in which they could collapse at their first, first, indiscretions, and secondly because they are not as skilled at dancing in these financial markets as those who, of course, do it as their day-to-day work and who are also specialized in how to better inform as it is necessary to hide any weaknesses. And this bill also eliminates at least part of what is called poor information. With these proposals, the proposer is expanding measures that speak of the need to protect borrowers and, as far as this is concerned, has our full support. It also has our support when it exacerbates either offences or sanctions for offences or fines and gives more power to those who supervise this area of the market. We are pleased to note that those who once abused their position can no longer repeat this and can therefore no longer obtain permission to enter into credit transactions. We agree that this is also sharpened so that it can be taken away from those who are engaged in unscrupulous business, this right, and we agree that it can also limit business for as long as the weaknesses that occur do not come to an end. Therefore, because the proposer has drafted a proposal for a law that is in favour of borrowers, which limits the possibility of abuse, which limits the ambitions of dumplings, this proposal will be unanimously supported by the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. In practice, non-bank loan providers have found a number of asides to bypass the consumer credit law that protects borrowers. Thus, one of the most common violations is the concealment of actual interest costs, and we welcome in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group the amendment of the law that will further regulate the consumer credit market. New amendments and additions shall narrow the cost cycle, which shall not be included in the total cost of the loan. In addition, the determination of exceptions not covered by the law to extend the capacity of the competent authority to refuse an application for consumer credit authorisation. The powers of the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia to act in the event of detected infringements are also extended. This further seeks to protect the consumer as an economically weaker party. It is also worth noting that the law was also based on warnings of infringements by market inspectors detected on the ground. This has ensured that the amendment of the law will work well in practice. However, it is important to warn the borrowers that, unfortunately, 100% of the protection is not that they need to take good care of whom they hire a loan to read a good loan contract, especially a small print, and to seek suitable or authorized financial and legal advisers. We will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u70	Nice to meet you again. Nice greeting to all the visitors on the balcony. The main purpose of the proposed amendments and the addition of the consumer credit law is to further protect a consumer who is an economically weaker customer in a credit relationship. There have been derogations in the implementation of the law, which seek to eliminate by amending the law. In particular, there are abuses in the conclusion of successive credit contracts for three months and the charging of unjustified membership fees as an increase in the profits of non-bank lenders. The proposal narrows the scope of the exceptions to which the law does not apply, broadens the possibility for the competent authority to reject an application for consumer credit authorisation and extends the powers of the supervisory authority to act in the event of infringements identified. The amendment contains a limited amount of membership fees which are not included in the total cost of credit. In Novi Slovenija we particularly welcome these changes in the law, as there have been major abuses and exploitations of non-bank lenders. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill because it is intended to protect the consumer as a weaker party. In view of the preparation of the new European Consumer Credit Directive, we expect a new law to deal with consumer credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And Mr Kristijan Janc on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u72	Thank you very much again, chairman. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Greetings to the young men on the balcony. When the Council of the Bank of Slovenia adopted the Financial Stability Report this spring, it noted, among other things, that the risk exposure arising from the increasing indebtedness of the population and businesses and the introduction of new financial instruments is increasing relatively rapidly; the indebtedness of households is thus increasing and is about 26% of the gross social product. Despite the greatest debt of the population so far, debt is still relatively low compared to the euro area countries. In fact, the debt of the population has become a necessity, mainly due to less and less affordable housing, as a prerequisite for the independence of an individual who wants to have an apartment or who wants to create a family. In view of the fact that many individuals are unable to obtain loans or loans from banks or savings banks, either for the purpose of purchasing real estate or for other purposes, different consumer credits in which non-subjects are often chosen, even for several entities. In doing so, they often accept conditions that are, in fact, unacceptable and burdensome in the long run, to the extent that they often lose a large part of their assets. The Consumer Credit Act aims to protect the consumer or borrower as a weaker customer in the credit relationship to which this Act applies. The proposed amendment to the law follows an even stricter protection of the consumer. In particular, it provides for fewer exceptions to which the law does not apply and defines the classification of credits in the category as regards ringability and the amount of the amounts. In particular, it is important to extend the powers of the Consumer Protection Office with regard to the refusal of an application for authorisation of consumer credit services. New infringements and sanctions also provide additional protection for consumers. The emergence of a large number of lenders offering different credits requires clearer and strict legislative regulation, and we therefore support the proposed amendment. However, of course, I cannot help but overtake the decision to rent a certain loan, which also assumes full responsibility for the recovery of a given loan by signing the contract. The rule of law cannot affect areas which are in accordance with the law, even if they have negative consequences for consumers. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this amendment of the law is welcome on the basis of what has been said and we will also unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the amended bill today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the first item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that's another defensively proposed law on international protection. As part of the regular procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Zinrajh, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, distinguished Members, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on International Protection will systematically regulate the entire area of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a roof law containing substantive and procedural provisions of international protection. The adoption of the law is necessary in order to fully transpose the provisions of the Common European Asylum System into the national legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. Its purpose is to introduce legal, effective and rapid asylum procedures that provide the necessary protection of third-country nationals and enable them to integrate into Slovenian society and, in the event of a negative decision, the immediate return of foreigners to the country of origin. The law on international protection will replace the law on asylum. The legislative proposal transposes the reception, qualification and procedural directive which forms the legal basis of the common European asylum system and, of course, lays down the way in which the Dublin and EURODAC Regulations are implemented. On the basis of the Hague Programme and the Green Papers on the future of the Common European Asylum System, the countries of the European Union will simplify the practice and functioning between asylum authorities by 2010. The content of the proposed law is based on considerable consideration based on experience and administrative and judicial practice and coordination. The area of international protection will be regulated in a comparable and harmonised manner after the adoption of the law by other Member States of the European Union. A wide range of areas governed by the law are significantly higher than the directives themselves which form a single European asylum system. The proposer used the option set out in the Directive and introduced more favourable standards than the minimum laid down in the Directive when he concluded that this was necessary. In defining family members, the proposal for a family member extends to parents of unaccompanied minors, which is a higher standard, since both directives, reception and qualification, only the spouses of the applicant and the extra-marital partner and the minors of this couple determine where they have them. For the sake of the legal safety of applicants, the proposal retains a three-step procedure of international protection in all cases, as stated by the Ministry, the Administrative Court, the Supreme Court, which is a significant deviation from the minimum standards of the procedural directive, which we have already mentioned. This provides only that any decision of the Authority must be subject to judicial protection. I would also like to add that, following a decision by the Supreme Court, each applicant also has the possibility of a constitutional appeal. The draft law preserves the scope and type of rights of refugees and persons who have been granted subsidiary protection. The exception is only permanent residence permit. The refugee automatically obtains a permanent residence permit and the grant of a residence permit for three years, of course with the possibility of an extension of two years, leading to a long-term status in the final stage. Through the adoption of the law, integration houses will be set up to adjust the people who have obtained international protection. As an aid to integration, the proposal provides that the cost of nostrating a diploma for persons who have obtained international protection shall be borne by the Ministry, which is also one of the higher standards, as laid down in the Qualifications Directive itself. Beyond the obligations imposed by the Directives, the proposal for a law introduces a new chapter on permanent relocation to the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of so-called codes. In the deep belief that in many refugee camps, people who have escaped persecution in their country of origin live in conditions that are not suitable for permanent regulation of life, the bill introduces a chapter on admission to Slovenia on the basis of an annual quota with a view to permanent integration. This topic is highlighted in particular by the European Commission's Green Paper on the future common asylum system. A permanent settlement is a sign of international solidarity and burden sharing, thereby reducing the problems they face immediately after they have saved their lives by running away. The proposal gives particular concern to vulnerable groups, both refugees and persons with recognised subsidiary protection, as it allows for positive discrimination in material reception, health care, psychological counselling and care conditions. For example, applicants shall be allowed to place in their proceedings an official person of the female sex and an interpreter. In the event that the applicant is unable to participate independently in the proceedings because of a permanent and temporary disturbance, he shall be appointed by the local competent social work centre as the custodian. An amendment has been adopted in the course of consideration on the home labour body, which provides for the mandatory adoption of a sub-legislative act specifying the conditions and ways of ensuring the rights of special care and taking care of these vulnerable groups. In the case of a foreigner who expresses the need for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia, the police shall note only his identity and the way in which he has come shall adopt a statement on the grounds for international protection, and shall immediately refer him to the authority responsible for conducting the international protection procedure. By adopting the amendment to Article 36, which deals with this area, it is thus removed, in our opinion, any doubt as to the role of the police in the process of international protection. An amendment has also been adopted in the proceedings on the home working body, which makes it possible to enforce the decision only when the decision is legally binding. The proposal provides that the action before the Administrative Court and the appeal before the Supreme Court are, therefore, all the substantive decisions issued in the regular and accelerated proceedings have a suspensive effect. The draft law has been commented on by the High Commissioner for Refugees of the United Nations, as well as by some NGOs. The drafter carefully examined all the comments and took them into account. It should be reiterated, however, that the transposition of directives into domestic law is an obligation of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask Vice-President Srečk Hvauc to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 38th meeting, on 8.11.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on international protection submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the ordinary legislative procedure. On 10.7.2007, a group of Members with the first-signed Aleš Gulic requested a general debate on the bill. The National Assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 31st regular meeting on 2.10.2007 and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. At its 27th meeting, on 7.11.2007, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed petitions and human rights and equal opportunities, which drew up an opinion on this proposal. At the beginning of the discussion, the representative of the applicant presented the basic principles, the essential solutions and the brief content of the bill with some emphasis in the context of the supplementary explanation. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service mentioned in the introduction that the service made comments on the individual article of the bill and on the title of one chapter. She explained that some of the comments were taken into account in the individual amendments tabled in the draft law. In particular, it highlighted the comments of the service on Articles 10, 50 and 77 and on the transitional and final provisions of the proposal. Mag. Majda Potrat, President of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, presented an opinion drawn up by the Commission. The representative of the NGO Legal Information Centre pointed out that, in their view, the bill has higher standards in some parts than the current regulation, but that in some parts the proposal does not comply with the Geneva Convention. The representative of Amnesty International Slovenia explained that they had been formally involved in the drafting of the bill and said that they estimated that the level of certain rights could be higher than the current regulation. The representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr Lloyd Dakin, said that the High Commissioner and the proposer had participated in the drafting of the law and that some comments had been taken into account and some were included in the proposed amendments. It assesses, however, that the law would be adopted in contravention of the Geneva Convention. Various opinions were presented in the ensuing debate. In particular, the representatives of the opposition pointed out that the proposal was not aimed at strengthening fundamental human rights and freedoms and that the representative of the applicant did not take into account the comments they considered justified. However, the representatives of the position pointed out that the draft law did not in any way contravene international law, especially the Geneva Convention, and that a large number of amendments had been tabled following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the applicant then responded to some of the allegations, in particular those made by the High Commissioner's representative. He denied that the bill was prepared in contravention of international law. He explained that the provisions of the Geneva Convention were interpreted differently and that some positions were different from those of the Commissioner. The Committee further adopted the amendments to Articles 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 13, 21, 24, 25, 36, 37, 50 and 51 and the amendments to Chapter 5 and to the amendments to Articles 56, 57, 58, 59, 70, 72, 73, 74, 88, 92, 93, 104 and 134 of the proposal. He also accepted his amendment to Article 78. After the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together. An integral part of this report is supplemented by a proposal for a law incorporating amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at the 31st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 20.11.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you. In the Group of Members, we will indeed make an amendment to Article 13, either one or the other, given that only one of them can be admitted, but in some ways they are covering the same matter, we will support it. We didn't file it ourselves because it was already done, and that doesn't mean we don't support it. It is not only supported by us, but also supported by those NGOs that have prepared in this law - one 30, the other 40 pages of comments on the Law on International Protection, which they believe, I think, even after being considered by the Committee of the National Assembly, that it still does not correspond to those solutions which they have advocated in the comments, in the performance within the National Assembly, within the Committee of the National Assembly and also in their analyses. This article seeks to remedy the abolition of free legal aid, the amendment returns it, free legal aid at first stage and also the appointment of refugee advisers in the manner proposed. I should say, however, that the law as drafted by the Government does not fully comply with the standards that the State of Slovenia should have. He's ready in, I'll say, some twisted way. Indeed, we all know that, at the beginning of its rule, the Government adopted the Asylum Act, which some Members sent to the Constitutional Court because it was inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of certain articles of this contested Asylum Act. The Ministry was obviously aware that this detention would have another effect when it finally intervened in its decision, and in this case, the Ministry replaced the previous law with this law, of course, under some pretext that the Directives were included or implemented, which we consider to be already included in the previous Act, is said in the 2005 Act. There the standards were better; there the standards of protection were significantly more consistent with international rules, including the Geneva Treaty. That is why we believe, perhaps to a lesser extent than we have seen on the Committee, when some amendments have been accepted, that they are still insufficient to the issues that we have raised and that have also been presented by the representatives of the PC, Amnesty and the High Commissioner on the home committee. I will continue to stress not only the open questions relating to Article 13 but also later to the other amendments to the other articles, but let me say this, however, that the Government defends these solutions if this law speeds up procedures. That's what they say, in those exceptional cases where there's a suspicion of abuse. At the same time, it should be pointed out that 40%, as you say or report, of the cases already dealt with in the ordinary procedure and 60% of those requests in Slovenia are followed by an accelerated procedure. And if applicants who follow an accelerated procedure are discriminatory - if I may use a rather grave term - treated, then the law will not be acceptable to international and, above all, standards for the provision of human rights, because acceleration procedures constitute a restriction of movement or some kind of prison. There are still a lot of questions open here. I am afraid that if these amendments are not accepted, there will be too many of them and that it would be worth listening to these solutions that come from the LDS, SD, and then also from Resa, to the recovery of what else can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u80	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, guests in front of me and above me! Majda Shirca, a colleague, well restored the history of the adoption of this legislation so that she would not repeat and touch Article 13. In fact, we are amending it mainly because the abolition of free aid at first stage, the appointment of a refugee adviser and the way in which the representation award is determined are not regulated in a manner consistent with the Constitution. It is a story that is somewhat repeated not only in this law, but also in other and other departments. But by abolishing free assistance to applicants for international protection at the first stage, of course, the standard is lower and it makes the exercise of rights more difficult. However, I can believe that this is in line with international treaties, international regulations, directives and so on, but we know that, of course, all these matters, when these are based recommendations, are made to the level of a common denominator and of course never cover the full content. Here, the country of Slovenia, or the bill-maker, is actually blinding all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and also those who might once in the future come across our borders and ask for asylum. Free legal aid had already been abolished by amending the Asylum Act in 2006, and we did not, of course, agree in the Liberal Democracy since we did not agree to lower the standards obtained in these asylum procedures. It is necessary to know that the law on international protection is essentially an asylum law, which has now been renamed, and it is again a "bypass" over all that is in force in civilized societies. We have already warned, and today, that such measures can in fact prevent the exercise of the right to asylum, or now to international protection, in order to reduce the legal protection of asylum seekers, who in the country where they have fled from the threat of their home country find themselves poorly: they do not know the language, they do not know our complex legal system, they are usually without financial means to pay for such services themselves, and they do not have the opportunity to take advantage of the so-called right of the poor and to ask for free legal assistance under the law on free legal aid. Of course, we are warning this amendment and we are trying to solve what we can do. It is necessary to take into account the specific situation of applicants for international protection, which is required in legal and factual terms. Applicants should have access to this free legal aid, which is also reflected in Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Human Freedoms, which requires everyone to have the right to legal advice, defence, representation and legal assistance to be accessible to those who do not have sufficient resources if such legal assistance is necessary for the effective exercise of rights. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have therefore assessed that access to this free legal aid is at the first stage of decision-making in different interests; it is in the public interest and also in the interest of applicants for international protection and ultimately the interest of the state of Slovenia, because of the reputation it wants to maintain, for which it wants to be greater in the world. This free legal aid, which is intended to be granted, thus reduces the likelihood of further judicial protection in different proceedings, proceedings before the Administrative Court or the Supreme Court and, of course, the costs involved. The second thing that this amendment solves is the arrangement which gives the Ministry of the Interior the power to appoint refugee advisers. The Ministry of the Interior is, in the first instance, in the procedure of international protection, a decision-making body which already decides on the applicant's application for international protection, and even a counterparty in legal proceedings, creating a conflict of interest. And we all know it's not good that the defendant is also a judge. This is an old knowledge that the proposalr obviously failed to take into account and did just as he did. Such arrangements under which a party has the right to decide in proceedings, who and under what conditions may represent the counterparty shall not be acceptable. Moreover, this is substantively the case in the area of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we propose that these procedures be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. In this way, with the amendment to Article 14, we would resolve quite a few puzzles and appeal to all Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So I would like to say some of the principled things that could and should be said under any amendment that will be discussed today. Indeed, all the amendments are considered to have been submitted in order to at least try, as colleague Gulič said, to resolve what to do. Indeed, we cannot be content with this law. Moreover, it seems to us, or as many as possible, that the motioner actually wanted to bypass the Constitutional Court's decision to postpone the individual articles because we have addressed to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the conformity of individual articles with the Constitution in the belief that these articles are incompatible with the Constitution and that they mean, if their implementation occurs, a serious obstacle to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Republic of Slovenia and to respect the standard of protection and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms already achieved in Slovenia, which we are so keen to invoke when we enter Europe. I think this is also important because, after all, we adopt this law just before the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and, in fact, through such a law as is proposed and without these amendments, we tell the European Union how much we really feel about guaranteeing standards for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and how we understand the rule of law and how we understand the constitutionality, legality and trust in law. This time we are once again witnessing the same manner of the current government to intervene at any time in legislation that sets standards for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, to lower these standards, to tighten the field of freedom and to refer to certain minimum standards that may apply to many people in the European Union, and at home to implement such low or minimum standards there are no specific reasons, since we have met these higher standards well in Slovenia so far. Minister Mate also assured the Home Labour Committee, the Internal Policy Committee, when we considered this law, that there had been a drastic decline in the granting of refugee or asylum status and that there was no need to lower these standards. My explanation is also that, of course, there has been a drastic decline in the number of granting refugee or asylum status also due to the fact that a new law on asylum has already been introduced, where this police pre-trial procedure, which has been put in place, has been put into place, hand-to-heart, to actually prevent the granting of asylum status. And then, of course, this law, which we are talking about today, is essentially restricting the legal remedies available to asylum seekers, also restricting the accessibility of the procedure itself and, to a greater extent than necessary, is restrictive in restricting movement. And, of course, he is trying to re-initiate the procedure that the Constitutional Court has stated, it is said that it has stalled the application of this particular article. I really don't understand this manner and the proposaler of this law, how he really doesn't care if he doesn't respect the other, if he doesn't already respect the opposition proposals, at least the Constitutional Court ruling, which, of course, he is obliged to respect in our constitutional order. I would also like to say that this law is, in its entirety, contrary to our Constitution, in particular as regards proportionality, when it comes to human rights restrictions, because on the other hand, there must be some restriction on human rights in proportion to the interest of the State being protected here. Like public order or something. In this respect, the law is able to read a number of things, and it is also able to state that it does not fully respect the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees, nor does it respect the new Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the European Union, but of course it does not respect it, but this would be a superstandard, for example, two decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the Jabari case against Turkey and the case Hylal v United Kingdom, where the European Court also made clear or confirmed international standards of effective legal protection. So, I don't know why it is necessary, with such ignorance, to ignore the well-intentioned proposals and warnings of NGOs operating in the Republic of Slovenia, to ignore and detract from the proposals of the High Commissioner for Refugees in Slovenia, and why, in fact, with such a magnitude and force of the Rhine in something that Slovenia does not need in this area, we simply don't need because of the smaller number of asylum seekers in order to introduce such a rigorous system or so rigorous measures. With regard to this specific amendment to Article 13, I would state the same reasons in favour of this amendment as my colleague Gulič before me, it is said that the Ministry of Justice should appoint a refugee adviser, since the Ministry of the Interior is at the first stage only a decision-making body on the applicant's application, and in legal proceedings there is even a counterparty and there may be a conflict of interests between the two. That is how I would ask my fellow Members to vote on this amendment to support it when we vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So, I would like to continue to say that this law was created on the basis of some common asylum procedure of the European Union. This is said to have been some kind of agreement at the level of the European Union, but what was acceptable to all countries. This is the smallest group of denominators of what Member States are also obliged to do and what they have agreed to do. That's the first one. This is said to be no violation of some of the principles of the European Union, for then the European Union as a whole is in breach of certain laws. And you probably won't say that, so that's what's already attracted to hair. Next, I would like to point out that Slovenia is responsible for the entire European Union with the so-called Schengen border next year with 1.1. We are now the gateway to the EU. What will happen at our border will also have consequences in Ireland, Great Britain, Portugal, Spain, anywhere in the EU. Next, we have adopted by this law everything that is recommended in this single EU asylum procedure. Even more, we have on a certain substandard segment, if I can use this term, we are giving ourselves something more than an agreement at the EU level. We give more. But we give in the area that is also the most sensitive, that is in children without parents, I think in protecting mothers and women, something would probably happen. All right, we've given it, the richest of all don't give it, and we've proved ourselves here, I don't know if we're richer or those who have more understanding, or whether the third option is, which I won't mention, but everyone can think for themselves what they want to say. No one can tell us anything about giving less than the richest EU countries. Next, I do not agree with what is stated in the explanatory memorandum to Article 13 that the provision is a step towards a drastic reduction in the legal protection of applicants, which is uncritically summarised under the procedural directive. What EU members have agreed is meant here. Please! The latter called for strong opposition from many organisations operating in the field of human rights, asylum, Amnesty International, Human Rights and so on, as well as the European Parliament. Come on! If the European Parliament were opposed or at least the majority in the European Parliament, then this smallest common denominator of the common asylum European procedure would not be different. It is said, it is again something for the hair drawn, which is one way or another with us in recent times, that we have been making up and if we have to lie. Look, I'm just wondering what happened now that we're watching bulldozers in Italy levelling the land of foreign settlements, especially those from the eastern part of the EU, when they're being sent back to Bucharest for 78 euros. I wonder if their constitutional court will keep such a law, too. Forgive the bulldozers who operate foreign settlements. I'm just curious. Next, I would like to ask you if there are any protests from your side about what is going on in Italy. Aren't you going to send 320 addresses to the EU, to all the presidents of the countries, to the governments, and what do I know about everything else, but I don't know, maybe journalists, what's going on in Italy? Test if you already write on 320 titles that are camps for Roma in Slovenia. Write down what's going on in Italy and protest! They'll probably listen to you because they watch bulldozers on TV every day and elsewhere in some other media, what they do in Italy. Protest. Next, I would like to say that the law, which is, of course, I support, despite the introduction of superstandards, but in those areas where I support myself. This is because we would not want the Netherlands to happen to us. Those of you who have been in Parliament for a long time will remember that one of the Members of the then ruling coalition, the largest party, has threatened to bring us - and I think - a Member from the Netherlands, which we later found to be from a lesbian community, but was a Member of the European Parliament, who is supposed to teach us how to treat foreigners in the Netherlands. But, look, one good mandate is over, and what is happening in the Netherlands is now: from the most liberal country that has been too liberal, it has become the most conservative in Europe. I will not remind you of everything that has happened in the Netherlands, everything that has burned down, religious facilities, foreign schools - because they were the most liberal, and anyone who wanted to come could have come to the Netherlands and probably had more rights. But when they started cutting their necks and stuff, things got a little different. Today, there's a very black picture. And we wouldn't want anything like this to happen to us, so it's better to prevent it than to see something like this happen later. Speaking of free legal aid. Yeah, it's nice, it's all good, but let me remind you how much we, as citizens, have the possibility of free legal aid. Let us write out how to petition our legal authorities to have lower tariffs! Write down, maybe someone else on our side will sign to have lower legal aid tariffs. Also, Slovenians would have free assistance, I don't know where we don't have it now, where it hasn't been possible so far, but the tariffs are low. That's what you're asking, because we pay taxes. But for us who pay taxes: expensive legal aid, high tariffs, for foreigners - I cannot help, I am also sorry if this happens to come to our border, but so - for them it would be free. Come on, let's have a little bit, I don't know, balance, what we can afford ourselves, for us, for our citizens who pay taxes, and what we can give to strangers. What is agreed at the level of the European Union - okay, something more - is also fine, but not at all. That's not gonna work. And I really miss the protests, if this is so badly arranged at this level, send it to some 300 titles across Europe, and point out what's going on in Italy, how they violate human rights there! You haven't done anything before! Write a petition that legal aid should be cheaper for us too, Slovenians, so that the tariffs are not so high. Write it down! Then perhaps such an amendment will be acceptable, and all that will come. I've already stepped a little further to the next amendment, so that I don't have to get a call from you later, and my colleagues will tell you theirs. So this basic text is completely enough for me. And I think that Slovenia has turned out to be better than the average of the European Union. If we are giving more than some of the most developed European countries that we are trying to catch up with, then I think we are giving more and more of a good example, we are not a bad example to the European Union. It is therefore appropriate to write on 320 titles, where it has been sent, that the European Union is a poor example or that it is even dangerous for the European Union. Do it again, my respectable fellows! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr Petan, it is no wonder that you did not understand us correctly because you obviously do not understand or know the legislative powers of the European Union. That's why you talked about the European Parliament this way, as you just said. It is, however, that the European Parliament has, yes, debated very well so far on migration and asylum policies in Europe or in the countries of the European Union, and has also adopted appropriate positions or resolutions on these issues. Well, you wouldn't be talking about bulldozers, because I think it's obviously more your topic. There's something else. Today we are not talking about illegal immigrants, which you were actually talking about, but we are talking about asylum seekers. That's something completely different. It is a particularly vulnerable group seeking asylum in a country because it comes from its own country because it has serious reasons to fear, for example, for its survival because it is politically or otherwise discriminated against. So let's not mix illegal immigrants with asylum seekers, because these are two different categories of people. Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the field of international protection, the European Union has set minimum standards to be respected by the Member States of the European Union. Slovenia has set these standards or arrangements for international protection in this law much higher than the minimum standards set by the European Union. And compared to other Member States, these standards are one of the highest. That is why I cannot understand the vehement and demeaning talk about Slovenia and also internationalise it by sending certain things to the world and to Europe that are demeaning Slovenia in this area. This is rude and very vile behavior. As far as it is clear, it is incredible that this law, or this amendment, is speeding up procedures and that this would be a reduction in the rights of those people who are in these procedures for the protection of rights. So, but it's speed, a quick procedure just for the benefit of all the people in the process. The sooner the process is concluded, the more it is in their favor, the less it is here to challenge it, the more it is unheard of. Just the opposite. And when we talk about this specific amendment and free legal aid, of course, it must be said that free legal aid is provided under this law for all proceedings before the Administrative and Supreme Court. Therefore, something is guaranteed which is not guaranteed to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is where it's guaranteed. So, very high standard! But when we talk about other procedures before the case comes to court, if it comes, of course, these are proceedings before the police authorities and so on, and of course everything is also guaranteed there. All fundamental procedural rights, fundamental procedural guarantees, are guaranteed to be informed in an understandable language, to translate everything necessary to teach them about his rights and obligations and so on. He has access to all interpretation services or anything that he can benefit from in this process. So, a huge, very high standard, yet you say that Slovenia acts machetely, and you even speak ill of the conduct of Slovenia abroad, which is unheard of to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u90	The amendment, in the New Slovenia Group we will not support, but I would like to say that we believe that the proposal for an international protection law is solid and that it is a solid regulation of this area, that it adapts to changes and that it constitutes harmonisation of the laws of the Member States of the European Union. I know that the demands and expectations of NGOs on this issue are high, and so are they. However, it is right that they are willing to take into account the fact that the situation in the country is real and real. I think that the Government and the legislator must weigh - on the one hand between the situation of vulnerable persons, which refugees are undoubtedly, and on the other hand between the standards that the country can offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you very much. So we are with Article 13 and the amendment of the LDS and SD groups of Members. On the basis of the Members' wishes, I will open another application circuit. Here you go, please. Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In my opinion, the law itself gives enough of the standards and privileges to foreigners who come to our country in one way or another. Therefore, I certainly cannot support the amendments to Article 13, not the first and not the second. However, I would like to say to my well-respected colleagues from the coalition: I have heard the word "write" four times for the Slovenians, that the Slovenians will also receive such support and I will say such "superstandards" in slogans as proposed by this law for foreigners. I must say that I fully agree with you at this stage, but I was sure that the government would do this in three years and allow them to do this in excess of their standards. I am also sure that at least most Members of the ruling coalition are literate, and I do not know why they do not write it themselves. The opposition would probably have some kind of co-signatory on their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirco to my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u94	If my statistics are true, then last year there are 400 asylum seekers' applications, of which 9 were positively resolved. NGOs, I know, have applied to the asylum sector for documentation and an insight into why the State of Slovenia has not granted six Iraqi asylum seekers the right to asylum. Our e-mails, probably not just mine, have been sent requests to possibly try to get to the bottom, I think more than one year of waiting for two asylum seekers from Kosovo who have asked for asylum based on sexual orientation. I mean, maybe I'm wrong, you have a chance to tell me whether they were comfortable or not, and why not? But what we're hearing today isn't right. czš, we are back on this shadowy side of the Alps, why in Slovenia we would be better than elsewhere in the world. Not only today, but also on a committee where there are a lot of facts and contradictions to this law, the representative of UNMIK, Mr Deikin, as well as Amnesty, as well as the PIC, has also expressed the thought of not saying a kind of philosophy, why in a specific situation such as Slovenia, they would be so attentive to others. We have enough problems of our own, why should we be more exemplary? Let's see how insensitive they are elsewhere in the world. Today, we hear more about why Slovenia would be better than Italy, why would we force it into some liberalism than she knew it, and what the Netherlands knows about it, because it eventually lands in extreme conservativeism, and let's see what happens to it. In short, why would we protect human rights? That's what we're asking again. And to ask ourselves this question before the Presidency of the European Union, it is not good. It is not good to push ourselves again on this shadowy side of the Alps, where human rights can be somewhat defiled, because after all those asylum seekers who are coming have something behind them, and they also have certain reasons that do not need to be understood generously. Slovenia will chair the European Union by means of laws that do not protect full human rights. The Presidency, which will take place in the light and under the slogan of intercultural dialogue, with an important theme, at this time Slovenia does not want to hold a conference on the Roma issue, which was not triggered in our space, Slovenian space. During the presidency, which will take place in the fight against cancer, Slovenia is waiting to receive vaccination against the HPV virus, which would limit and limit the disease of women after cancer. And during the presidency, which will take place in the wake of a tolerant dialogue, Slovenia, for example, does not wish to criminalise the hate speech. No, we do not, we deal with trust, we deal with, instead of exposing and displaying all the topics in some way sensibly, for the most painful points of today's day, the issue not only of migration, but of political and other prisons around the world is growing all day long, it is painful, it needs to be deepened, it needs to be addressed and it needs to be addressed in a way that can be exemplary, but not that that somehow still holds something under the table. Instead of all the darkness being exposed, they are pushed under the table, and the Prime Minister wants to silence everything in order, but at this time certain themes will be under the table, and yet we do not need to talk about those things that hurt us. They are not only hurting us in Slovenia, they are hurting not only in the European Union, but also outside, because the world is dealing with problems and is trying to regulate them, including with, say, a certain regulation that I think Slovenia could arrange better than this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor of my fellow Member, Mr Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that I will not support this amendment, because of some of my beliefs, as well as the belief of the Slovenian People's Party that we support the solution proposed by the proposer, especially because the whole range of NGOs actually recognises that the law is written in several places by exercising some of the superstandard rights that are established in this law. Of course, some are just as much as the European acquis does. However, I do not believe that, after all the explanations I have heard, there is, in fact, a lower right that is supposed to be guaranteed by the legal order of the European Union. Given that we are a small country, that we are still in transition, that we are a country that is not yet at the peak of economic power, because also offering all these rights is linked to the situation in our own country, in the economic power of the domestic population, or what I have heard in previous speakers, I agree that we must not exaggerate the rights of some groups, but now, however this may sound, then the domestic society can be thrown out of balance and then some extremes that we will later find very difficult or we will be very difficult to get rid of. Perhaps it is a topic of overlying rights, which would even in certain places go beyond the rights that domestic people may have, so that it would not be right. I would also say that I think that going to some competition between the parties in relatively sensitive areas is not the right thing to do. Of course, everyone evaluates these matters by what it brings to him. I would also say that I feel that it is not good or that it is not necessary for us to be in the full range of things or always try to be in the first place. I think it is enough that Slovenia is a good average European country right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u97	Thank you very much. And I'm opening a new circuit application. Here you go, please. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u98	Thank you very much. That was already too much of what we heard from Mrs Shirca, who claimed that we were advocating human rights violations. By what is written here, we advocate human rights violations. How can you say something like that when all the standards laid down by the European Union are ensured by your directive? And even more than that, more than the minimum standards laid down by the European Directive. But you're saying we're violating human rights. That's too much. And this is how you demean and black out our country. And when we're talking about free legal aid. Look. This is not about the fact that free legal aid should now also be introduced for Slovenian citizens. Free legal aid is a legal institute used in exceptional cases. For Slovenian citizens, when it comes to socially disadvantaged people, this is guaranteed to them. In this case, they shall be provided in proceedings before the Administrative and Supreme Court. A very high standard is what I guarantee these refugees who come into our procedure. But just as wide to exaggerate as Mr Drofenik said, of course, it does not work. This is not the case for these categories of people, nor is it for Slovenian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your explanation. Reploco, Ambassador Shirtz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u100	Mr. Kovacic sometimes hears in half, or hears what he wants to hear. I talked about not only today; today, to a lesser extent, given that very few Members and Members of Parliament are interested in this law; but also on a committee where representatives of civil and other organisations have also been alerted to what they have written, as I say, on the 70th pages. Some of this has also been heard and accepted. And they cautioned that a harmonised law was being adopted internationally and also for human rights. But philosophy prevailed, why, however, why it was necessary to respect human rights to that extent and at all costs, so I also said, to respect human rights, czech, look at other countries, which is carrying out international protection at such high standards and 100%, why some, because we do not need to be so exemplary - I talked about it. But to speak today of what we have heard from my predecessors, that with human rights we should not exaggerate: "Why should we exaggerate, let us take them for a little while, why should we be so generous, then always bring us into excessive liberalism, which then ends with punishment." That's not gonna work. They're human rights. And they're not one of the more important ones, one of the less important ones, one of the less attractive ones. Human rights should be respected as much as possible by Slovenia and other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u101	I'm opening a new application circuit. I'm asking all Members to sign up. Here you go. Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I regret to say to my predecessor that Mr Kovacic is a good listener, and he also reads well. The proposal for this amendment is set out in the explanatory memorandum, in the opinion of those who are listed, which is also joined by Slovenian NGOs, that the proposal is contrary to the Charter of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms adopted within the framework of the European Union. Implementation of the provisions of the procedural directive means this single asylum procedure and within the internal administration of the Member States would constitute a breach of their obligations in the refugee [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] the right to human rights. [[...]] Yes, this has been written down, ladies and gentlemen, by the honourable Member. That's what you wrote. I'm not saying you are, but you're defending this. That's black on white. And don't tell us now that we hear it as it suits us. That's not true. You wrote it. And what I'd like to tell you. You used to say a lot about what you were supposed to do during the presidency, what kind of laws you were supposed to adopt. I'm sorry, because the presidency is not Tomkin's village, when we build the village of Tomkin in these six months, we're going to adopt laws that will, I don't know, please. I don't know who, but let's say you agree with them, that would be good for the European Union. The laws will stay, and we will no longer preside. This law will probably remain, I don't know, two, three, five, ten years until another solution is adopted at the level of the European Union that may be a little better or worse. It could get worse. Depending on the situation in the world and these six months, it is thought that someone is leading the European Union, and this is an opportunity for us to appear in general. But I'm sorry, I've never seen statistics, whether it's at the level of the United Nations or the European Union, showing countries differently than: area, population, national income, income per capita. However, I have never seen a section on the asylum process in this country, but only gross national income. And our job is to show in these six months what we have, because we're on, as it's called, a tray that everybody can watch us, everyone who wants can come to us, delegations can come to us, and we can show what we have, not build scenes for six months, and then what happens will be. At this time, we need to use propaganda to show what we really are, not what we want to be, but to build some scenes, some Pomky's village. But we have an opportunity, because otherwise we should pay for the advertisement to have it for free, because others simply come to us and write about us, report us, and that is why it is so harmful if you send it to 320 addresses or your colleagues, and they black out Slovenia to violate human rights, as you wrote here. If a foreign journalist were to watch this now, I'd say, "How the hell do they violate human rights?" That's what you wrote. And that's a signal that's a little bit different from what you'd like when you spoke earlier. I know you probably thought that Slovenia would be a little nicer, but you don't have to be prettier than it is. We just have a chance to show her what she's like because we're at the center of interest. Thus, in these six months we must be purely normal citizens. Taking advantage of telling others that we are a little better, and even after this law, we are really a little better than those who are already ahead of us, and who are our goal, so we don’t have to be embarrassed, just not such stupid things to write. It's mud, it's in style, what's been happening lately, you've written here: "the violation of fundamental freedoms and rights." And then you tell us that we don't listen well or that we want to hear what we want to hear. You wrote that down, and that's why I took the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. But to my word, I invite the Member of the Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree that it is essential, useful, necessary, that in some civilized society, there are also various civil society associations that are concerned with human rights. And since I think that we are such a society, the Internal Policy Committee has been invited and also cooperated, it has explained its views to those who are also performing a noble task. It is true, however, that we have heard different views, different views, different reasons on the committee. And that is exactly the way it is for us to get the right result. I do not agree, however, with the statement of my colleague, Shirca, that it was the wish of these civil associations that were performing there to finally come to an internationally amended and harmonised law. Yeah, what's wrong with this law? The Directive, which is acceptable to the European Union as a whole, is harmonised and offers a superstandard. Then what's not in line with? I just don't get it. Second. A colleague of Shirtz who's just leaving because she obviously doesn't want to listen to what I'm saying, she asked herself [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I'm glad, she asked why we would protect human rights at all, why we wouldn't do it yet, and so we'd probably end up looking like a society that doesn't care about human rights at all. [[..]] We have a law that is Europeanly comparable, which offers more, superstandard in some areas. And I don't agree to any claim that I'm not saying anything worse, that we're, I don't know, a bad society, that we don't want to be better. We are better than many countries in Europe. That's the point, as far as I'm concerned. And I have the feelings of some who listen to us when we talk about people who are really in trouble in a foreign country with their problems, who were probably exposed to impossible pressures at home, but let us not play with the feelings of those who listen to us. We provide these people with admission to an asylum home, we provide treatment in their language, they are aware of the rights, the rules that apply in Slovenia, and they receive free legal assistance in administrative proceedings or at the third stage. And saying that we don't worry about being cruel to these people doesn't seem acceptable to me, so I'm not going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u105	Thank you very much, colleague Happy Hvauc. Since I can see there's still a desire for a debate, I'm opening a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u106	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! There's something I'd like to make clear. In this amendment, there are no accusations of Slovenia, no negative cases, but in explanation we have said some things that are disturbing, which are certainly inconsistent with the Constitution, and some of them are also inconsistent with some purely healthy minds. Above all, we were disturbed by the fact that free legal aid was abolished at the first stage and that the police were the one who was the prosecutor and the judge. That's the two things we put out. Comparably, I very much believe that Slovenia is significantly better than many countries, as regards the treatment of asylum-seekers, political immigrants, economics and so on. But it's something else. We now have a semi-executed asylum law, a proposal for an international protection law and a standard that is from the past, which is also in force. And all I care about is what happens to the curve of protection of asylum rights in Slovenia: whether it falls or stays at the same level or grows. So we're not comparing Italy, Austria, Hungary, Azerbaijan, Zimbabwe and Timbuktu, but comparing it to Slovenia, now, sooner and later. And that's all this is about. Let us try to be such that we do not diminish these rights, that we do not interfere with people, that we do not complicate their lives, and that we do not confuse them with ourselves. That's what this amendment is about, and I think that's why you can support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u108	So no one claims and it is not true that Slovenia is a bad society. However, when we have the opportunity to improve certain things, it is right to try and do so. In this respect, the material signed by Amnesty, the Jesuit Refugee Service, the Peace Institute, the Legal Information Centre, the Slovenian Philanthropy and, on the other hand, the Commissioner and the UNHCR, as well as other civil society organisations were addressed to us. And they asked, let's talk, they also asked the Government to harmonise the 17 essential points covered in some very detailed, perhaps not important, but in life and in practice the always important things that they have put into mind that the proposal of the law, as prepared by the Government, is constitutionally controversial in several cities, both in terms of the existing Slovenian legal order and in terms of international documents that bind the Republic of Slovenia. Something like this, but very little of this, has been saved on the board and we're not talking about this anymore. Some of this is still in the form of an amendment before us. Not many, many articles were closed, but something was also resolved, so 17 points are no longer within these for some and also for me bad arrangements. And there's still a few left. And these institutions have drawn attention to a number of problems, to the problems of the status of third-country nationals, such as translations, police procedures that are still open and are also being amended below, it also refers to short-term procedures where movement restrictions occur, to translation, to the deadline for a constitutional complaint, to the notion of racial harm, to the appointment of refugee advisers, which also remains open, and also to legal assistance. And that for asylum seekers, we have heard that nine of them were approved this year to receive this status, out of 400 applicants in a country in severe, probably traumatized experiences, without language knowledge and in all other circumstances that are not satisfactory and not only emotionally, psychologically and also materially tense, it is not problematic if Slovenia, however, organised some form of unlawful assistance, because there is a formula that exists, if we can certainly make an effort, not just now, perhaps sometimes in the past, to provide these lawyers who are supposed to be so expensive. We could find some ways to help others, not only here, but also to facilitate legal aid, which let's admit, for Slovenian citizens and Slovenian citizens, where this is prescribed, do not always work best. It's not about demagogism, it's about trying to have a better solution. After all, some of these warnings also come from the retention of certain articles of the previous law in the Constitutional Court, which should be better resolved here by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the debate. Here you go, please. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Shirca, with all due respect, but what you're saying is to blur the reality and what you're saying is to manipulate public opinion. See, free legal aid, I have already twice, I think I repeated it, is provided before the Administrative and Supreme Court, and before the trial all the basic procedural guarantees, all the basic procedural guarantees under the European Directive, are provided. And Slovenia is one of the few countries with three-stage judicial protection provided in asylum proceedings. Under the European Directive, it is only possible to have a one-stage level; we have a three-stage level, which is what the European Directive requires, so don't say anything that you probably know you don't hold and want to create a different image in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. May I conclude the debate in connection with the two amendments to Article 13? Thank you. As we say, we are moving on to Article 36 and two amendments, namely the LDS and SD sent groups. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. There's no desire to discuss it. Look, I just opened the procedure, and now you're telling me you didn't sign up for one reason or another. Look, I'll only allow it this time if you don't check in next time, then complain to the professional services or whoever runs the computer devices. I'm reopening the procedure. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your generosity. We have tabled an amendment to Article 36, which in fact also shows our attitude towards an article which is substantively the same as Article 26 in the current law on asylum and which the Constitutional Court has examined and decided in relation to it to hold back its application. The point is that now; and I really do not understand the reasons for the applicant to try to reintroduce this pre-trial procedure, which the policeman has in his hands. We are convinced that a police officer should check only the person who entered the illegal way and when he goes to the police, then the police will only find out his identity, the way he came to the Republic of Slovenia and the related facts. Then, after this completion of the procedure, the officer should refer the applicant for international protection to the authority responsible for the decision on his application, not to the registration sheet itself. So it's not like a cop fills out his license plate himself. We are convinced that decisions in the international protection procedure should be taken fully by the competent authority, including the adoption of a declaration which is a key part of the procedure for obtaining international protection. However, the procedure provided for in this Article, which we are talking about, does not contain the necessary safeguards to ensure that the reasons for international protection are not misjudged and, consequently, to violate the principle of non-refoulement as a fundamental principle of refugee law. This amendment, which we have tabled, seems extremely important to us, and my fellow Members, I ask you to take into account the fact that the Constitutional Court has already retained an identical article of the Asylum Act. And let us, if the proposed law does not already take account of this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u114	Mr. President-in-Office. First, let me tell you that these devices were working, but that I was wrong when I pressured. Thank you for allowing us to speak. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we join these explanations by our colleague Darja Lavtišar Bebler. In fact, it's again a "bypass" attempt, again one of the shortcuts, the fugitive, past the Constitutional Court's decisions. If that's not how it works, it's different. Even with the previous amendment, we've seen that food is free at the bar, only that the entrance is so high that those who want to eat can't go in. We do not challenge the powers of the police in international protection procedures in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Of course, someone has to do this, and it is very important that the police, which has the most fragmented system, sees the identity, identifies the way in which the asylum seeker came to Slovenia, also identifies the relevant facts for the detection of criminal acts. But as inappropriate, we consider the part where a person who entered the Republic of Slovenia is posted to the police station to enter purely lawfully. That's the kind of person the police have nothing to do with. And at a time when it expresses its desire to have asylum in this country to benefit from international protection, it shall be referred to the competent authority. And that's definitely not the police. I will not repeat that the Constitutional Court has already decided on the content, content, of such a text under the Asylum Act. However, it must be said that the competent authorities for the control of crossing the national border and other state authorities or local authorities must send a foreigner to an asylum immediately before the final decision of the Constitutional Court is taken today, as this article is reserved. So this thing exists at this point and therefore Slovenia also has, we will say now, reputation or how you said earlier that we are talking about this matter. Of course, when it's gone, things will be different. In particular, we would like these matters, these rights, these opportunities, to all those seeking refuge in Slovenia, to be made possible. However, the procedure now provided for in this Article 36 does not contain any safeguards to prevent misjudgment, arbitrariness of the grounds for international protection, and also allows this to violate any principle of non-refoulement. That is why we decided to propose this amendment at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Two reasons: one which is of civil and human standards, and the other which is more formal, because the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is proposed by the proposing Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is not taken into account here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the two amendments tabled in Article 36? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 50 and the amendment of the Zares Group. I ask all those you wish to discuss to apply. Here you go. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you. Article 50 Article 74 of this Act should be examined before Article 50, which refers to judicial proceedings. The article is then provided for in legal proceedings, which is fine and fair. In particular, if we look at the third paragraph of Article 74, which states that an action may be brought against all decisions issued under this Act, which means that all rights or judicial protection are guaranteed to the asylum applicant. That's okay. But in article 50, which speaks of the withdrawal of the request, we see a very problematic situation in paragraph 2. Therefore, we also propose that the word "finally" should be replaced by "legislability", which means that the applicant should leave Slovenia immediately after the decision has been reached and not completed. Here we see the possibility that the law can be re-examined in the Constitutional Court, because otherwise, if we did not correct it, a constitutional right to judicial protection could be violated. We wish that, by amending this text, as stated in the second paragraph of Article 50, the applicant should ensure that the decision to suspend the application is provided and not sent to life only after the power of attorney, but after the finality. Here is the big difference when an application is withdrawn, as listed in the above five indents, that is when the applicant specifically requests it in such or otherwise if he does not notify the change of the address and so on. It is very possible to conclude that the applicant must leave the Republic of Slovenia. But it would be right if this decision were legally binding, not final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I also conclude this debate in conjunction with Article 50 and the amendment of the Group of Members. However, I am opening a debate in conjunction with Article 51 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. I am informing the Government that they may be included in the debate if they wish or have comments. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would point to the fact that the accelerated procedure is often only a real advantage to the asylum seeker. Sometimes an accelerated procedure means that the applicant will find it more difficult to enforce his application and establish grounds for eligibility to grant this status, since, given that the applicant is a foreigner who does not know our language, which is usually also a limited movement when he does not have the resources, he is in a more difficult position if he has to apply his intention in an accelerated procedure. The proposal for an international protection law provides for a huge number of cases where the authority may decide on the application in an accelerated procedure. Which, in fact, is only a matter of legalizing administrative practice. Despite the case law, which repeatedly points out that in several cases a regular procedure should be carried out. It is that the new reasons are set out in such a broad and undeclared way that they also interfere with the fundamental principle of the rule of law, that is, 'lex certa', thus allowing a wide field of discretion to the body. Taking into account the fact that the applicant may have a limited movement in this regard, as I said, that the remedy does not have a suspension effect and that the person will not have a free representation, we note that it is unlikely that persons will be able to exercise their constitutional right to protection. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed, and here I would like to stress in particular that an individual has the right to an effective remedy, i.e. one with which he can protect his rights and interests, and has taken the view that the absence of a remedy with a suspensive effect constitutes an infringement of the right to a remedy provided for in Article 25 of our Constitution. For example, new reasons for decision-making in an accelerated procedure are examples where a person does not express his intention to submit an application as soon as possible, citing non-constant statements, for example, for a personal interview where the applicant can clarify the uncertainty and when he does not provide sufficient information on his identity. All of this can be complemented by a personal interview, and it is also in line with the recommendation of the High Commissioner for Refugees to request the submission of formal evidence from applicants. Therefore, it is the decision to conduct such a procedure as an accelerated, manifestly sanction for the applicant who failed to provide such evidence, which is unacceptable. In such cases, the competent authority should explore all relevant facts even more in a regular procedure. It is either logical or normal for asylum seekers to leave their home country without documents and to leave their home country without these documents and are then repeatedly forced to use illegal means, such as counterfeit documents. All of this should, of course, be borne in mind by the legislator and take into account these specific situations and take into account the fact that this is a particularly vulnerable person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. May I conclude the discussion in connection with this article? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u120	When I read this, I kind of lost my content, but now I thank my esteemed colleague, who reminded me of me, and then I went looking for where it was written. In some ways, they dispute the fact that many of the reasons for deciding on the accelerated procedure are, for example, examples where a person does not express his intention to apply immediately. I'm asking you nicely, then what's he doing at the border if he doesn't intend to invest immediately? Then what would you like? So whoever contacts him first will have to ask him to tell him what he's doing at the border and what he wants. If, on this basis, a certain sanction is to be imposed, you object because, I don't know, I should explain to another third body what would have happened there. It just doesn't work. I think that's too much. One who doesn't know what he's doing at our border is said at the EU's external border; he shouldn't even be treated like that, I'm sorry. I understand that half a million people would come who would all know what they want. But we will be busy here and maligning Slovenia as to how much there is in conflict with human rights if it does not know what to do on our borders and what it would like to do: whether it will file an application or not. I understand all the other arguments, i.e. I oppose some. But I just don't understand what we'd like to do if someone didn't intend to file an application right away. I don't know what to do with him and ask him to tell him what he can do and then let him decide for himself. I understand everything else, but I just don't understand that you can even make an amendment because of the text that someone doesn't know what they want to do at our border. And then we should give him the allowance and the possibility of a complaint at three stages, to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is already overcrowded in one way or another with the demands of domestic citizens, who have the right to complain, and we are supposed to be dealing with someone who came from elsewhere. I don't deny that he has no right, of course he has a right, but he doesn't know what to do. And we're wasting our time here today. And let us also write down, excuse me, what you wrote here is that "the proposal is contrary to the Charter of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms adopted within the European Union," and this text was derived from the single asylum procedure of the European Union. How can you write something like that? And, uh, excuse me while I'm at it. [[I'll get back to you later.]] , with regard to the above-mentioned High Commissioner for the Balkans, Mr Lloyd Dakin, mentioned so many times. I talked to him, and I explained everything to him about what this marriage meant, what it was about. Of course, he didn't object. I also explained to him that if he heard anything else about Slovenia, then that is not true, because as generous as Slovenia was for purely all foreigners, even for citizenship in the European Union, it is not. And I'm not going to talk about that category that we're going to talk about later. He took it as a fact. I will not argue that I should object if he disagreed with anything, but then I have found that our domestic representatives have spoken to him in a completely third way and have maligned Slovenia in terms of violating fundamental freedoms, rights and I do not know what else. That's the problem. The man comes from an environment from which he is dealing with this problem, he knows the European Union's legislation, he knows the European Union's single asylum process, he will be implemented by the Member States, he will be implemented, some just as much as the minimum, Italy will probably be one of them, and he is even more developed than we are, we have given even more than we are required to. But this does not have to be recorded and people coming from abroad must be told that it is a violation of fundamental freedoms and rights adopted within the framework of the European Union, and this is a single asylum process, which is a lower standard than we are introducing. That's the problem. And now, once again, say that you do not malign Slovenia abroad. I don't think you can say that. You wrote it yourself, I didn't make it up, I'm just reading what you wrote, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Don't you? My mistake, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss Article 51? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We open paragraph 57 of the bill and the amendment of the Zares Group. Ambassador Maja Shirtz, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u122	Article 57 speaks of the procedure for re-examination. This is said to be the case if the applicant or the applicant has been rejected, another option may be used, the request, of course, in a way that provides additional or appropriate and reasonable evidence. In this case, the law states that if it does so, if it submits an application for reintroduction, the person, as the applicant, shall, on the basis of a decision of the police, be established with the authority responsible for removal from the country. We believe that it is not necessary to use such accommodation, that such accommodation is inappropriate, that there is no need to limit movement at that time and that such a solution can be circumvented when requested again, and therefore we propose deleting paragraph 4. As regards the previous findings made, however, where there is no juggling by disregarding the international instruments which bind the Republic of Slovenia, as stated by all five civil society organisations, and summarizing their comments at 17 points, these key comments, summarized in 17 points and many of the solutions promised on these 30 pages, have only been partially taken into account in two places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u123	Thank you very much. May I close the debate in connection with Article 57? I understand your silence as yes. We are moving on to a debate in conjunction with Article 58 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? DAR LVTIJAR BEBLER, HERE YOU GO.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. We propose that paragraph 58 be deleted because the provision of Article 58 does not ensure equal treatment for persons entering the country via airports and ports. It is a violation of the constitutional right to equality in proceedings. The proposed provision seeks to ensure as effective procedures as possible, but efficiency must never prevail over the protection of the fundamental right of access to asylum and the special treatment of vulnerable categories of persons, especially unaccompanied children. The implementation of those procedures may lead to a violation of the basic principle of refugee law, which is the principle of non-refoulement of persons in need of protection, and we propose that this Article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate in conjunction with Article 58 and moving on to Article 59, this time the amendment is by the Zares Group of Members. You're giving up the debate. Thank you. We are moving on to Article 78 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. DAR LVTIJAR BEBLER, HERE YOU GO.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We propose to introduce an allowance for daily expenses, i.e. allowance. We believe that this is absolutely necessary and that you yourself have heard how many of these asylum seekers there are. Very little, so it can't be a problem. Before the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Asylum Law in 2006, we already had a provision when asylum seekers had the right to a allowance, as required by binding Directive 2003/9/EC from the Republic of Slovenia, which was repealed by the amendment of the Asylum Act. NGOs have also warned us that there have already been weaknesses in the fact that applicants do not have the right to a allowance, so we propose that this right now be reintroduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u127	Thank you very much. And I would like to take the floor of my fellow Member, Happy Friends. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear President! Look, this amendment, to put it mildly, is concerned with the introduction of the allowance. Isn't it a little embarrassing that we don't know how to take care of those who are on the verge of poverty living in Slovenia, and these are said to be the Prime Minister at the last meeting, 10%, that is 200,000 people. In social transfers there are 42% of Slovenians, and we will put in the pockets of foreigners who have been protected, I understand that they have come here under some urgent pressure, to protect themselves from their lives, even a pocket. Please! Let's be sober! We are obliged to take care of our citizens and citizens. 200,000 are hungry. They're on the verge of survival. The government doesn't hear their problems. They were sold even, and this government sold them even good businesses, where they could work and earn for a normal piece of bread. In Primorska, we sold the General Sailing that we saved with this money, and you put $70 million into this company, and you sold it to strangers. A foreigner borrowed money, 50 million euros for three days, and three days later he took the purchase out of the company, and his ownership remained. We can be ashamed if we are so generous toward strangers and are neglectful toward our own people. I hope people are watching us. We saved it for a referendum yesterday. I suggested that this money be distributed to the poor. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said he knew who brought the money back to Slovenia, tied up yachts, bought expensive houses, and enriched. I don't know, a body by selling arms and buying off such companies and selling them off. Why don't you take action!? We should all work together to step on the fingers of those who are rich at the expense of increasing poverty, and we give asylum-seekers more allowance here. Please! Is it not normal for all European countries to look at the pockets of rich people and ask them, often, where do you get this wealth? And we will use the budget to spend money on asylum seekers from that budget, which we cannot find for those of us who do not have a piece of bread. I'm certainly not gonna press the "yes" button against this amendment. Forgive me, this is shameful, shameful for every Member of the people who is a Member of the people in this House, that he cannot defend the interests of his own people before the interests of others. It leads to extreme nationalism, you know. You're making us hate speech, and I don't know what else. This leads to you having a reckoning here tomorrow, like the Germans had on the Kurds and so on. This leads to this, in this situation, you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I am missing one point in this amendment, which the applicant probably did not intend to define. That's the height of that pocket. How much would you give asylum in this country? I am sure that this country is not rich enough to spread money across the board and to allow some people who know the law, believe me, before they come to our country, they know the law better than at least 99% of the people who sit in this house, on the government, or at least 60% of the lawyers in our country. And we'd give them their allowance. We give them clothes, we give them food, we give them a roof over their heads. All three basic categories for a decent life of an individual. But we don't know all this or we don't want to give it to people in our country. And I don't know, I probably think that this was some kind of a lack of corn or you didn't know how much these people could get per day. You know, kids don't get their allowance because their parents can't give it to them. This country, once again, has no money for pocket money. I think two years ago, when I even heard the proposal or even gave them tickets to social events, there are various, including football matches that took place in the Republic of Slovenia. And let's give them this, why not, if we're giving them everything. Our Slovenians, who work fair and honest, pay taxes, and they don't. But let's give them a chance to pick up so that foreigners can have their allowance, according to your beliefs. I certainly won't support this amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u131	Anyone else want to discuss the SD amendment that adds the word "pocket"? Yes, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u132	Good afternoon. Otherwise, I thought that Members of the ruling coalition would come forward and support what they had wrongly deleted in 2006 in the Asylum Act. This is a provision resulting, of course, from the European Directive, first and foremost, from whether we want to have a just society. It is nine people who have obtained asylum for these or those reasons in Slovenia. About height. The amount shall be determined in accordance with the third paragraph of this Article, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall make every effort to be as reflected in the policy of the individual coalition. The fundamental question here is very simple: will we respect the directives that we committed ourselves to when we enter the EU, or will we humbly, as did the Asylum Act in 2006, delete this allowance? The vote of the ruling coalition, which intends to assume the presidency in 30, 40 days' time, will show respect for the European directives. The MEPs of Social Democracy, of course, propose this amendment because we believe that this belongs to basic civilisation standards. These people can steal, and that's probably not what we want them to do. And remember, if they get an opportunity for education, if they get an opportunity to work and employment, then it is clear that the allowance is not necessary. If this is not the case, the allowance is also provided in every just society. This is how it is defined in the European directives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u133	I invite Member Rudolph Petan to take the floor or to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again, I do not know how many times already, I would say that this law is based on a uniform EU asylum procedure. These are now European directives. To say that something is contrary to European directives is, I don't know how to define not to offend anyone, or to be deceived, or to be knowingly deceived, or to be lying, or anything. The law is based on a uniform EU asylum procedure. It's a basic fact. Second of all, why don't I back this amendment, why I think it's okay that the pockets aren't married. Because these people get what they've been told, food, clothing plus textbooks to teach kids, those who then stay in this center. You probably know that, too. And that's right. But as for the education of our children, I will say thank God that this government, and with a new proposal, will be free of charge for the entire nine-year schooling, as far as textbooks are concerned. Because students can get, if they want, textbooks at school. But they can buy them, but they'll get them. Only now will it be equal for all children the same, even for our own. Next thing you know. I agree with those who say that money is as much as it is and that it can't be scattered. If you give anyone everything, unfortunately, I also have to tell someone who doesn't pay any taxes, but whoever pays taxes has to pay a lot of money, which the asylum-seekers we're talking about won't be possible. The fact is, three years ago, 54,000 people received assistance through social transfers. Thank God it's only 40,000 today, but it's still too much. $40,000 is too much. That's official information. This number has decreased by one third because there are more jobs and fewer people who have no opportunity to take care of their social security and through social transfers get it. Even 54,000, as before, were very acceptable in Europe. It has to be admitted. But 40,000, of course, is an even more favorable number, and if it's even smaller, it'll be even more beneficial because it's 40,000 too. And it's impossible to say that now, as you say, someone doesn't indicate how you've already described that you won't take me for a language, that I'm saying something in mind, "if you don't express an immediate intention to make an application." That's what we should give to your pockets. It just doesn't work. Secondly, what I would like to say is that very many people who come to our border for such or other reasons know our legislation better than our citizens, because they came here to find a hole and our citizens live here. That's just the fact. And let me go back to Italy. Can you imagine how many pockets we should be - they don't get the hang of it! And they won't give them their pocket money, but they'll give them their ticket back from where they came from. That's what I think is 68 or 78 euros per person per plane seat to go fast, not with a ship or something. On the plane and back where they came from. I do not agree with such behaviour, of course, but such are the facts in the European Union, and we have a higher standard, so do not malign Slovenia that the proposal is contrary to the Charter of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms adopted within the European Union and the implementation of the provisions of the procedural directive in domestic law would constitute a breach of their obligations under refugee law and human rights law. This is what you write, you probably sent to some addresses abroad and now, don't say you don't muck Slovenia. That's another piece of evidence. I'm sure if we wrote it yesterday or today, we probably wouldn't write it anymore, because now we'd like to hide it, because it turns out that it's still going on with some of these things. It's written here. You can't say here that you didn't write that and that's not true. This has also been made clear to the High Commissioner for Human Rights. He is, of course, committed to being a high standard in this area. Normally, it is also right that our Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch organizations, and I don't know what else I know, take on a high standard. Normal. But do not malign Slovenia to write that the law is contrary to human rights. That's a little much. If it says here: we want to, we stand for a higher threshold for these rights - okay. Not that our legislation is and will be adopted if it is, contrary to human rights law. This is the ecclatanal malignment of Slovenia. That's what this is all about. No one tells you to stand up for a high standard, but such lies spread across Slovenia, and this is a little "too much", sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u135	Thank you very much. However, Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I had just heard that one of my respected colleagues was talking about some basic civilisation standards; that what we are talking about now falls within these basic standards. I agree that we can discuss these pockets, but I repeat that these people, who have not been guilty of such a situation, get a roof, get a temporary home, basic care, food, clothing, the possibility of educating children, attending various events and so on, which is related to some material costs. But I don't care that much. They get a lot more. They get some security in our country so they don't live in fear, just like they probably lived where they came from. To feel like people getting some attention, some respect. And that, I think, belongs to these basic civilizational standards. However, if someone claims that because we do not pay our allowance, we are in breach of these basic civilisation standards, which is really problematic, then please kindly, choose to petition, collect a sufficient number of signatures, propose a referendum, inform the wider world how, because of such inhumane, poor behaviour of Slovenia, we are in breach of basic civilisation standards!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. Just a brief comment on the answers to one of my questions. In particular, it was said that the Minister was responsible for determining the height of this allowance. This could be black and white. In short, it means "my care go to the other" and let him decide who doesn't have the money, not even to wear his own cops. But on the other hand, since when do you trust this minister? What if the minister gets a good-for-Christmas attack, he says, a pocket of 250 euros for every asylum-maker, and you jump back on your feet in this hall. There's no money. I agree only with the statement of one of my predecessors who said equality for all. Then let's give the allowance to those -- if you don't believe me, I got three text messages at the time: "I would have pocket money too," said everyone. Let us first give to our own, to those for whom we are responsible, to whom we have to take care, to give allowance to those who cannot afford it, and then worry about whether an asylum will be given - and perhaps harshly - it will be possible to go to the store for another pack of cigarettes or be satisfied with food, drink, roof over the head and clothing it receives, plus the security it receives in this country. Let us first make this possible for our parents, and then let us talk about them. As far as the reference to the European Directive is concerned, you know, I believe you are quite aware of the impact this country has on a European directive, on its origin - this impact is the same as zero. And if there ever is a European directive that says, "Slovenia, all the money or all the weapons or whatever you put on your head in this country," we will do so for the sake of respect, in your opinion. We have been against the European Union in the Slovenian National Party and on such directives as provide for such things for countries that cannot afford it - even if I do not respect them, my heart or my head hurts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u139	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Without diminishing or magnifying the problem that emerged from this discussion, I would say that the matter is very simple. Most of us, and we're the legislator, so we can say we're not giving these nine people their allowance and the end of the debate. You don't have to explain much either. But I'd like to say something else. This debate has now shown that, of course, if we get the chance, we will give this pot a lot of other things about this decision. And I'm gonna go straight for these last 15 minutes about free school and so on. My friend Petan, I've been listening to this for 35 years, and I'm still paying a lot of bills, and I think I'm still gonna be paying for the grandkids of this school. So leave these free school flyers for another time. When we talk about these 9 asylum seekers and these pockets, we connect how we are unfair to our own citizens and citizens, and we do not afford or take care of them. I just want to give you a little bit because we Members are sitting here. Let's be correct. When we talk about these things, let us be honest with ourselves. Food, transportation to work, the separate life you receive from Members is four times more than the social assistance you get, I don't know how many here. Let's discuss this relationship, not connect these nine pockets that we're talking about today with the whole problem that's going on here, and we always take ourselves out of it. And in the end. Moreover, it is obvious that you now have the MPs and members of the coalition built-in chip on this deplorable opposition MPs and MPs. And you will repeat this at every session ten times, a hundred times. I came here now, and in half an hour, six words were spoken about mud. Colleagues and coalition colleagues! Here's what I'm going to say. Apparently, in the next year until the next elections, if any criticism is given to the Government's proposal or to government laws and so forth by the opposition, there will be an immediate argument that we are maligning the country in a wider area, in our wider country in the EU. If you slander the opposition at home, discredit it and speak ill of it, according to Comrade Petan, as has been said today, it is a normal situation, it is a beautiful picture of Slovenia in this wider country called the EU. I warn you, however, that you are also profaning the citizens and citizens of this Slovenia abroad. In the last six months, the largest party and other positions in this Parliament in the public, the Slovenian public and the general public have issued numerous assessments, judgments and judgements on human rights violations, on eavesdropping, on monitoring of people etc., etc. Without evidence, without any argument, you are also maligning citizens and citizens abroad - and that is right; you are calling even press conferences, making public statements, demanding extraordinary meetings and so on. This isn't mud, this isn't mud abroad, this is normal! But if any of us say anything and use it to violate human rights, it is profanity abroad. Please! I suggest that this chip that you've received since Monday, you correct a little bit, and maybe you can install another program.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Before I give a replica to my respectable colleague Petan, allow me. I have not restricted the debate so far, and I do not intend to restrict it further. However, I would just like to remind you that we are talking about the amendment to Article 78, the authorship of which is borne by the SD Group of Members and the beneficiaries of the Law on International Protection are also granting state aid in the form of pocket money. Please, if the next panellists stick to and talk about their ideas. Comrade Petan, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. I'll just be speaking in the indents. When you say so, you tell us that we are also muddling Slovenia. I'm sorry, what did I say? Because I read to you what was written in the explanation of the amendment that it was a "infringement of human rights and fundamental freedoms" and so on. This was told to our guest, who you probably invited, Mr Lloyd Dakin, whom I have also spoken to myself and I have submitted my version on behalf of the Group of Members. You keep talking about the violation and you write it down, it's written down, I didn't make anything up, I read what you wrote. But when you said that we are mucking because we are talking about listening, let me just give you one case: a judgment with a decision, whatever you call it - a final judgment on the case of listening to a journalist, Mr Ranc, given by Mr Kos. The guy's in charge of accusing anyone of doing anything, and he's giving a wiretap to Rance's reporter, and that's legal now. And you accuse us of making things up! We're not making anything up, I'm just saying this case, I'm not gonna do it, because it's not yet authorized, and it's already legal. And you know a lot about listening to wiretaps, more than we've ever been on this committee, and whoever's been listening to lame tapes, you've already known this before where it is, and what it's not, so please let's let the wiretaps go and take that word back, so that we're mucking as far as the wiretaps are concerned. You have a court-martial that I do not speak of Mr Lukšič at all what he orders! That's right. And let us be careful, but I have only read to you what you have written and what I have convinced you to speak to representatives from abroad about the Slovenian country, and it is not true that this law, which you are talking about, will be based on a single European asylum procedure with a European Union directive - no matter which body. This is more than this single asylum procedure requires. That means we can't even break it. It's super standard. And you tell us it's a violation, and you write it down. That's what I was talking about, that's all. Nothing about insinuations. What you wrote down, that's what I'm talking about. And I also told you about Ranz, which is already legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u145	Comrade Squeakle, stick to the rules, please. Allow me to speak to the Member who is appointed. Thank you very much for following the instructions. My friend Lucky Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Make sure there's no mistake, because we're always branded to have a hate speech. Personally, I am for a safe haven and a warm home, for all those who need it and have come to Slovenia to preserve their lives. It is certainly a normal act for the State of the Republic of Slovenia to offer them shelter. However, I am against the fact that rights are shared on the wire and on me, I must say - a colleague has also received some messages, moved this message. I'll read it because I know they're watching us, "Friend, please ask what the conditions are for getting a allowance if you're not an asylum, but you're a Slovenian on the verge of survival." I can tell you who sent this, Fras Dusan of Divaca. This is a Slovenian who probably doesn't have a decent life. And the reflections are what they are. Look. Yesterday we listened to Mr Saiovic, who spoke about education, that Slovenian schools, whose windows and doors are stuck with nails because there is no means of replacement. Rural schools. We give asylum students free textbooks - even fine. Who gives our Slovenian socially endangered families something for free?! Even rich people - this is the case from Séžana, I will not say a person because it would be distasteful - make a fool out of this country because they live in separate marriages and report their social threats in such a way that "if my wife lives like a single woman" and they drive home with Ferraris and Porsches and in fact the state pays the children lunch. The poor, but not the poor! They don't usually put themselves in line for you. And we'd give the Azilantes a lot of legal rights. Do you know how much paper has to be written down for one social assistance? As a rule, we don't even see the poor! Our Slovenian poor people don't even see our social services. They see, of course, their programmes, their salaries, which are such as those at employment institutions. Our poor, socially threatened in the countryside and in the cities, depend on aid if it is granted to them, well-intentioned and benevolent, otherwise no one sees them. And that's why I'm going to vote against this amendment. I don't think it's right for you to be making a fool, literally a fool, of citizens and citizens. There are 200 thousand of them, that is the Prime Minister's word - and I know it's a lie - that they don't have for bread. He said this at the last meeting we had last month: 10%, he admitted, is one that is below the minimum of social survival. Mrs Cotman said once again, 42 of them enjoy social transfers. 42% not to be mistaken, not people. So be rational and ask the proposer to withdraw this amendment, because you're literally making a fool of those who don't have to survive. It would be wise for the hungry to once become heard and to be satisfied to give the hungry the right to become satisfied. This is also stated in Article 2 of the Constitution that we are a social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the reports. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. The Social Democrats Party wishes to grant the right to allowance to applicants for international protection in addition to the rights already provided for in Article 78. Now, of course, it would be very demagogic to discuss this, as my forerunner has already done now, but I don't think it's necessary. It is only necessary to say that this right would be taken into account if the law did not provide certain basics. It is that these people have adequate accommodation and care to provide these people with daily 3 meals and additional food for small children, as well as a school meal for compulsory children, so that these people have additional transport to school, to the doctor, to cultural events and wherever it is necessary for these people to have the right to work and employment on which they earn and so on. So, if any of this is not the case or if all of this is not the case, then the right to a allowance is justified and this is also the European directive, which lays down very precise conditions, when the right to a allowance, not cumulatively when everything else is guaranteed. In this case, however, what you are asking is completely unnecessary because everything is already assured before. If something wasn't provided, then of course - yes. And I hope that Mr Squeakle will read what the European Union requires by means of his directive and that he will not talk about the fact that when this is not ensured, in addition to everything else, there is a breach of the European legal order, which is a lot of stupidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I see that we now have a new model of calling Members, but I also accept that. In my debate, I would first of all ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about its opinion on this amendment. This is because we have clearly different interpretations of a just society, a social state, provisions of the Constitution. At the same time, of course, I would suggest that the Government also explain to us when it deletes this provision, why there has not been an escalation of other social contributions from January 2006 to November 2007. If we are now talking about justice and the social state, then of course it is right to talk about it, but not to settle here for nine asylum seekers. The asylum child, which is a school, has the right, in my opinion, to get the allowance to go to the cinema if you want it to develop like any other child. That's all this is about. I would therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give us a position on the alignment of the amendment proposal with the European directives. This was the rule of law when we entered the European Union. We have changed this legal order in the meantime, now we want to fix it. I think we deserve both the Slovenian public and the Members' replies from the executive. And secondly, as I said, this answer, which has been in the air for months now, why not coordinate social transfers for more than 22 months.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I am informing you that before your call, the representative of the Government has applied to the floor and will have a word at the end of the debate. Mr Dusan Kumer has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I would just say, I agree with these views that have now been expressed by Comrade Kovacic in this regard. The difference between the position of colleague Kovacic and my position is that it is an added value that is in this pocket. If you find that to be the case, then that's the way it is, and that's enough. We say this is a discussion, but not to open up in this debate, with the amendment of the entire range of economists, social problems and policies here at home in Slovenia, and we attach it to this amendment. That was my point. And second. Comrade Petan! I'm not afraid of anyone, and no threat comes to me alive. That is why I will say again: I did not talk about the Ranc case and I did not build this position on the Ranc case, I was building on the positions that we hear from your parliamentary group and your party every week for six months about the violation of human rights by citizens of Slovenia in the past, without any substantial, judicial evidence. And you do this at press conferences and you do this at boards, committees, etc. .................................................................................. And I am just comparing and saying, you are also violating this rule of yours, which you have given to yourself and you are profaning, not the country, citizens and citizens of Slovenia abroad, when you repeat it from day to day.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u153	Look, I'm forced to do it again. We are talking about the amendment of the SD Group of Members to the beneficiaries. Comrade Kumer! We are talking about the amendment of the SD Group of Members, which we speak exclusively of third-country nationals or stateless persons to the beneficiaries of this law under Article 3. We're talking about strangers. Their amendment assumes that they would be given pocket money. Please, if you'll hold on to this. We continue on the basis of the reports. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, of what we are actually talking about and who we are talking about. We are talking about those persons who, due to a legitimate fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or certain political belief, are outside the country of which he is a citizen or who is without citizenship. We're talking about these people. See if the Geneva Convention, which was adopted in 1951 and which came into force in 1954, applies essentially the same position as with regard to public aid for these persons as with nationals of those States Parties which have adopted this Convention. It is said that this principle was established in 1954. Then, for God's sake, let's focus on who we're talking about. We are talking about these affected people, who, if they returned to their country, would probably be subjected to very rigorous measures and would not return home because of fear or lack of citizenship, but it is even worse. We're talking about these people. And if the proposer himself says that this law is in line with the directives, even with what I quoted earlier, then I really do not see why we should not take this directive into account in this law. I just don't understand the narrowness I'm witnessing here today. If both Slovenia and Yugoslavia were then party to this Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees, if we were then able to agree to these criteria, then I really do not understand why we could not be prepared to comply with directives of the European Community or the EU today. I think it's a very, very narrow-hearted view, and in that sense, I am very disappointed. I would add that those who talk about some who are going to defile this country abroad would only say that those who express such narrow-hearted views here, perhaps those who are even more effective at profaning this country than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u155	To the word I invite the apostle Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal myself because, like my colleague Dimitrij Kovacic, I believe that this right to pocket money has already been consumed in others who are taxably listed. Plus, I think it comes from the same sources or the same lawyers probably wrote that which, under another law or in the past, demanded great compensation for the so-called deleted. Even for those who opposed Slovenia's independence. When I look at which party signed this amendment, I wonder why they didn't accept the challenge last week to go to the government, not to say they don't have a mandate to represent people. Last week they were the most feared party, and the party whose MPs were shaking and grinding their teeth, what if the government were to fall, we would have to take some responsibility ourselves. If we were prepared to challenge it, if we didn't say that you didn't have a mandate to represent people, voters, we could take responsibility and we could set up huge pockets here, and I don't know what to do, invite people to come, even without political persecutors or anything, to Slovenia, and pay them. Last week was the right week for you to show broadheartedness and courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you, too. I am sorry, fellow Jeraev, the time of the delegation has passed. [[...]] Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u158	Thank you very much. There has been evidence of narrowness of heart and, to say the least, respect the directive. What kind of directive do we have to write down to ensure that what the media write, "every eighth Slovenian lives in misery," today, today's press, fresh press, the color has not yet dried up. I'd just like to ask you a few questions. When we put forward a proposal in the Slovenian National Party, we are supposed to have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, both to the President of the National Assembly and to the President of the Government, because poverty is such as it is, they have not written an answer. The Vice-President of the National Assembly raised a question at the College, he was re-elected - the President of the National Assembly to the College was re-elected as not necessary. You don't even want to talk about it like it's not there. 200,000 Slovenians are hungry, and you're talking about narrow-heartedness. I did not say that these people have no right to a warm home and protection, but we will not give them money because we do not have it for our poor Slovenian families. And please remove this amendment because it is irrelevant!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that we are now talking about a matter that is actually rich. Even if it were not for 9 but for 90 asylum seekers who have asylum status or who ask for asylum, this would be for Slovenia compared to all the money that this country should use to improve the living conditions of citizens living below the poverty threshold, not the petty cash, but the powder or drop in the Adriatic Sea. And because of this, I believe that today's debate on one side is under every criticism and every border of good taste, I will not say civil standards. To talk about the fact that Social Democrats are profaning Slovenia if we write that the bill is contrary to fundamental civilisation standards or that it is contrary to a directive issued by the Commission of the European Union is nonsense. Firstly, because this law has not yet been adopted, and secondly, such a claim is nonsense, and secondly because the identification of some individuals in that country is another complete nonsense with the whole country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposed this law, is not Slovenia. And I can tell you that despite the messages we have heard about them today, the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenians still have a great sense of solidarity within them, and understands that the people whom their own country has rejected for such or other reasons have cast out, caused them to feel threatened in their own country, that we are willing to help them - even with the allowance. For we all know what this allowance means. This is a few small amounts that also help a person out of an asylum home normally and sometimes relax, not with a pack of cigarettes, but with what else. And that's why I want to say it. Speaking of asylum seekers, we need to know that the European Union, the Commission of the European Union, in this explanation and communication or communication to the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, has informed itself that it is aware that, in fact, by its directive and its asylum programme, as it would have been said, it is in fact in breach of the Convention. And that she apologizes through this interpretation of the directive she has drawn up. We had standards that were at the level of the Geneva Convention, we were, I will say, not a country that is rich, but a country that feels solidarity with the unfortunates who seek refuge with us or elsewhere in the European Union. And when we compare the cases that are taking place in Italy, we need to know that they are people who are not refugees, but are citizens of the European Union, together with us. While today we are talking about a law that deals with third-country nationals; it is said that non-members of the European Union are citizens of countries where terrible things are happening. And that's why we have to think about it that way. If you think it's too much to give an asylum to applicants for refugee status - vote against it. The fact is that even a European directive, which is not in full agreement with the United Nations core document, provides for, among other things, a pocket. It is said that it is not true that we are not bound to comply with European directives, because when the European Union adopts a directive, it is as if the law were passed here within our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u162	First of all, those who say that we are not ready to take responsibility. I don't remember giving that option at all. You're the one who's been frantically supportive of the trust of Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u163	My friend Milan Squeakle, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u164	I'm done. I'm finishing up the president. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u165	We're on the proposal for a law on international protection. I used to be naive when I thought there'd be a third warning about what we were talking about. I'll change my mind. If you talk about the government's confidentiality again, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u166	Alinee number [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u167	On Monday, I'll take your word for it! [[...]] Keep going!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u168	Mr Jerovšek, Mr President, I did not start this question. Aline 11 to 78 is a completely normal line. It stems from the directives, comes from the international legal order and has already been introduced. If you want, in line number five - Financial assistance in case of accommodation at a private address - is even included. Because, of course, someone who hosts an asylum on a private address will also pay a movie to the child of this asylum. But it is a child of an asylum, a very specific case, which is in an asylum home, where he has everything except cash to buy a ticket for a movie or a box of cigarettes. It's about this civility standard.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u169	We continue the debate. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to get involved in the debate, but now that I've listened to each other, I think that the debate on this amendment is really pointless, but for two simple reasons; one by the motioners. If we read all the indents that are already listed in this Article 78 and I listed just a few: financial assistance in the event of private address accommodation, health care, education, work and employment rights, humanitarian aid - this asylum Minoren would be this amount, as some of you have determined. [[.....]] Last year, there were nine asylum seekers, and those who dealt with these social assistance, we know that this allowance is for a caregiver in a pensioner's home, I think between 10 and 12 euros. That's the old 2,400, 2,800 tolars. Secondly, why does this debate seem pointless to me also by some colleagues when it involves everything that this law does not mention at all, that I am not saying that the same amendment is speaking. But I don't understand the debate, and I think my friend Squeak, twice when he said that this allowance should go to the kids. Yeah, where's that written down? This allowance would likely go to all, beneficiaries, asylum seekers, or those who have this status or who are trying to regulate their status under this law. And third, and I would therefore like to conclude, but I expect indeed the reply of the representative of the Government, in view of the confirmation of the colleagues who proposed this amendment, to add to this article's eleventh or twelveth indents of Article 78, to tell us explicitly whether the content of Article 78, when we are talking about the rights of asylum seekers, is, therefore, those mentioned - whether the provisions of the European directives are taken into account or not. And or any organisation - as a colleague of Darja said, the United Nations or the European Union - assumes that asylum seekers are also entitled to the allowance and everything listed here. If it says here that those unable to work are entitled to the allowance, it would be the first to support such an amendment. Even if it were written for minors, it is said, schooling, I would also support such an amendment to make such a allowance. However, those who have the right to work and to work are said to be like all other citizens of this country, but I do not think they would be justified if, as I say, some of the documents we have committed ourselves to respecting them do not provide for that. For this reason, Presidents, before we proceed, I propose that the representative of the Government respond to us by taking account of the European directives or possibly the United Nations regarding the right to the allowance of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your proposal. [[The ad in the hall.]] Comrade Squeakle, I've heard you for the first time. Before I give my word to the Secretary of State, he's got a replica of his colleague Squeakl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u172	Mr. Bajc, thank you very much. I would just like to replicate that if you look at the third paragraph of this article, it is said that "the Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the ministers responsible for health, work, family and social affairs, education and sport, sets out more detailed conditions and ways...". There he can write what he wants - allowance for schooling children, allowance for and so on. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Zinraj Zvonko, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The government's position on this amendment is that. The Government advocates the fundamental principle that international protection procedures must be legal, effective and, above all, swift. This is especially so that the applicant is not too long in the uncertainty of where he will be able to create his future. During this time, it is important that the accommodation provided is adequate, that he is provided with psychosocial assistance, that he can recover from any traumatic events in his own, home country. Applicants have three daily meals and additional meals for smaller children, as well as lunch for school-bound children, provided for applicants to go to school, to doctors, and also to cultural events. With regard to the right referred to in Article 13 of the Council of Europe Directive, which has been tabled several times today, the precise provision in Article 13 which material conditions for admission must be provided to applicants and in what way they must be implemented, which we assess Slovenia. We're talking about a number. In fact, we had about 400 asylum seekers this year. It's about people who don't have refugee status yet. Social assistance goes to people who already have refugee status and are completely equal with Slovenian citizens. We believe that this matter, according to our assessment, is guaranteed, this is a guaranteed social security for each other, which is said for both categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u175	Thank you so much for explaining yourself. And we continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u176	Thanks again for saying that. I would really go back to the amendment, an amendment such as this, that these pockets would be given to these nine asylum seekers from the state budget. I agree, dear colleague Pecanov, that Slovenia is the most solidarity country and I have nothing against the solidarity of those who have to, but if he will give it to the asylum-seekers, let him do it. Because of me also in the SD Group, open a special transaction account, 10 and some of you are and you will easily feed or enable cinema to these nine asylum seekers; but not to force people who do not already have one in this country, they must put in the budget through taxes to give for someone else if they don't already have one; they must not do that! Solidarity, if you're going to do it - I mean, it's just brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u177	Thank you very much. And for once the last time reported for discussion is Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I just forgot to say something. When we compare this country's spending on allowance - the Secretary of State has not told us or maintains that the European Directive also mentions the obligation of asylum seekers or asylum seekers to pay, inter alia, their allowance or not - I would like to point out only one thing. When we talk about how Slovenians who are below the poverty line do not get from the state of aid, and we here in the Social Democrats are trying to "get out", as we would call it, asylum seekers, foreigners, the arrival of state money, I would like to point out that colleague Majda Potrate has already suggested to the Ministry of Labour that it should end or shorten the period when the social benefits are revalued, and that our citizens who need help, which may also raise some of them above the poverty line, in order to better align their aid with price increases. That's what the government repulsed and said was unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Is there another parliamentary group or a Member who has at any time addressed a mission to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs? Now is a unique opportunity for advertising, given that we have direct television coverage. Comrade Joseph Bajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Not for that. If I have correctly understood the Secretary of State and I think I am, the asylum seekers who have received this status are equal to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Ergo, this means that they are also subject to allowance rules. And if our citizens are justified, so are you. And I think that I have also correctly identified and heard the number that 400 asylum seekers, with these eleven or ten indents in Article 78, consume what they foresee or prescribe European rules or European directives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Can we conclude the debate in conjunction with the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors? Not yet! My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All I'd say is that it's inappropriate for you to comment that there's a place where someone can advertise. Here very serious matters are being discussed and I would ask you to be Vice-President of this kind of comment, which has some content in the undertone that I would not define, and perhaps also your position to refrain from doing so. It is not possible to bring this discussion to the level of promotion and advertising, but it is a very sensitive topic; not only because of those we are not currently dealing with, but also because of all the matters we have discussed two days ago and are related to the reputation of Slovenia in the world. If a subject is reduced to being treated as a toothpaste, which usually comes to mind when talking about advertising, then it is something that is not worth politics. In Parliament, it would be good to abstain from advertising and to make good policies in favour of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and those who find themselves in difficult circumstances because of them, I will say, without home on the road and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I believe your comment is well-intentioned. However, I believe that the sensitivity of the topic for the Group of Liberal Democracy also proves that your Members are present - three minutes ago, there was not one. I also conclude the debate with this. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 1st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL AMENDMENTS OF THE APPLICATION LAW OF THE CITIZENITY IN THE context of the reduced procedure. We have an estimated 45 minutes of debate for this item. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Zinraj Zvonko, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, once again for your time. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The adoption of the proposed amendments and the completion of the law on the registration of residence requires in particular the need to supplement existing legal solutions, the arrangements for the registration and registration of individuals in the Republic of Slovenia, and the proposal also brings some important innovations in the area of the application itself. This proposal removes the local competence to register or terminate permanent and temporary residence while maintaining the existing arrangements for the local authority to conduct the two findings, namely for the process of verifying the validity of the application and the procedure for determining the actual permanent residence, since this can be done by the administrative unit more quickly and economically. The law gives the authority to enter the title of the permanent residence of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia abroad to our diplomatic-consular representations, which is to comply with the Law on the Registration of Electoral Law. The bill introduces the possibility of so-called electronic registration and cancellation of permanent or temporary residence by means of secure electronic signature, which also means removing administrative obstacles in this area. Due to the growing problems, notably by the service of official letters, which confronts the most courts, the so-called address for service is included in the Register of Permanent Populations. In so doing, upon application of a permanent or temporary residence, an individual shall choose one of these as a service address. Furthermore, the bill brings news of the application of a temporary residence of a person who is in prison, in detention or in a foster home. Thus, it provides that the institution must declare a person's temporary residence within three days of the date of the occurrence of that penalty or measure and that he shall sign it off before being dismissed. The bill also provides an important solution for individuals who have applied for residence or who wish to apply for residence on an address which has not yet been registered in the register of spatial units. It is said that the house number was either cancelled or that it is an object of black construction. On application or amendment, the title shall be checked in the register of spatial units maintained by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. The application under the current regime is therefore not possible on the site with the cancellation of the house number and in the case of black construction. A large number of individuals reported residence at such addresses prior to the entry into force of the 2001 Act. They are now unable to obtain travel documents, are not covered by health insurance, and they must be entered manually in electoral directories at each election or referendum. Amendments to criminal provisions in the draft law also constitute compliance with the law at the time of the introduction of the euro, increasing the fines prescribed in the range. The bill also eliminates the shortcomings of the current law, which did not sanction individual infringements or omissions. Finally, the bill also provides for an extension of the period for the application of the newborn's permanent residence from the current 8 days after birth to 8 days after the identification of the personal name, of course in accordance with the law governing the personal name. I suggest that the National Assembly adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Hvauca, to present the position of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. At its 38th meeting, on 8.11.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the registration of residence submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure. In the introduction, a representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, presented the basic objectives and solutions of the law. I wouldn't talk about details because you just heard them. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then presented the opinion of this service and, in particular, pointed out the provisions of Articles 19 and 28 of the draft law. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In doing so, he also adopted two of his amendments at the initiative of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Amendments to the bill were tabled: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, on the 19th and 28th articles of the bill adopted by the Committee. As already mentioned, he also accepted two of his amendments, namely Articles 2 and 18. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on all the articles together and adopted them. Subject to the amendments adopted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the registration of residence, an integral part of that report of the Committee, has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In our DeSUS Group, we assess that the bill or amendments to the law are good. Then we'll give him our support. However, we would also like to draw attention to some of the dangers that are also taking place in practice on this issue. I will not give you all the details of the good ones that the bill has presented before us. These good suggestions were presented. However, I will focus my attention on a few groups, a problem that may be interesting to think about or that may need attention because they carry some dangers within them. First, it must be found that this law concerns very different aspects. It is a matter of different entities and everyone is likely to have a different attitude to the underlying issue in this respect. It is about what this bill means for the country, what it means for local communities, for example, and what it means for individuals who are more or less keenly interested in appropriate regulation. In any event, it is for individuals to have or have no rights under this Title. Therefore, they must be keenly interested, as also stated in the introduction, and as the country or public interest is keenly interested in the comprehensive and complete register of these data follows. These rights are also the rights of different fields. These can be rights in the field of politics, citizens and these rights are very important. These can be social rights, and there can be other rights, such as housing rights. And as usual, they always have their second sex, their second salary, which we often call obligations. Let me illustrate what I mean by the case of the local community. The local community is legally obliged to provide housing for people who cannot afford it themselves. By law, she is also responsible for the payment of subsidies. And if we take these two categories away, we see that those local communities that are seriously addressing these problems are investing very important funds, structurally in the proportion of their budget, if they want to exercise these rights as well. It is similar to a considerable amount of rights which are linked to non-different forms of institutional protection. Whether it is the elderly, whether it is a disabled person or a institution in which the congregation must participate on the basis of a permanent residence. Or, for example, when it comes to unemployed persons, compulsory insurance for unemployed persons who do not have another insurance address. The whole range of other ratings is also from municipal budgets which are linked to permanent residence. The more the individual municipality is socially sensitive, the more it has these responsibilities. This is evident very quickly in humans, and many start to abuse it. Thus, it is irrelevant where a person has a registered permanent residence, how he has declared it, because he has immediately obtained by law the appropriate rights, which are later measured in large financial means, and these rights can sometimes, if unjustifiablely obtained, those who have realistic and legitimate expectations under this title. We know cases that I will not speak with names, not with locals, not with personal ones, when someone on everything beautiful has become a beneficiary of the apartment and cannot not give it to him, and the place where he gets the apartment has never seen it, but has a permanent residence. It is therefore very important to maintain this right, which is very often ineffectively used to verify the application of permanent residence, to check the possibility of verifying the actual stay and that such rights can also be denied on the basis of rapidly acquired rights. There are other rights to the whole race. And the second set that I would like to mention in this is rights that are not written down, but were in the process of thinking, namely the rights of foreigners and Roma, who are well held together as well, so to speak, that control will be easier, that costs will be lower and that problems in this regard will be smaller. In this way, we do not agree to these requirements. Otherwise, as I say, the marriage is good and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! The proposed amendment to the law is one of those additions to the existing legislation enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, which is included in the work programme of the Government and the coalition, with a fundamental aim of eliminating unnecessary and pointless bureaucratic barriers that can be brought about by laws and other regulations. In addition to the necessary substantive additions, the proposed amendment simplifies the procedures or operations of the public administration and the judicial authorities, with a view to informing the databases, linking them and opening them to users within and outside the public administration. The dissemination of eGovernment services and the removal of administrative barriers are changes that we always support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. In the practice of applying the existing law, which deals comprehensively with all issues relating to the application of residence, the manner and conditions of the application and the cancellation of permanent and temporary residence, the need for changes and additions to individual provisions has been demonstrated, since the registration of an individual in the address where he actually resides is both a public and a private interest. Amendments are also proposed to this effect: Local jurisdiction to register and cancel permanent and temporary residence or change the address of the residence; the possibility of electronic registration and cancellation of permanent and temporary residence and the change in the address of the residence and the departure and return from and to the Republic of Slovenia; the procedure for determining the actual temporary residence of a foreigner who does not have a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia; the obligation for persons residing in the Republic of Slovenia to report to the administrator of the register of permanent residence the title to which the writings of the courts and administrative authorities are handed down to them; the institution for the cessation of the sentence or home of education must, for the purpose of the service of a temporary residence of an individual in the three days following the sentence has to register the number; the validity of the title shall be checked in the register of the public office of the foreign title of the title of the Minister of the pre-retitle of the State of the foreign title of the Office of the State of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the State of the Office of the Office of the State of the Office of the Office of the State of the Office of the Office of the State of the State of the Office of the State of the Office of the State of the State of the Office of the Office of the Office of the State of the State of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the State of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Minister of the Office of the Minister of the Minister of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Minister of the Office of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Minister of the Office of the Minister of the Minister of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Office of the Minister of the Office of the Office of the Minister of Other, less important, changes in criminal provisions and changes in editorial nature and compliance with other laws. Since all the changes and additions are in order to address shortcomings and administrative obstacles, simplify procedures and increase eGovernment services, we will also support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u191	Thank you very much. My colleague Miran Potrč will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law is one of those who seemingly regulate the necessary issues themselves. I do not hope to say that there is a huge difference between the apparent and the actual difference in this particular case, but it is correct to say that all those directly involved in the issue of residence registration are not engaged, but when we are not able to properly assess whether anything proposed will really bring the desired effects or cause any problem. We therefore support the law in principle, but the question arises whether you have been dealt with in an appropriate manner with two questions. The issue of residence registration in the event that someone does not have to say useful allowed and house number is a serious issue that needs to be addressed in a life-style way. These are questions that are being asked in Slovenia, unfortunately for years and decades. I hope that the Ministry, which has prepared this part of the proposal, has also given good thought to this in connection with the survey board record. And the second question is the issue related to the registration of residence and the registration of electoral law, especially abroad. In view of the problems that we have encountered in the last elections for the President of the Republic, which indicate that it is imperative to coordinate these records with each other, despite the fact that it is probably not unacceptable that certain powers should be given to diplomatic and consular representatives, but should be exercised not as formally as they have been carried out so far as we have estimated that there may have been such a major gap between who actually had complete data and complete records of his permanent residence and could also be invited and sent back to where the data was returned because they were not regulated and accurate. I say again, I can hope and believe, even though we have not received fully satisfactory answers to these questions on the parent's working body, that the applicant has considered them, and we are likely to meet with them in the face of certain changes and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Zupan will present the position of the Ambassador Group of Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Residence Registration Act regulates the registration obligation of residence for both nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners for the purpose of a comprehensive and accurate record of the actual state of the population in the Republic of Slovenia. Certain material rights of an individual shall also be bound to the application of residence. It is therefore in the interest of the inhabitants to have this status regulated. The single application obligation of an individual shall apply to the application of a permanent residence, while in the case of a temporary residence application, this notification obligation is in most cases on the part of the landlord. During these six years since the law was applied, certain deficiencies of regulation have been demonstrated. The new law introduces two new institutes and provides certain solutions to facilitate the implementation of the law. The bill pursues the objective of removing administrative obstacles, which we have achieved in a very good number of laws already adopted over the last three years, and this amendment also removes local jurisdiction for the application or cancellation of permanent and temporary residence. It also introduces the possibility of electronic registration or cancellation of residence, an electronic check-in from the country and return, and an electronic change in the address of the dwelling. The law has been set up so that an individual is registered at the address where he actually resides, so certain new instruments of residence registration that have not been possible so far are envisaged. It will be possible to register a residence and change the address of an apartment to an address that has not yet been registered in the spatial unit register. In doing so, it should be noted that registration of the house number does not constitute legalisation of possible black construction. The application of a temporary residence of an individual will have to be made compulsory by prison, detention or foster home administrations, within three days of the occurrence of a prison sentence or other measure, and will have to be discharged. In this case, the temporary address will also become the address for service, which will have an impact on the significantly faster and more efficient delivery of administrative and judicial letters to individuals on the suspension of their sentences. The address for the service will also have to be provided by other individuals upon registration or cancellation of a permanent or temporary residence. The address for service may be changed at any time, even if it does not register or sign off. A statement before the competent authority is sufficient. The law also brings important news, namely that the building owners will have to have the opportunity to look into the register, who has all the registered residence at the address of the building. It happened that without the knowledge of the owner of the building, individuals registered their permanent or temporary residence at this address. Then the mail and official writing came to the address, and the owner had no mechanisms to prevent or at least ask who was registered at his address. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that changes are useful, so we will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u195	Thank you very much. My colleague, Josip Bajc, will present to us the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A little unscheduled television commercial. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the law on registration of residence are in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group with a hand in hand with the current changes and trends brought by the new technology. As we know, most of the things that have led individuals to take time away from home are now able to arrange from home by so-called e-mail or route. Many times this way saves many a long journey and time, and we welcome this in the parliamentary group. The draft law removes the local competence to apply and terminate a permanent or temporary residence or change of dwelling. E-application or cancellation is intended to significantly reduce administrative obstacles that we certainly have too many in life. It is good and appropriate that simple small things can also be arranged in such a simple way, directly from home. The basic purpose of the law is to register the individual at the address at which he actually resides. Thus, the population record will actually move against accuracy and not just approximates, as in some cases today and some of which you have mentioned more specifically in your presentations. We have all heard many times about the fact that there were ten people at one address who had not actually been there, even worse, that there was no house or house number there. Or they were reported on addresses that were actually black construction. These amendments, at least in the opinion of the parliamentary group, will significantly reduce the abuse of such species, and let us hope that they will be completely impossible. The news is also the address for service, which is newly introduced in the Register of Permanent Populations. At the presentation of the bill, the bill stated that the Court's communications indicated that the proportion of the unsuccessfully served judicial writings in fair cases ranged between 5% and 10%, and in some courts up to 30%. When we think of this information in practice, the picture is horrifying, in some cases, in which a third of the beneficiaries are not able to deliver their mail at all. This certainly increases judicial backlogs, which are a particular problem for us, and I think several times also mentioned. We therefore strongly support the obligation of people residing in our country to communicate their address to the administrators of the register of permanent residents in the Republic of Slovenia, where they will be able to serve the writing of courts and administrative bodies. The bill provides for many other good solutions, such as the obligation of the institution to stay in detention, home education and similar institutions to apply for the temporary residence of an individual within three days of the occurrence of the sentence or to regulate the legal obligation both for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for foreigners who reside with us. In our view, such a significant case from the half-time could certainly not have happened. The solutions described here seem good and advanced because in our view they provide transparency in the population register, which is certainly lacking at the moment. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the situation in this area should the proposal for a law come into force, improve and save people a wide range of unnecessary trips to the seat of either the administrative unit or the exposure of the administrative unit. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable present. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on residence registration looks like a law that does not have some terrible weight for the lives of people in our country, and in this way I think it has also been addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy. But our belief is that it is a law that is certainly one of the laws that is most often broken in this country. It's one of those laws that people at least respect, either because the application, the cancellation of a permanent residence is related to other costs or certain costs, or because it seems to them or most people say, "I will when I do." Although we know that the deadline is clearly set, how long must it take to do so? Only permanent residence, as someone said before me, gives individuals certain rights and, of course, obligations. The biggest violation of this law seems to me to be taking place primarily, I will say, in Dolenjska and also in other parts of the Republic of Slovenia, where they live in the house, two people reported - four people living in the house, 45 people living in the house, and up to 130 people living in Dolenjska. These are members of the gypsies, who benefit more or less from this in our country, the easing and uncontrolledness of this law. Therefore, in particular, the call by the Slovenian National Party to the Ministry of the Interior to try even more precisely and even more closely, as it has done so so far, to exercise control over the application and cancellation of the permanent residence of individuals. As I have already said, permanent residence gives a person certain rights and, above all, obligations. And we know it's not the same if two people have been reported in one housing unit, or 130 alive, or if two actually live. The costs are shared slightly differently in such a case, as well as police intervention in such a case can be different. In principle, things, as the law stipulates, such as electronic reporting and checking out, are nothing bad, and I think they will only make life easier for those who may never have time to go to the administrative unit and do so within the time limit prescribed by the law. Therefore, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u199	Thank you. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the 1st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. And by doing so, I interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to six. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on amendments to the penal code, summary procedure. We have an estimated 55 minutes of debate for this item. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Ambassador Majdo Širc. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of this Committee, Mr Srečko Hvauc, to present to us the report of the Committee and the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u200	Thank you again very much for your word. At its 38th meeting, on 8.11.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure submitted by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca. In its introduction, the representative of the proposer expressed her disagreement with the decision of the Vice-President of the Committee not to invite representatives from a long list of proposals to the meeting. As Vice-President, I first explained that the proposed legislation had been tabled after a reduced procedure and, in explanation, stated that it was less difficult to amend the law, so that they had already limited or narrowed the possibility of discussion in some way. If the matter had been brought in on a regular basis, this debate could have been richer, more extensive, and 10 Members could have called for a general debate, and a public debate would have remained open. Otherwise, the meetings of the Committee shall be public, any of the interested parties may participate in these meetings and shall also give a written opinion, which has not happened. At the hearing, we also took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which had a number of concerns about this bill. Let me just say some. They state that it is the basis for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Article 63 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which limits any promotion of hatred, violence and discrimination, is therefore unclear why the applicant has decided to incriminate only publicly committed such offences. Secondly, the enforcement form of a criminal offence is not appropriate in respect of respect for the principle of legality in criminal proceedings [[Article 28 of the Constitution]] perhaps the direct application of the international substantive standard of the Rome Statute would constitute a violation of the principle of legality. In the light of the foregoing, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service considered that it was necessary to proceed with a comprehensive process or to bring the Penal Code into line with the provisions of the Rome Statute, not in the manner used in the draft law. The government also cited a number of concerns. I'm going to put only a few here, too. The representative of the Government said that the proposed amendment to Article 300 of the Penal Code was not appropriate, since it conceptually amends Article 300 of the Penal Code and that the applicable Penal Code in Article 141 already criminalizes the offence. In the opinion of the Government, the applicants also make inappropriate references to the provisions of the international treaty, as criminal law theory requires their special transformation into the internal administration. It is also possible that a more extensive reform of the criminal code and their alignment with the Rome Statute are planned and that the Ministry of Justice has already referred the initiative of the proposed law to amend this 300th article to examine the criminal law issues it raises to the relevant working group. In the debate that developed following these presentations, some felt that it would be necessary to include the general public in the consideration of the proposal of this law, while others felt that the professional public would be involved in the preparation of a more extensive amendment to the penal code, which is already in preparation, in relation to this issue. Members also considered that it was a nonconsistency proposal, with non-constant solutions and that it was an even more looser dictate of Article 300 of the Penal Code. Finally, most members agreed with the position of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government that it was necessary to approach a comprehensive process or to harmonise the criminal code with the provisions of international treaties and that hate speech should be regulated in a criminal code, but not in such a way. No amendments were tabled to the draft law, and the proposal of the proposed amendments to the Committee's amendment to Article 1 was not adopted. On the basis of the opinions expressed on the Committee itself, by 7 votes in favour and 1 against, it was decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly proposes that, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the draft law amending the Penal Code, the reduced procedure, be adopted for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u201	Thank you very much. For the speaker, I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirco, as the first to be signed under the amendments to the Penal Code for the introduction or definition of the position of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u202	Good-bye, distinguished minister! Allow me to repeat to you in these five minutes why we think that our proposal would require a different decision, the appropriateness is to recognize it as appropriate and to continue to deal with it with the amendment which has listened to all the comments both to the Legislative and Legal Services and to the Governments on our proposal that we have adopted. Let me start by saying that language is not an innocent thing. If he's impatient, he can cause violence. Freedom of speech is not unlimited. The Constitution guarantees freedom of expression, but it also limits that freedom. It limits the point when it comes to hateful and discriminatory expression and when it cries out for violence. Hate speech is not every bold, offensive, or different expression of opinions, as we have heard here many times before, saying that hate speech is a different, unacceptable thought. The hate speech is the one who calls for an unacceptable act to be taken. If someone says, let's say that homosexuals are redundant, inappropriate, promiscuous, for example, or whatever, this is a position that I don't agree with, maybe someone else does, but it's a different thinking, a different opinion. But if we add to this statement and add an action note to this opinion, let's put it this way, if we say that homosexuals are obsolete and inappropriate and promiscuous, so we need to eliminate them or cut off their limbs, then we are talking about an enemy speech. In short, all other opinions, different views, views, this is not an hate speech, and the 300th Article of the Penal Code, which we are amending, will not criminalise these opinions, and freedom of speech in this regard will not be limited. So the hate speech is to call for violent acts, to express views that are discriminatory, xenophobic, homophobic and similar in nature and are directed at different minorities, against people who are supposed to be less valuable because of this, that is against ethnic, national, religious, cultural, sexual and other people. The substance of the amendment to this 300th Article of the Code of Penalties is the thought that it is obsolete, in modern international law, too acute, a solution that does not protect all minorities and groups, as noted by a special group at the Faculty of Law, which will also present these days the views on changes in criminal law in a broader sense, not just this article, but also a group of criminal law experts at the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law. This report is public and also has a sub-chapter of hate speech that supports the options for such solutions that we are proposing to you. While Article 300 of the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia prohibits the inciting of intolerance on the basis of racial, religious, national, or ethnic origin, which is not dealt with, it leaves out all the other circumstances that we include. That is to say, those circumstances that may be subject to discrimination, intolerance, incitement to hatred and violence, such as on the basis of handicap, sexual orientation, political or other beliefs, material status, birth, education, social position, language and so on. The European Commission to Combat Racism and Intolerance within the Council of Europe is in its regular reports on combating racism and xenophobia in the Member States [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] has repeatedly pointed out that there are no legal convictions in Slovenia in this area, including because of the lack of legislation. [[...]] This was also repeatedly emphasized by the former Ombudsman. But that doesn't mean there's no action. Let me say that we have consumed all the comments of the Government, including the fact that it is not merely a sanctioning of that act, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which is linked to a public statement, but which can also happen elsewhere. [[...]] We also consumed comments from the Government and comments from the Legal and Legislative Service concerning the Rome Statute, but if in principle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u203	Will it be hateful if I take your word for it, given that you've gone too far?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. The Penal Code certainly needs substantial changes, as the current Code no longer meets modern European standards in the field of criminal law. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we expect that the Government will soon introduce a new criminal code or a thorough amendment to the Code, which will introduce new democratic, established criminal solutions around the world. The Rome Statute and other international legal acts impose on the countries of the European Union the harmonisation of their legislation with their provisions, and it is right that Slovenia also replaces its own, today rather relicensive provisions of criminal law, which are still largely based today on the socialist criminal law doctrine. The Group of Members certainly advocates such a comprehensive approach to the necessary amendment of criminal law. Today's proposed amendment to the Penal Code, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by the Group of Members, with first-signed Member Majdo Shirca, represents a different approach from the one described above. It is only a partial amendment to the current law, which amends only one article. However, it is not only that this proposed amendment is not comprehensive but that the amendment to Article 30 of the Code is also inadequate. The legal provision, in particular in the case of a criminal provision, must be as clear, precise and unambiguous as possible. And it is these, for the legal order of important elements, that the proposed marriage novelles do not meet. It's a rather generalized dictatorship that lacks precision, but it's a richness of laxity. Such a legal formulation, which is enshrined in this proposal, makes it possible to apply it in a fairly arbitrary manner. The definition can be extremely stretching and can relate to many things, but it can also be quite the opposite that because of its laxness, it is almost impossible to apply to anything. Depends on who's using or implementing the law. In particular, I am referring here to state prosecutors, who would carry out the law in very different ways and according to their own way. To put it domestically, they could do what they would do in a case that would suit them. Here, too, we are very close to the former verbal delicacy of the former socialist regime, when the then party authority, on the basis of the notorious 133rd article, criminalized its political opponents who said something that the party did not like. Now a group of opposition MEPs with the novel under consideration introduces something similar that we thought would never happen again, because you can't expect such a thing from democratic politicians. I find the intention of the motioners very perverse, when pedophiles are also cited among the groups that the new code would specifically protect against so-called hate speech. While the world's strictness against paedophilia is being strengthened, this law wide-rangingly opens the door to greater tolerance for pedophiles, which we strongly reject in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. By referring to the so-called hate speech, which promotes hatred, violence or discrimination based on a violation of the principle of equality before the law, by race, religion or any other personal circumstance, the amended article opens up too much room for criminal prosecution. When we talk about the violation of the principle of equality by sex or race, it is perfectly clear and understandable. However, if we add to this what the proponents want us to include in this a violation of the principle of equality under any other personal circumstances, then all those who publicly promote discrimination against pedophiles, abusers, arsonists or other groups of people with certain personal circumstances that are unacceptable in our civilisation can be found on the other side of the law. Such groups of people with such unacceptable personal circumstances must still be discriminated against in our civilisation, for in this way we ensure the protection and protection of all others who are at risk. This does not mean, however, that every individual does not have all human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed, that legal protection is guaranteed in all proceedings against him and that he is innocent as long as the guilt is not legally proven. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot support such an incomplete and surfacely prepared legal proposal, in particular because the application or implementation of the proposed text of the law could in many cases replace or equate the role of the perpetrator and the victim of the crime referred to in the provision of the article that is being amended by this proposal in the criminal code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u207	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that there is indeed a need to recast the 300th Article of the Penal Code, which criminalises the promotion of hatred, violence and discrimination, and which should further define individual forms and signs of the offence of hostile speech. Finally, after the adoption of the last major novel of our Penal Code, it has been quite a while, while several other international instruments have been adopted within the United Nations or the Council of Europe, in particular resolutions and declarations, which address hate speech in more detail and more modern terms and recommend to Member States how internal criminal legislation deals with the incrimination of such crimes. These documents also contain more modern definitions of freedom of speech and expression, the right to personal dignity, the right to privacy, personal rights and the like, which must be taken into account in criminalising hate speech. Special progress has also been made in defining freedom, as well as in the ethics of different types of media, through which hate speech is particularly common. There is also a relevant case-law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which must be taken into account and usefully in the design of the incriminating of the hate speech. All that I have listed, however, says that this is a very complex issue that still needs to be properly placed in the complex system or in the comprehensive context of criminal law. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are not in favour of partial amendments to the Penal Code, but in particular on this particular case, we lack convincing professional assessments and positions of criminal law experts. The dilemmas already raised by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly are, in fact, sufficient for our scepticism that the proposed novel is the most appropriate to express its affection. It also bothers us that the proposaler has decided to shorten the procedure because it is less difficult to change. When it comes to changes in criminal law, even though there is only one article of the criminal code, the question always arises whether it is really less difficult to change, or whether it is a sufficient definition of criminality, so as not to raise the question of respect for the constitutional principle of legality in criminal proceedings. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand and endorse the example itself, which motivates the proposer in his assessment that the offence of the enemy speech must be further worked out and coordinated with the modern view of this very important matter. We believe, however, that there is already another more comprehensive proposal for a criminal code in the professional and public debate to direct this proposal today to that debate that is already under way. Just as the Minister of Justice has already assured us here, we hope, of course, that the applicant will take sufficient time for a comprehensive in-depth professional and public debate, where, of course, we are also critical of the way that draft was produced. There is no way in which we can support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats, although we do not oppose it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Ambassador Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u211	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! In the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal law, we have been placed in great difficulty. On the one hand, we have the desire, the will to have hate speech, the hate language, the hate writing, yet somehow more precisely, to limit all that makes it possible to spread emotions in Slovenian society, and on the other hand to preserve legality, clarity, conviction. The committee itself has shown that things are very rainbowy, that it is a very large spectrum of understanding of what hate speech is. One thought too much, if you blink someone's finger, the other was already considered to be some right to freedom of speech. Of course, when a hate speech is defined, everything that is part of the entire linguistic semantic spectrum of what can stimulate negative actions due to negative speech must be covered. However, let it be as mild as to allow something to be thought out and, of course, as a result, to give into consideration a bad act, to suggest something, to mention the possibility of being recommended to invite, to instill a request or even to order. Thus, speech can actually cause serious acts within this whole field, which I have marked at some points. Of course, we know this from our own history, from foreign history, and unfortunately from the present and probably from the future. So it seems to me that it would be a good idea to think about this in the National Assembly. Of course, patient society must allow the expression of a variety of thoughts, ideas, opinions, thoughts and thoughts, even though they seem unreasonable, stupid, and grave. If statements are offensive, the criminal code has already dealt with this. If it is an act against a good name and honor, it is already being dealt with. However, when it comes to promoting hatred, violence, discrimination based on violations of the principle of equality, this is referred to in Article 300. But here we have two again. Article 300 does not change in the proposal for a criminal code and, on the other hand, the professional public agrees that it should be amended, clarified and, of course, made possible, in some way, that minorities or groups of people who are not bound by nationality, race, religion are found within it. There's something else that's easy. They used to say all long-haired people had to be killed, that was a hate speech. Of course, this circumstance is neither religion nor race, nor nationality. Or now in smokers when smokers stigmatized themselves. I can show you at least ten letters expressing hate speech and telling me all the punishments I can experience in this world and in that world. In this law we have a problem in the Liberal Democracy why the proposal limited hate speech only to public expression. This was then arranged with the amendment. More importantly, we have a problem with the fundamental principle of criminal law, which is the principle of legality, the general clause and the reference to the provisions of the Rome Statute. And, of course, why introduce a qualified form when the perpetrator is an official. In the Liberal Democracy we will vote in our conscience, in our conviction, of course, even after how much someone knows about it. But certainly, whatever's going to happen [[...]] [[End warning sign]] With the proposal of this law, the matter will remain open and will need to be resolved. [[...]] Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is at the crossroads of different nations and, despite good integration, is still a community of many differences. We say that diversity enriches, allows for excesses and the progress of society. However, the inability to perceive often results in an intolerance to other races, cultures, languages, sexual affiliations, confessions, or just an attitude that is different from ours. It's an impatient expression through a lot of actions. One of these is hate speech. In the past, freedom of speech has often been limited. The change in the political system and the adoption of the new constitution has established a broader right to freedom of speech, but this does not mean that everyone can speak on average, which he thinks is limited to the rights of others. Where to draw the line between freedom of speech and the protection of the rights of an individual is a question to which there is no simple answer. The debate on this subject took place very often in the National Assembly. However, we have warned about this issue in the New Slovenia Group of Members, mainly at the annual or every time the reports of the Ombudsman are examined. The bill, tabled by three Members with the first signed by Mr Majdo Shirca, wants to amend the Penal Code and incriminate hate speech and extend the range of crimes against humanity and war crimes. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the Government's view that the scope of the 300th Article of the Penal Code is too narrow for new emerging forms of crime and that a recast is needed. Nevertheless, we do not think that the amendment is appropriate. The proposed amendments overlap with already defined criminal offences in the Penal Code and refer to certain articles of the Rome Statute, which is totally inappropriate from a criminal point of view. Criminal law theory requires that the provisions of international treaties be subject to a special transformation directly into law. It does not appear to refer directly to the Rome Statute in this case. Despite a long civilisation culture, Slovenian society is increasingly exposed to a culture of intolerance, and we cannot exactly boast. The protection of human rights and tolerance for others is not enough. Respect is needed, not only to suffer and endure others, but also to respect them as something different and precious. In doing so, we must pay particular attention to traditionally marginalized social groups. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the Government will consistently include initiatives for improvement in the preparation of the new Penal Code, including today's proposal for legislation, in the context of a broader public debate. For reasons of integrity, we will not adopt the above-mentioned reasons for the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I would like to point out that Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not be in favour of amending the Penal Code. The motioner considers that hate speech must also be defined as a criminal offence in the Slovenian legal order. Therefore, in their view, the 300th Article of the Penal Code should be supplemented by criminalising incitement to hatred. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group also strongly criticize hate speech and we want Slovenia to be known as a tolerant country that does not allow incitement to hatred and intolerance on the basis of racial, religious, ethnic, other beliefs, education and other special circumstances. Every such act is condemned, and we feel that no one living in this country has the right to insult another if we want everyone to live together in peace and tolerance. As I have already said, in our view, the amendment to Article 300 of the Penal Code is not appropriate, since this area is already regulated in some way in Article 141, which regulates infringements of equality, and in some other articles. Thus, this issue is already covered indirectly in some articles. This issue is already covered directly in some articles, and the solution of the proposalr is not good and thoughtful. The problem of hate speech is sufficiently well regulated in the current regulation and can be interpreted from the above-mentioned articles. We are also afraid that if this bill comes into force, it will be very difficult to determine the limits of the hate speech. In practice, this could lead to an abuse of this Article. We believe that the change in this segment alone, or at just one point that we are considering today, is more populist in nature than the serious thinking of a concrete change in the criminal code. Let me stress once again that this does not deny the importance of the issue of hate speech, on the contrary, not only hate speech, but any form of discreditation and abuse of personality is worthy of condemnation and must be sanctioned as provided for in legislation. However, it would be more useful to maintain the current regime, which is better than the proposed solution that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u216	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u217	Thank you very much again. Your Honor! Hate gives birth to new hatred. I got this e-mail today. Given that I come from the former Yugoslav province of Kosovo, perhaps I am talking a lot more delicately about this subject, i.e. the issue of hate speech. In 1981, a hostile speech began in Kosovo, until the unrest broke out until today, when the Kosovo knot was still untangled, there was no end. Of course, I support the law and so on. I know that once in the future, when we are no longer here, in other circumstances, this, in my opinion, avant-garde and a sufficiently thorough proposal will be addressed. And I also hope, Mr Minister, that you will not send this proposal, as you stated in your explanation, only to study your criminal code think tank, but also to those who have worked on the research task of renovating the entire criminal code and who have public access, this is, also, a positive reflection on the hate speech, as our solution governs. I should point out that this is not a so-called verbal offense and that it is very easy to translate hate speech at the time that Article 133 protected the country, our solution is to protect individuals or disadvantaged groups of individuals and individuals. Let me say that the current regime, as set out in Article 300 of the Penal Code, does not protect the paedophile, who should have been burned on the head of one such large P, who is supposed to be "played by a machine gun", the gonads, who should have been killed, not protecting the same sexes who are supposed to be the scum of society, not protecting or calling on those who call for the killing of the Roma and the need for a new Hitler, does not protect the single women, who should have been removed, nor anyone else. It does not protect this regime, so the solution and the legal convictions are so few, as Europe also reminds us. However, Minister, you also attended a meeting in Luxembourg at the beginning of this year, where you committed yourself that members must publicly encourage violence or hatred against an individual or group based on race, colour, etc., and circumstances, of course, to regulate in their legislation. That's what you promised, and sooner or later you'll have to do it. We've done this before. I am aware, we are aware, and we have also written this down, especially in the amendment, when we proposed a set of personal circumstances following the suggestion of the Legislative and Legal Service as well as the Government. And we listed those for us deprived groups of people who have actually been rewritten just under Article 141 of the Penal Code. But in the studies you will see that this listing and identification of the so-called personal circumstances of the disadvantaged groups is not a matter and a matter of matter concerning only experts in the field of criminal law, but sociologists, anthropologists and cultural researchers. For, in addition to those classic recruitments that are defined by international law, which always come into play for protection, that is to say, according to faith, national, ethical membership, there are always those special circumstances in groups and communities that are specific to a particular environment. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Spanish Penal Code refers to or penalizes those groups that are deprived of race, ideology, religion, religion, family status, nationality and ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, disease, disability, etc. While in Norway they have even more, besides religion, race, skin color, etc., ethical and national affiliations, they talk about homosexual orientation or even lifestyle, not to mention Sweden, where all forms of sexual orientation and other taxive groups of people are listed. It is time for the Slovenians to modernise in this sense too, because circumstances are forcing us to do so. Sooner or later, Minister, you or someone else [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Of course, we do not want to be the only one who supports this novel. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u219	Your Honors are here! I think it was Walter when he said, "When I listen to the speaker and I disagree with him, it makes me so angry or angry that I like to beat him up. On the other hand, I would fight for his right to these words to death." Take those words, try to understand them, especially you, the proponents. We will not support this novelty in the National Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present, or Mr Yelen. Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Members with first-signed Mrs Majdo Shirca have submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, the purpose of which is a comprehensive ban on hate speech, since they believe that the current criminal code of this area does not regulate it in its entirety. Members of the DeSUS firmly believe that the challenge of intolerance and the call for hostility is extremely problematic in terms of human rights. According to our assessment, hate speech is one of the most powerful means of discrimination also because it is difficult to define, on the one hand, and on the other we are already investigating and punishing. The hate speech is regulated in the Slovenian Constitution and in criminal law. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia considers, in its 63rd Article, any encouragement to national, growth, religious or other inequalities and the spread of national, growth, religious or other hatred and intolerance to be contrary to the Constitution. On the basis of this Article of the Constitution, it is also based on Article 300 of the Penal Code, which lays down criminal liability for those who cause or spread national, racial or religious hatred, discord or intolerance or spread the idea of the multiplicity of one race from another. On the other hand, the Constitution also guarantees freedom of speech, expression, public speaking and, in our belief, freedom of speech as a liberal value to protect or protect it. It is, of course, necessary to assess, given specific cases, when the constitutional right to freedom of speech goes beyond its scope and falls into the category of hate speech. It is extremely worrying that this threshold, when it comes to freedom of speech and when these words mean humiliation, dehumanization, subordination, depriving of dignity, is increasing. The criminal offence under Article 300 of the Penal Code is included in the Penal Code in the chapter of offences against public order and peace. The latter provides the basis for the fact that the object of criminal justice is primarily public order and peace and, in the second instance, part of the population, such as national, racial or religious groups. In terms of content, meaning and consequences, this is a compromised delict which contains an anti-discrimination factual state. This crime is thus a safe circle of the population in its dignity or nationality, racial or religious equality. However, the proposers shall provide a solution to protect an individual or group under this Article in the light of any other personal circumstances. In doing so, I should just like to point out that each individual is protected, both on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and on the basis of current criminal law, in the event of a violation of his human rights and fundamental freedoms. Members of the DeSUS support the intention to regulate hate speech in criminal law in the light of today's situation. However, we cannot agree that the amendment of one article should only fully address this issue, since the 300th Article of the Penal Code is being dealt with in several other articles, and therefore it is certainly necessary to take a comprehensive approach to resolving this issue. For this reason, the DeSUS Group cannot support the proposed law. In spite of the above, it shows that the text of the amendments to the Penal Code, which is being prepared, should consider the reasons for the resolution of this prohibition of discrimination, which would correspond to today's situation in terms of the protection of public order and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u222	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today in the framework of the vote at 19.20 or half hours following the end of the 1st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 1st item of the agenda - questions of Members and Members. This agenda item was discussed by the assembly on Monday, 19 November, and suspended by the agenda item 1.a. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration and Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent by Members, who failed to raise the question on Monday. Mr Srečko Friends will first ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! War crimes don't get old, we know that, and it's all the more incomprehensible that all the guilt in the procedural proceedings of Bishop Rozman has somehow experienced an exemption, even though he worked with both the Italian occupier and the German, he was twice present in signing an undertaking to the invader at the stadium and other things could be listed. I'd like to point out that the process was washed. That's not the point of my question. This is only because Slovenia is an equal member of the EU because the EU is based on the fact that it respects both our NOB tradition and history and is based on antifascism. In the context of this fact, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: Why has there not been a spirit or hearing, or a positive or negative response, or an affirmative response, or a statement of where our action, which we have brought on the basis of Article 146 of the Criminal Procedure Act on a group of Italian officers who committed cruel crimes in Slovenia during World War II, ended? This action, of course, is based on facts and has already been filed in London immediately after the end of the war at the so-called United Nations World Crime Commission, this is said to have been in a court of war at the time, but for well-known historical reasons this action has been dropped. At that time, they felt that it was better not to judge Italy. However, since crimes are alive, proveable, and in fact have consequences, and must also receive a judicial epilogue, it would be right to find an answer, victims and families, as well as satisfaction. Dear Minister, I ask you: Why can't you find the answer to the many questions that have been asked here in this very professional literature and carefully combed in the sense that we have captured still living people who have never been brought to justice? I ask you: Why, as Justice Minister, do you not have the power to [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. Your question concerns a criminal complaint filed by your party against 165 Italian military officers in the beginning of the previous year during World War II. Let me tell you that the Supreme State Prosecutor has informed us that, after receiving the complaint, the High Prosecutor has requested not only the Archives of Slovenia, but also the Slovenian Interpol's identification data for the officers in question. In this way, data have been obtained for 76 people so far, many of whom have been found to have died. For others, there has been no record of their stay for decades. Regarding the remaining persons, they have already been hurrying for data several times, but they have not yet been able to obtain them from Slovenian Interpol. The State Prosecutor is therefore actively working on this case, but it has been difficult to obtain this information since then, due to the time elapsed. Surely such crimes relating to crimes against humanity must be thoroughly investigated, so I will specifically request the State Prosecutor's Office to provide an accurate report on this event. Please also ask you and all others if you have any additional information that might help to illuminate the matter, in particular information, as you say, about other living persons, if you have any more specific information - where these persons are, where they are, how to get to them. All of this data will be handled carefully and will be dealt with in a reliable manner by the Prosecutor's Office. The prosecution is working on this and will certainly work, the matter is not abandoned, but you must understand, because even in many other notorious crimes against humanity and international law that occurred in Slovenian territory during World War II and, in particular, after World War II, no court proceedings have been concluded so far. Obviously, this information is not easy to get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u226	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, I am partly satisfied with this answer. Thank you for that answer. However, research task, analysis, study, expertise is not done solely by our conduct. These are information provided by experts in the Republic of Slovenia, historians, and also thanks to all our professional colleagues who have worked with them for two years, provided such quality evidence. But I would like to say something else, or I would like to ask you the following. Have you contacted the Republic of Italy as well? For we know that Italy is also obliged to provide information, and the facts which show that the guilt is evident are written in the indictments. I would like to point out that you used to say that people aren't alive. I say that many of these people are alive, they changed their names, their names, their dwellings, and, as such, they still enjoy, unfortunately, a great reputation in Italy. Will we also receive this answer in writing? That's what I'd like to ask you. And of course, those who deal with it would also like to be on the list so that we can contact them; that is, the prosecutor responsible for it. I have a problem with the fact that we haven't received any answers since this material was released. Thank you very much for the additional answers to my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u229	Thank you, too, for complementing this issue. In fact, there was only one question, for the names of the persons involved in the prosecution, we will provide you with a written answer to this question in accordance with the regulations governing this area. I repeat, however, what I have already said before, is that we are prepared both in the Ministry of Justice and National Reconciliation within the Ministry of Justice and National Reconciliation to review your data, to continue to process it, inter alia, and also to forward all this information further to the Prosecutor's Office. However, I said that Interpol was also involved, which means that the matter is not limited to our country alone. However, it must be understood that it is very difficult in Slovenia to obtain data on crimes against humanity that occurred after World War II, and I believe that this is so much more difficult in countries outside our jurisdiction. I'm sure it's a very difficult matter. However, I support the demand and the need for this to be thoroughly investigated.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer. He's not here. This is said to be Mr Cwickl's turn to ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. Citizens and citizens, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister of Finance! Please explain to the Slovenian public why you did not respond in time to the warnings of the domestic and European economic and political public about rising inflation. This one's been incredibly tall in recent months. The October annual increase in food prices and non-alcoholic beverages is 13.3% and is no longer seasonal. These movements are not related to our analysis of the state of the country. Mr Almunia, European Commissioner, said a few days ago that he had warned you about the problem of inflation a few months ago, and you are silent about all this. That's why I'm asking you to explain your non-response. And I ask you to explain: How will you act in the remainder of your term, and whatever debt there is? I am evaluating myself, and in the Group of Social Democrats we believe that the government's actions so far are not enough to curb inflation. Even more, 11.3% of the increase in budget changes for 2008 will accelerate this inflation. Mr Janez Ivan Janša, the current President of the Government says that we are too critical of government economic policy and especially financial or budgetary policy. But the results are those that confirm our criticalness. Last week's referendum and Saturday's demonstrations say that's how people feel. Therefore, it is not as simple as you said at the beginning of the mandate that everything is fine, that nothing is wrong, that we have high economic growth, we can be indebted. The situation is different now. Due to high indebtedness, high budgetary spending puts too much pressure on inflation. Inflation is the biggest problem of the Slovenian economy. Today's financial commentator also says: "High inflation to the detriment of the consumer is the most visible and negative sign of Janša's capitulation before cartels, monopolies and oligopolies." Mr Finance Minister: Why have you not responded to the warnings of the European and domestic economic and political public? Why do you remain silent about the problem of inflation? Why don't you take action? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! It is true that what you have pointed out today is that we are witnessing more inflation this year than expected. The government has repeatedly presented reasons for greater inflation in this regard, so I will repeat them only briefly. Inflation is a result of external shocks and these shocks are mainly two types: on the side of food prices and on the side of oil prices and petroleum derivatives. Food prices contributed 40% throughout this year's inflation and oil derivatives prices accounted for about 20%. Two main causes of food prices are: in May and April, the rise in prices of seasonal products which were not on the market at the time of the introduction of the euro in January; and between June and September, there was an increase in other food prices due to the expiry of declarations signed by traders not to raise prices at the time of the introduction of the euro. During January-June, traders and producers faced price pressures due to rising global prices, but they did not translate them into final prices due to the commitments made at the time of the transition to the euro. We are well aware of the important role of inflationary expectations in creating a level of inflation and thus the consequences of misdiagnosis of these causes either because of the wrong technical analysis or for political reasons. In this regard, it is important to re-emphasize the specific nature of the current inflation caused by supply shocks and the adequacy of government policy, which maintains strict control over price regulation and maintains the anti-cyclical attitude of fiscal policy. Moreover, restrictive wage policy in the public sector as well as restrictive employment. The rule is still in force: minus one percent of public sector employment in each year. Therefore, fiscal policy does not allow for the search for causes of inflation. The fiscal policy, expressed in the budget of the wider sector of the country, preserves restrictive and countercyclical attitudes. In the last three years, the government has already reduced the expenditure of the country's wider sector by almost 3% of GDP from 46.5% in 2004 to 43.6%, which is an important achievement of fiscal policy, which has not been compared in our history since independence until now. Restrictive attitudes The government also maintains with proposals for changes in the 2008 and 2009 budget, as expenditure on the proportion of GDP and deficits in the wider sector is further reduced. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that the effectiveness of fiscal policy requires a medium-term perspective. One-off measures in quick hands only trigger new shocks. The medium-term perspective on public finances is so much more important when we are witnessing short-term shocks on the economic side. On the question of what the Government intends to do further to limit inflation, we must therefore come from the causes for it and they are not on the government's side and its fiscal policies. Therefore, we will continue to maintain a restrictive fiscal policy, a restrictive wage policy, restrictive public sector employment and a restrictive increase in administrative prices. In addition, a law has already been drawn up which will increase the powers and responsibilities of the Competition Protection Office, since only greater competition on the market can be faced with an excessive price increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u234	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Squeakl? Here you go. Mr. Secretary, if you turn off the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for releasing the microphone. With regard to what you said at the end, I also have a question for Minister Visiak, but today he is solving inflationary problems at visits abroad and the law he has drawn up may be partially solved. But, look, Mr. Minister, data -- you're saying: food price rises. The increase in food prices on average in the euro area is three times lower, i.e. 3.8 compared to the harmonised Slovenian 12.3. The growth in budgetary expenditure of the euro area countries is on average below 5%. You are proposing 11.3% of budget expenditure growth next year. This year you financed expenditure with 18.8% of excise duty growth, and in the following year you predict almost 20% of income growth at the expense of municipalities. If you increase by two-digit numbers, you increase your expenditure by two-digit numbers: How do you keep inflation below 5%? And I ask you: How will you respond to the legitimate demands of Saturday's demonstrations? From January 2006 to November 2007, almost 22 months, social transfers in pensioners have not increased, people are running short of rising food prices and non-alcoholic beverages, money per day per week. How will you respond? Please, Minister: Why do you not accept the proposals to withdraw the 2008 inflation budget? Why don't you cut 20% of the material cost you expect? And why don't you just stop the over-indebtedness? I'm asking you to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me add to the following explanation. As regards the discussions we had with the European Union officials, in particular the discussions we had with Commissioner Almunio, who is responsible for this area in the European Commission. Let me say that this meeting took place on 31 August. If there was a double in Spanish or in English, then I wouldn't say it was months ago, but when he exposed these things, it was a month and a few weeks ago. I'd like to say the following. As regards fiscal policy, it is important to reduce the share of gross domestic product in the use of public funds and is planned to continue to decline. It is important to make this clear, and this has also been clear in the presentation of the budget in this National Assembly, which we had with the President of the Government a few weeks ago. So, as far as this is concerned, fiscal policy is countercyclical, it is restrictive and the projected deficit this year will not exceed more than 0.5 to 0.6% of GDP, which is indeed very low, something we have not achieved in the history of the Slovenian economy. At the same time, it is not expected that this share would be exceeded, and what is important, in line with the standards prevailing in the European Union, is that we respect the very medium term objective. The medium-term objective which Slovenia has committed to under the Stability and Growth Pact is that we will have a minus 1% of GDP of the total deficit of all public finances. This year we will overcome this and we will not exceed it, nor in these projected budgets, which will be the subject of a debate in the coming days of this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u238	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u239	The President, this is a complex issue, perhaps more complicated than the question of whether we are united in the Presidency of the European Union. I propose that we hold a debate on this, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246. Mr. Minister of Finance has given some facts that I can counter immediately. The European Commission, the economic forecast of autumn 2007: the cyclical and structurally adjusted deficit will increase in 2008 and will be 1.4 instead of 0.8 in 2005. The decline and adjustment of inflation to the so-called soft landing scenario has been halted. We have inflation, which is a big problem. This was not least pointed out by a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank. It says something like this, let's see what's going on in Slovenia - we have an overly relaxed fiscal policy "lex fiscal policy". That is why, of course, I think it would be right to hold a public debate on this, as far as I am concerned, even at the start of the budget debate on Monday. However, the answers given by the minister to the Government are not appropriate. We ourselves estimate that it would simply be necessary not to adopt the 2008 budget and allow the Minister of Finance to act in a cost-effective manner against other ministers in 2008 and not to try to buy the 2008 elections with twice the fiscal spending. Finally, something else about the so-called famous decline in the share of public spending in GDP. When Mr Minister has growing inflation, then according to - it is called the "olivera tanzi effect" - and this, of course, we have learned in schools, the share of consumption is declining as your public finances are also becoming less and less valuable. And say that at 11%, 12% growth in nominal GDP - inflation plus growth - share falls, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That this is a great success - unfortunately it is not. [[...]] People feel 13.3% increase in food prices and non-alcoholic beverages. And you don't have the answers to that! In this regard, DeSUS also proposed a different coordination of social transfers, and something about this must also be found in the compromise between employers and workers. However, if the government is not cost-effective, if the government does not reduce the tax burden, the lowest income levels, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Then it was also difficult to compromise between employers and employees. [[...]] I believe that there are sufficient reasons to hold a public debate on this and I propose that you also support this procedural proposal in the vote today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u240	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Cwickel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Thursday 22 November, in accordance with the timing of the State Assembly meeting in the framework of the votes. Mr Ziherl, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, apologized for the business trip to Brussels. Will you still ask the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u241	Something in between. Thank you for your word, first. A Nice Greeting to Ministers [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u242	Good. Then just put it on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u243	My colleagues and my colleagues. [[...]] I would officially like to reclassify this issue in writing, for the sake of the public, and for the sake of public work I would like to present a brief summary. I ask the Minister in question: In view of the observed changes in the labour market in Slovenia due to several facts, certain profiles of highly skilled labour, highly educated people, as well as unskilled and qualified labour, particularly in construction, are lacking. So, the situation has been created by several causes, due to the consequences of globalisation, due to the intensive growth of the economy in Slovenia, due to some mistakes in directing staff in the past, when we lack technical professions, especially in engineering and electricity - this is just one phenomenon. Another phenomenon is that neighbouring countries are very attractive to certain profiles and we observe the escape of nurses, health workers to our neighbours. It came even so far that there is news that even Slovenian soldiers could serve or work in another country, where there can be up to 3 times the salary. In the case of unskilled labour, however, there was a problem with working visas, which I think were already missing in August, and there might be a need for a solution in cooperation with the ministry. In particular, a ministry simply states that this year and this year, the intensity of the work will increase and may be issued for each year, or approved, a higher quota. This is a brief summary of the question I have asked, and I want it to be translated into a written question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor to ask the Minister of the Environment a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues. I am fortunate that Mr Sponik is here and I can ask him a question. At my previous meeting, one of the previous meetings, I announced that I would raise regular questions about the third development axis or the link between the so-called fast road and its placement in space. I think we've moved on to a fateful period for a third development axis or a fast road. The quick road needs to be placed in space, and this is the most difficult in building, of course in addition to providing funding for construction later. So, we are at the most sensitive moment when the Ministry is preparing a project to put a fast road into space. Let me say that I do not envy them that this is a very difficult business and that there will be a great deal of coordination if we want to put this fast road into space at some point in time. We all want a better connection, we all want a fast road, if not a highway, until this fast road reaches our environment by hitting our apartment building or by approaching our apartment building by becoming disturbing to this facility. And it's nothing new, it's also repeated in this project, this story repeats itself. When people have seen the course of the route, they have already organized themselves, we have a civil initiative, and it is entirely human that these people are looking for a different option, of course, that they want a different solution, which would otherwise approach this road to space, and slightly distance from their living environment. And it is perfectly legitimate and legal to try to choose the means and not actually oppose the project as such, but to oppose the placement as planned. It will therefore be very important for you, Minister, to have a dialogue with the people on the ground if I can use this expression, how it will also be possible within this project to listen to people and take into account their comments, regardless of where they come from, to such an extent that the compromise is actually possible. So I ask the question: What is your plan to present this route or to place a fast road in space? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr Kontic, thank you for your question. At the outset, you said the current moment was almost fatal, and I'll say it's very important. Placing the roadway into space is one of the important moments of the long process. Next is the idea, then you put the idea into space, then you find consensus with the municipalities and the profession, you make a spatial plan, then you make a building permit, you buy the land, and you start building it, and in the meantime you have to provide the money. These are still some important stages, but this one is extremely important. You asked me how we are going to conduct this dialogue now. We will manage it patiently, professionally, and primarily by our best means on a partnership basis. Together we can find, Mr Member, that this year has been quite a success. The contracting authority of the study of variants and the environmental report, which concluded with the proposal of the most appropriate variants, was Dars, and this year we have reached this important process. And as we had foretold in advance, as soon as it was ready, we had our first very important meeting with the congregations, on October 23, a month ago, in Shentjanz, in the congregation of Dravograd. Then we said that 14 days should be given to the congregations for their first comments, but that was not the final date, and some congregations applied for several days, several weeks. And just before last Friday, so to speak, all the municipalities where this section of the road, when we are talking about the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria and the highway connection Ljubljana-Cele, have already given their views. These views we have received are made up of comments or proposals for optimisation and we have already forwarded this to the producers of the study the variants of the environmental report as well as the designers. Some comments have already been reviewed and the first additional working meetings with representatives of individual municipalities are already being held in those days. As I have information, this dialogue is constructive and we are simply very frank in discussing which proposals are meaningful, which, above all, appear to be professional in such a way that the applicants of the variant at this stage cannot take them into account. At the same time, we already have activities, we already have this second phase of coordination, which is with those departments which are responsible under the new law. Especially here agriculture, forestry and nutrition, then in our house it is nature, water management and culture. I agree with you that there is a need to understand people, and the organisation of a civil initiative does not disturb us in this context. Here is a very important partner, a congregation, and in general the congregations find some dialogue with civil initiatives in their areas, so it does not bother us in itself, but it is a little more tiring. This is a key question of what is the essence of the road connection of the third development axis. This was never meant as a transit road, but as a regional development backbone whose main objective is to preserve and develop all the development potentials of the area to which it is placed. This means that, if this is its basic purpose, then it cannot be the case that, as the most appropriate variant proposed, the ones that follow the valley routes, which are relatively close to the important urban settlements, have somehow been exposed. Urban settlements have been bypassed and are connected to their internal transport network where the relevant number of locations and connections have been such that this basic direction on regional development has also been covered. So the third development axis covers and connects all five Slovenian regions, which are also lagging behind the Slovenian average, across the highway cross to the national urban centres. You're asking me what our plan is. By the end of this month, we would like to have this conversation with the municipalities, according to their views and comments, and we will, of course, prepare more detailed technical bases for the complementary draft State Spatial Plan. But of course, although the law no longer requires us to do so, it is understandable that it is not our ambition to go to the government with a national spatial plan where the local community would strongly oppose. That is why we have very important weeks ahead of us, and I hope that they will be successfully completed in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u248	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I agree with you on the purpose of this road, this fast road, because that is also the purpose of the third development axis. As far as I am aware, after a conversation with the mayor of Velensko, Mr Happy Meho, local communities, municipalities, have forwarded all comments, including those made at the assemblies of the locals. In the municipality of Velenje, a number of these local assemblies were organised, but I think that the awkwardness was mainly that the Ministry of Environment and Space or the representative of the Ministry did not respond to the invitation and may have come before the people, and as one of the planners also told them what this road was built for or presented its purpose and route, so this was left to the municipal administrations and the mayor, who, somehow, on behalf of the proposer there. However, the fact is that the mayor is not a proposer and is not also a member of the city administration, so it would be appropriate to establish this contact. Perhaps this would be a little more effort than usual to go between people and actually present this project to them, and you are also advocating this project. The worst option would be this, and as I can see, this is not your intention to say, "Here is the road, this is how we picture it, if you don't agree with it, it won't be in due course." I am pleased that you are ready for a constructive dialogue, an agreement and that this is not the goal of the ministry you are leading; it is said that you would be looking for excuses for why this road should not be in an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I agree with you on the very proposal of the material. There may also have been some misunderstanding because it was agreed that at this first stage, when we do not yet have a completed draft State Spatial Plan before us, because the law states that 30 days have been drawn up, that comments have been made on it, and that this communication will then take place, that in addition to meeting the material manufacturers, that the local communities have apparently requested additional meetings or that they have woke up. This paradox occurred that, in essence, the representatives of the municipalities interpreted the arguments for such a and different solution. Here, I must say that the General Assembly has also responded in a very positive way to the proposed route, with some sensitive issues that have opened up in some congregations of the countries. I'll look into how it's meant to go. By the end of the month, this important communication will take place so that all the comments we have received, together with the documentation proponents, will be discussed again and again in dialogue with the representatives of the municipalities, in particular the mayors. Perhaps then it would be a moment before we go forward in the preparation of the complementary State Spatial Plan, that where the mayors will assess that there may be a more substantive gap in their area, that there will then be another conversation with people so that we do not have to go into the decomposition of the State Spatial Plan, and then we will have almost a much more complicated opposition. That's how I'm going to try to follow your proposal. It is true, however, that together we can recognize that some congregations, some areas, in a positive sense of the word, are not negative, perhaps even surprised by the very quickly chosen version or route proposed, and people need some time to accept that such a new vein as a road vein will run a little closer to their urban settlements, their home, and they need time to do so. And time, of course, needs to be done in communication, and we will certainly do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! It seems to me that it has now been so long that we can talk about the consequences either for the state budget or for the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that have occurred during the Strojan mission. The first thing I'd like to say to you is that I think that action, as carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, is one of the rare bright points of this Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, it seems to me that the Ministry of the Interior was doing the right thing when it acted in a way that is sufficiently familiar to Parliament and the general Slovenian public. However, I have decided on this question in view of the fact that both Slovenians and Slovenians who fill the budget in this country seem to know how much such a family's mission cost this Slovenian budget. I must say that I have already asked, as you know, a question from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and have received an answer that I feel, at least in my opinion, to me, to my Group of Members and to the citizens of this country underestimating. That the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allows itself to reply that this family did not become Slovenian taxpayers or the euro, but I think it is a little too much. That's the answer I got. All that has happened in this regard, perhaps even to some extent the criminal family Strojan in this country, has something left, if not the other, their stay, their accommodation. It all cost something! The police who carried out the tasks of "security" - in the nicknames - of these families - were not there for free, and I do not agree with the response I received that they were there as part of their regular work. I know quite a few people who were there and weren't there as part of their regular work. Therefore, I find the answer underestimating, and I give the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the opportunity to answer me again on this question. Real real real real real real real real real real real Let people know: how much for one such family that is needed in the right way, once again, as the Government has done, "to protect" - in pronunciations - does it cost? I think it's appropriate for Slovenians and Slovenians to find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. You wanted to know how much extra taxpayers' money it cost in the written question addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and also in this matter. And I can answer exactly what we have already answered in a written answer. The Ministry of the Interior and the police have not received a single euro of additional money for the work done in this regard. All these different activities are defined in the budget by the finance and the ministry within the income budget, which is paid to its employees, including the police, and the work done with respect to the Strojan family has been done within the budgetary resources we have had. We have not requested any additional funds from the Ministry of Finance, nor have we received any additional funds for this. That is why we replied to you at the time, but I can, of course, confirm that all the police activities carried out in this particular case were carried out within the budget lines that were in the National Assembly of Confirmation, of course, in a global way. We never confirm individual matters because we don't know them in advance. And that's why no extra money was spent for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u256	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u257	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I completely understand. I believe you've been drawing money from a bag belonging to the Ministry of the Interior. But from one item inside this box you had to take that money. You certainly had to because there is no item in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia called "operation" or "protection of the Strojan family". We did not guarantee this in this House, and believe me! But I believe the minister, as I said before, I know the matter, I know the people who went to Dolenjska with an invitation to go to "operation of the euro". If you have taken from this item, say, there will be no shame for the government or for us, but Strojan were not "the operation of the euro", unless this government and this country were afraid that 25 people within the Strojan family could have any effect on the introduction of the euro in this country, but this is, I hope, a little funny already. But I know the people who did this to them. And don't tell me it cost nothing because you had to take that money from one of the items. Thank you for your complementary response already in progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u259	Thank you very much. First of all, the travel tasks of the police officers and payments do not indicate what kind of operation they were involved in, but they are accounted for according to the items we have and to which we have responded in very detail. And it is true that the officers who were preparing for the operation of the euro were trained in our training centre Gotenica, which is in Dolenjska and geographically cannot be moved anywhere else. However, I cannot accept the argument that police officers who have been trained to operate in a very complex operation of the distribution of the euro currency and the return of tolar cash to the national bank are then trained for something else. There were more trainings, tactical and operational combinations to ensure a secure cash transfer, were extremely large amounts of cash. Based on the experience we have had from our colleagues in the European Union, we have prepared ourselves well for this and, as you know, we have had no extraordinary event or attempt to steal money, so the operation has been successfully completed. During that period, training of police officers from various units, including PPEs or special police units as well as regular units, took place at the Gotenica Training Centre. This was their regular work, which had been planned far before, and these preparations took place for several months. I would really like to say once again that the police have been paid for their work, that the ministry has received neither the euro nor the tolar of any additional funds for any of these operations and we have been working with the money we have in regular budget resources, where we have to provide the necessary security for citizens and citizens, regardless of ethnicity, gender or race. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u260	Thank you. Mrs Darja Lavtizar Bebler, Minister of Economy, apologized for being on a business trip to Turkey. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I wanted to ask the Minister responsible for the economy the following questions. Recently, we have witnessed the accelerated sale of state shares in various Slovenian companies. A few days ago, however, a country with a group of smaller shareholders entered into a sale contract of 97.6% of Krańska Iskraemec’s share to EL Seweedy from Egypt. The minister would therefore ask: Why did the Government decide to sell Iskraemeco? What were the criteria for selecting the buyer, and for what reasons did the Government consider El Seweedy to be the most suitable buyer? Two letters came to my attention two days ago, with which the President and two members of the Board of the Iskra Emeco at the end of last week addressed employees and convinced them that the results of the previous work in Iskra Emeco were not poor, that business in the past October was even one of the best in recent years and that the current outlook at the end of the year showed a solid business outcome. At the same time, they say they expect the new owner to enable them to fulfil the planned strategy and invest in R & D. So I ask the Minister: In what is this new owner, Egyptian, better than, for example, Engrotuš, who wanted to buy Iskraemeca a long time ago, and that was not possible? What assurance have they made that the new owner of the company will not close or sell or exhaust the company, alienate "know-how" and take 1,200 workers into employment? I ask the Minister to answer these questions orally on the next occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Štebe will ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the practice has been established that current directors and their closest co-workers buy companies that run them in such a way that they do not invest any of their own resources. They can easily borrow funds from banks without being guaranteed with their own property or with their own guarantees. In fact, banks are kind of friendly and also professionally solely assess the creditworthiness of the companies that customers, current directors manage to be able to pay off the dividends from the profits. Credits shall be granted on the basis of a guarantee of ownership which is the subject of a purchase from an approved credit for that purchase. At the same time, mortgages are minimal, and not as normal loans for natural persons when they are more than double. Despite listening to explanations that everything is legal, I think it is at least unusual how easily banks allow in some way a very friendly cooperation in funding several hundred million euro amounts for these managers' buyouts. Not even a piece of his own property or money is worth a lot of managers. In addition to the surprising comments of ordinary citizens, the competitive capacity of such companies is being reduced over a long period of time because their profits are not directed towards development and competitiveness, but rather to the return of loaned loans from new owners. At the same time, business buyers are the current managers appointed by the single-party non-democracy policy at these sites during the non-market economy. How can the owners of Slovenian banks approve high-risk loans for managers' buy-ins, given that the same banks will have to submit business reports at the end of this financial year, taking into account the second Basel accord and taking into account that Slovenia has been in the euro system since the beginning of the current year, while the Bank of Slovenia cannot in a direct or direct way cover the bad debts of commercial banks in the Republic of Slovenia? Why do commercial banks not evaluate credit ratings of companies that managers in the process of purchasing and borrowing credit provide as a guarantee for a given loan, for example, by recognised agencies such as FitchRating, Modes&Standard&Purs? How will the level of the very low rating of the consequences of poor quality affect the safety of citizens in these commercial banks and who will pay or bear the risk of these credits, higher interest, less security of deposits? Thank you for your answers, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u265	Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. I fully agree with the statements in your Member's question and the calls for action by the competent authorities, and I also support them as a finance minister. In view of the fact that all the actions described and in terms of the national economy are potentially harmful, in practice they could not have been carried out without the active participation of certain banks, I would like to stress that we are fully legitimately awaiting the exercise of strict supervision of the banking system under the law of the competent supervisor, i.e. the Bank of Slovenia. On the basis of the provisions of the Banking Act, the Bank of Slovenia is the only institution responsible and responsible for the supervision of business banks. The law gives the Bank of Slovenia the right and duty to express to the Bank, in the event of irregularities identified, a series of control measures ranging from recommendations and orders to the withdrawal of the authorization to carry out banking transactions and the initiation of forced liquidation. You are asking how business banks can approve high-risk loans for managers' buy-ins and report at the end of the year on the adjustment of their business to the strict requirements of the Basel Agreement. The Bank’s management is legally responsible for complying with the rules on risk management and assessing the debtor’s ability to repay the debt, with appropriate coordination and reservations based on the risks arising from the individual transaction. The Bank of Slovenia checks whether the business banks actually carry out effective assessment and management procedures for all, including credit risks. On the question of why business banks in recognised rating agencies do not evaluate the ratings of companies whose shares serve as collateral for loans. Under the provisions of the law, the Bank of Slovenia is competent to define which external credit rating institution it recognises as appropriate and also the criteria for how banks should use such external credit rating. The Bank of Slovenia also prescribes which credit insurance is appropriate and sets minimum requirements in this respect. With regard to your question of how the increased amount of such loans will affect the security of citizens' savings in these banks, let me explain that the bank must, in any event, assess the debtor's ability to meet its obligations to the bank and the quality of its collateral before the loan is granted. For the review, the report on the measurement of these risks is also responsible under the law of Banka Slovenije. Commissioner, in your question, you have focused on the role of banks in financing managers' buy-ins. This also makes it necessary to act as a competent supervisor, i.e. Banka Slovenije. In conclusion, let me add that it is also responsible and in accordance with the law on acquisitions in these activities, the Securities Market Agency, in particular in the framework of supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u266	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I appeal to you, Mr Minister, that, in spite of this very professional and correct response, you are trying to find professional and legally acceptable ways of taking such government measures or adopting appropriate legislation in domestic law or to mediate these your and our concerns and concerns to the leadership of the Bank of Slovenia, which, as I have understood your response, can do the most directly and quickly and prevent the possible failures of banks, savers, people and businesses in such banks, which, in fact, because of a lack of objective, probably do not have sufficient professional risk assessment for the approval of such credits, can lead to failures. On the other hand, I would ask that this development aspect of these companies be taken into account, because those who buy fresh money and do not burden the repayment of these deposits by borrowing loans and then exhausting businesses would, in fact, contribute to the development of companies with additional fresh capital. But the current way, I understand, and I could say at home that it's some kind of abuse. And this practice, which has somehow become legal and enforced, I think we need a really thorough assessment. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u268	Thank you. You want a minister? Okay. Mrs. Majda Potter. The Minister of Management is absent because he is in Brussels today and tomorrow. Do you want to do it anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask an oral question to Minister Gregor Virant and expect him to give an oral answer at the next meeting. It will not be the first time I have asked the Minister of Public Administration about NGOs. First, I addressed a written question to the government. On 10 July last year, at the 19th meeting, I asked Dr Virant a number of things, including what measures the Government will take on the basis of the findings of all three analyses it has commissioned and whether we can expect a law on NGOs. At that time, the Minister replied to me that, with regard to the analyses carried out, the Ministry had taken several measures to draw up the first position on the draft cooperation agreement between the Government of Slovenia and NGOs, to establish an interdepartmental working group, to prepare a proposal for government positions, to coordinate the implementation of the strategy in preparation, and that this preparation of government views on the agreement and the proposal for measures would be concluded in late August. However, after confirmation, both documents will be offered to NGOs for discussion. This was promised for the end of August last year. However, what can now be seen is that the Government adopted a decision on 17 May this year to adopt views on civil dialogue and to entrust three ministries to draw up their views by 5 July 2007. Well, what's interesting right now is that there's no document on the web site about where the stage of their positions is, whether they're ready or not ready or not. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in discussion with non-governmental organisations. [[...]] I therefore ask: Can we expect an agreement between the Government and non-governmental organisations to be signed, given that this document states that it is only views on civil dialogue? Indeed, the Government had, in its consideration of the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to cooperate with non-governmental [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] organisations. [[...]] Since the Commission of the European Union also has a positive attitude towards cooperation with non-governmental organisations, I am curious: What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u270	Thank you. We are now moving on to the second round of questions sent. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. Due to the current political situation - elections, referendums and consequent threat by the resignation of the Government and this related vote on the Government's confidant - reports on the situation in the areas affected by severe storms in September have disappeared from the first news pages and television and radio reports. In September, I proposed to you, Mr Bajuk, in this Chamber, an amendment to the relevant legislation which would increase the tax relief for the rehabilitation of the September storm, following the example of the solutions that the Special Law on the post-Embrance Recovery of the Court had in 1998. In response, you expressed your readiness for the Ministry of Finance to examine all initiatives and assess the possibilities and needs for possible changes. In October, I gave the Government a written initiative to draw up a special law which, in the case of grants or other aid to remedy the consequences of the water catch on 18 September, would allow additional tax relief for 2007, irrespective of the law on income and tax on the income of legal persons. The fact is that taxpayers have never before, and probably never will, fully exploit the possibility of tax reliefs up to a total of 0.5% of tax revenue. The government knows that, too. However, there are many natural and legal persons who are, of course, willing to contribute more than the current legal boundary. This can be done by means of a proposed law which will have no unexpected financial implications for public finances in the country. The government replied to me that it is not necessary at this time to amend the current system of relief for grants or to adopt a special law, as the government has taken several different measures and has sent to the National Assembly a new law on the remedy of the consequences of natural disasters, which has already been adopted and allows for the recovery of damage in the economy. Dear Minister, I ask you: Why are you so sure that tax relief legislation is sufficient to deal with the consequences of natural disasters? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Effective? [[...]] Unlike you, I think it's extremely inflexible. I also ask you how you will provide funds to remedy the consequences of the severe storm that hit Slovenia on 18 September 2007 and caused EUR 233 million and EUR 395 000 damage? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your words and thank you very much for your question. Tax reliefs, which can also be applied in the event of natural disasters, are only one measure in the tax area that can be taken into account in connection with measures to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The current legislation contains the following tax exemptions which could be relevant in these cases and are in fact already in force. First, the Income Act and now the applicable Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons provide relief for the debtors under these laws, who make part of the income available for specific purposes. Those laws shall apply from 1.1.2007. Both laws provide for grants that are even more expensive than those provided under the previous legislation. According to the law on the profits of legal persons, the taxable person may reduce the tax base for paid amounts in money and in nature for certain purposes to certain organisations of a value of 0,3 % of the tax revenue of the tax period. However, it may further reduce the tax base for an additional 0.2% of the tax revenue of the tax period when it comes to amounts in money or nature for cultural purposes and for such payments to voluntary companies set up to protect against natural and other disasters acting in the public interest for these purposes. In addition, I would like to mention that an undertaking which, for cultural purposes or for payments to voluntary companies established to protect against natural and other disasters operating in the public interest, pays higher amounts than those mentioned above and cannot make full use of them in the current tax period as a tax relief may reduce the tax base for such amounts in the following tax periods, so that it can be carried over within the next three tax periods by limiting that the tax relief may not exceed the amounts already set and cannot be higher than the tax base in any of these periods. These described solutions also apply to the Income Act for natural persons engaged in activities. In addition, the tax system contains a number of other measures that reduce the tax burden on taxpayers who have suffered damage in nature in a natural disaster. If we mention just a few of the most generally applicable definitions, these are the following. The possibility of reducing the tax on the activity should it be found that the actual tax liability at the end of the year due to a reduction in the volume of the activity will be lower than that on which the deposit liabilities have been established. Secondly, the possibility of transferring losses over the next few years over time limits. Thirdly, the possibility to enforce a decree or a reverse payment of a tax liability. Only through tax legislation solutions can the consequences of natural disasters be effectively addressed. However, they may be an integral part of a comprehensive action programme. In the context of the more general measures already taken by the Government in this area, however, it is worth mentioning the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents, which you have already mentioned. That law lays down the basis for the recovery of the damage caused in the economy caused by machinery, equipment and supplies and for the recovery of the consequences of the loss of income. This ensures that, as soon as possible, the damage is reimbursed and businesses operate smoothly and thus preserves existing jobs in the affected companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u274	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I expected such an answer more or less, as the answers to the previous two questions were similar, to my first oral and second in writing in October. However, tax reliefs do not take full advantage of known data in my opinion. Very far from taking full advantage. We still have a very large reserve here. You have also been reminded of this in the Association of Tax Advisors of Slovenia. The initiatives were also launched by the Red Cross of Slovenia and also by some major Slovenian companies. From the relief provided by the Law on corporate income tax, I could theoretically raise around EUR 25 million of resources. Since I have not observed the data, at least not available to me, how much money is actually collected from this address at the annual level in the country, I ask you, Mr Minister: Can you trust me with this information, me and the public? If this option is not fully exploited, then we have, I don't know, maybe 12 or 15 million Euros of additional options that could be invested in the rehabilitation of this disaster. In addition, the Government will also request the assistance of the European Union under the European Solidarity Fund, but it will also be able to obtain less than 10% of the total estimated damage here, only for these interventions or for first aid. So I wonder: Would you not still take advantage of these options? And please tell me how much money that is.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u277	Thank you very much. According to the known data so far at the Ministry of Finance, we know that, as far as the municipality of Železniki is concerned, 2 million and a half euros have been donated and we will get to know the final figures in the future. It's impossible to know in full today. It is also true that, in amending the Income Act as a tax on the profits of legal persons, we have actually extended the space and the possibilities for such decisions, as I have already mentioned them, not only today, but also in my previous replies. It is also true that the Government is not only planning, but also working to actually get these funds from the European Commission. However, there is still a commitment that the Government will do everything in its power to actually eliminate and correct all the damage that humans have suffered as a result of this natural disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u278	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I take this opportunity to hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, on the basis of the business provisions. He did not answer that question about how much money is collected from the relief provided by the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. These are very large funds. In addition, I think that in the National Assembly, two months after this accident, we could hold a debate and see how we can effectively remedy these consequences of this severe storm. As we say, we will be able to get less than 10% of the estimated damage from the Solidarity Fund. The estimated damage is EUR 233 million, and it will be very difficult to gather this disaster as quickly as possible and as successfully as possible. Therefore, Mr President, I propose that this answer be discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr Bevik's proposal that the National Assembly discuss the Minister's response to his question on the matter in question will be voted on tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr. Squeakle? [[He's not here.]] Mrs Majda Potrat will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u281	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In discussions on two bills, of course, these are already laws, some of the important things concerning the school field remain at stake. Regardless of the different views on systemic solutions, we all stress the need to take good care of the implementation of school legislation. On several sides, my concerned parents have turned to me and I ask you a question on their behalf, because we have heard many times that legislation needs to be amended also in order for parents to have a greater chance of having an impact on what is happening in school. In 2005, more specifically in September, you came to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport with the Chief Inspector of Education and submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the School Inspection Act. However, this bill has not changed Article 3 of the current law, under which the School Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for education and sport and that the Inspectorate is headed by a Chief Inspector for Education and Sport. They're warning me that at the inspectorate after the master inspector's retirement. Wider, not appointed or appointed Chief Inspector, but only the Acting Officer performs this function. Therefore, on behalf of all those who turn to the Inspectorate, I ask you a question: Why does the Slovenian Inspectorate for Education and Sport still not have a Chief Inspector? This question is so much more justified because, at least after those who turn to the inspectorate, the time of the inspectorate’s reaction in solving individual cases has been three times prolonged. Which means that investors have to wait much longer to respond to their applications than they have been waiting for before. So I was wondering, do you have in mind any reorganisation of a school inspection or something? Although I know you've called on the Inspector's post recently, but there's nothing new about the Chief Inspector or the Chief Inspector, so this is my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. There'll be a call. On your question, which is why the Slovenian Inspectorate for Education and Sport is still without leadership, it should be stressed that leadership exists. There is indeed no Chief Inspector at this time, but the Inspectorate is headed by an authorised official who is a long-standing officer in the field of school inspection. And I can say or find out that he's doing a great job. The practical problem is that this person is also the Secretary-General of the Ministry at the same time. And if at the last call that was issued, you chose him, you'd lose the secretary-general. That is why, after considering it, we have decided to keep the situation the way it is for now. However, we will also call for the Chief Inspector to be re-negotiated and elect a person to serve as the Chief Inspector. As you know, we have a lot of work ahead of us these days or these months, and the Secretary-General or the man who covers both functions is extremely important to us. However, I cannot agree with what you are saying that decisions have been made for a long time, that the quality of work has decreased. On the contrary, the quality of work has significantly improved since the Secretary-General's mandate has been exercised. The annual work programme was adopted before the beginning of the current year, which had never happened before. Therefore, efficiency in this aspect of supervision and performance is also greater. The number of complaints is higher each year. But the truth is that the timing of the case is shorter - I don't know where you get the information that's three times longer - on average 60 days. This is one more time faster than the average before. In addition, the annual work report is forwarded within the time limit, which was not previously available. Over the last two years, we've been introducing even six-year job reports. Cooperation with other inspections is even more intense than before. The inspectorate shall prepare intensively for the use of the criteria and criteria for determining the performance of the body itself. The number of cases carried out, the regular, planned controls, and so on, has increased significantly during this period. Since he left town last year, the quality of the inspectorate's work has not diminished in our area, but has improved significantly. But I would like to stress the following. It is true that at some point we are conceptually considering how to proceed with the inspectorate. Regardless of the restrictions on employment in the future, we will have to significantly increase the work of the inspectorate, especially if we are also successful in implementing the reform concerning, say, the transfer to the provinces of secondary education. The more we transfer certain activities to a lower level, the more the country will have to control. And the inspectorate here will certainly have a bigger role to play. We therefore expect a slightly larger staffing structure in the future. And, of course, the inspectorate will also receive a permanent chief inspector as head of this service, which is the body of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u284	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u285	Thank you for that part of the answer. Allow me, however, to have my own view of what you have answered. If the role of the Chief Inspector is so important and the role of your high-ranking officer in the cabinet is so indispensable, it is even more strange that he can perform both of your claims even better. I dare say that the comparison with the work of the inspectorate is before this human resources solution, which may be very interesting for someone, even later, but then will receive a different qualification. See, we then amended the Inspection Act in 2005 also by allowing the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education, the Andragog Centre of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Examination Centre and other qualified public institutions to do so. You will recall that the opposition had a lot of comments on this solution because from the Education Institute, which has become an advisory and research institute, part of the tasks of the supervisory nature has moved to the inspection. And you're out of them. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You return your inspections or return them to the Institute of Education. [[...]] Therefore, the comparison with the work done by the former Chief Inspector and current inspectors is somewhat on the back of the legs, as the legislation has changed in the meantime. I can't take it all like that, but especially I find it difficult to object or comment on your satisfaction with speed and quality [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] work done, given that the data is classified and I don't have access to them, so that I can challenge your allegations on the basis of the inspection reports, but I got one of those. [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u287	They don't keep your suspicions. Time has cut significantly, one more time. And that's true. It is true that in the then amended law, if I recall correctly, we have also included experts from other institutions as expert support for expert opinions. And that seemed perfectly right to us. There are also some things in which an inspector needs professional support and is probably not a more appropriate or appropriate body, such as some national institutions in the field of education and education. Thus, the nature of the work has not changed significantly since then, nor has the working conditions. The only problem is that we don't have enough employees. Now we slowly patch this up, and every year we gradually increase the number of employees. But a thorough reflection will be needed on how to proceed with the inspectorate. We would need at least twice as many people to do this work, including on the substantive side and with more expert level of experts involved in individual issues, because very, very much of the work relates to the pedagogical process itself. And there's no way out of here without an outsider. With the future inspector, we will also talk radically about these conceptual aspects in the future. I have never considered an inspection service as an instrument to directly intervene in the work of this service. She's never been abused for any reason. They have absolute autonomy in their work, and I want to keep it that way. But we will certainly set up a new inspector as quickly as possible. With this comment, I agree, and once again, I hope that we will be able to strengthen this service even next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u288	Thank you. I conclude this by asking the ministers the questions sent and by breaking this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow by deciding on the proposed decisions. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.20 p.m. by the vote of the assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please take your seats. We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the functioning of the voting device or the corresponding lamp. Thank you. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Trade Act, under the regular procedure We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. The amendment was tabled in Article 3 by the Zares Group. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. 62 Members and Members are present. 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill and brings us to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, no third reading amendments could be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. I see a deadline for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Check-in is on. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Although we have already made clear in our opening statement what this Government is doing. This government, by means of this law, trade law, abolishes minimum standards in the field of trade or knowledge standards. The same has happened in the area of hospitality. Last year, this government proposed and the government coalition passed a law on guest activities, which abolishes minimum education for guest workers, for waiters. I heard that the result of this law was a very, very discounted admission to high school in the guest house. That's 30%. Will this happen in the area of trade, commercial school? Is this government trying to actually lower the education structure at the level of the entire Slovenian population? Planned lowering. This is contrary to the Lisbon Strategy, a respected colleague and colleague, whom this Government is so pleased to stress. The second year is one of the priorities in the Presidency of the European Union for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the Lisbon Strategy. The importance of education in our society. The importance of expertise. In the framework of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, there is also a lower education structure for pre-school workers, for teachers, because it does not matter who and how they raise children. This is the government's strategy, lowering educational standards in all areas. In the Slovenian National Party, as has already been said, we will not attach such work to it. Instead of law-abiding secondary school, instead of giving us the weight of education in our country, instead of taking this step, we are going in the opposite direction. Will we? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Six, seven years later, they praised the European Union for having an increasing percentage of those who do not even have secondary education? [[...]] It's a flawed logic, respected colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u291	Thank you. The others have resigned on behalf of the Group of Members, so I am opening an application for reasons in my personal name. Anyone who wants to sign up please. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u292	Dear and esteemed, I will be very brief. Slovenia declares the need for knowledge, calls itself for a society of knowledge and development and, on the other hand, makes it impossible for some kind of basic education. We need to know that primary school, of course, is already large, very small at this point, so that a person can function normally in this society. Today, secondary education is about as much as it was 30 years ago, that university education is as much as it was years ago, as I said before, equal to secondary education, at least in relation to comparability in civilized, cultivated countries. And we make it possible to do something else with the law. We allow people to be left without education, in some way we force them to do so already because of all the socio-economic movements, and now, of course, this option. On the other hand, we know that the type of matters that we have done with the innkeepers are causing negative consequences now that will also happen in trade. I'm against lying to ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u293	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u294	Thank you for your word. I can't accept that we're agreeing to lowering educational standards. I understand that traders are advocating such a solution, because this is also linked to lower wages paid by employees in trade. I started my career at a commercial school and studied at it for seven years. And for a particular value we had that sellers and sellers in Slovenia were better educated than they were in other European countries, particularly in comparative Austria. Now that we are talking about keeping young people in the educational process as long as possible, and when we are talking about returning them to education later, that functional literacy will increase, when services are sometimes more difficult, we agree to lower education standards. Indeed, perhaps someone sees only those who put goods on sales shelves in shops and vendors. But in a good store, there's a salesman and a salesman who owns a special place. And what I think is particularly important is that the very high unemployment tax was paid by the very ones I had trained at the beginning of my career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This law is catastrophic at this point in education. It is not just that employers are thinking about getting a cheaper workforce, which will be semi-written, for trade desks. The problem is that they'll replace those who have a commercial school with those who do. This is mainly about the benefits that the Government has reaped, namely by employers, especially large and strong, who can help someone, even financially, if necessary, in order to reduce the level of education needed to recruit such jobs. It is not just those who want to self - employment but thus eliminate unemployment. It's a much heavier, worse scam, I could say, this segment of the store's employees. It started with the inn, now it's the store. It won't be long before there's no more need for nurses and they'll be without this kind of knowledge, like, health care traders, nurses will become musclers and stuff. This thing leads in the wrong direction from what is expected and necessary. Since no one has supported this kind of correction in a sufficient number of ways, the thing has remained the way it is, it seems to be bad, and my voice does not deserve such a law. Comments from the coalition up or down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats have made amendments to Article 5 of the Act, which regulates this issue, and have also tried to ensure that they receive support from the home labour body. I'm sorry she's not here. Everything you have said so far about a solution that reduces traders' knowledge standards, I agree with you. I would like to highlight the following briefly. This solution will result in a smaller entry, resulting in a lower quality of traders, as the quality of the products increases, as the product range increases and therefore the consultative role of traders is still needed. Without knowledge and without knowledge, this advisory role will not be possible. And this will certainly make our consumers much worse. And third, too: the goal is to get an uneducated trader that you can pay less. Not even Slovenian, if possible in the next phase, who will not be able to speak the Slovenian language at the end. These are unacceptable solutions, and I do not understand the Government which is proposing such solutions. I can't be for this kind of marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u300	Thank you so much for saying that. This proposal, which we are voting on today, does not take into account the referendum initiative or the referendum decision of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, this is also in some way contrary to the aspirations of Slovenian society, which strives to coordinate family and professional life to a greater extent. Last but not least, on behalf of Slovenia, I advocated that this should be introduced at European level. And Europe has accepted this initiative, i.e. greater coordination of family and professional life. And this proposal does not aim in this direction because the initiative has not been adopted. Finally, even if such an initiative were to be adopted, traders would also be pleased because the costs of doing business would be reduced and they could thus be more earmarked for the salaries of employees. Clearly, this is not an understanding, so my position is against this law. I'm not going to support this marriage because I don't want to put a store in front of a man either.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u301	Thank you. Any other interests? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 34, for 18. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the consumer credit law. We're moving to third reading. Since no amendments have been tabled in the second reading to the amended law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving to a decision on the draft law in accordance with Article 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the second is the draft law on international protection, under the regular procedure. We continue to consider and decide on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 13. If this is accepted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 13 of the Social Democrats' Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will say to this amendment what I should have said and what I intended to say to all the remaining amendments, which, in view of today's debate, I do not believe that you will accept them. However, I would like to say that all the amendments, including those proposed by the Group of Social Democrats, are in fact aimed in this direction to instill or limit the proposaler's restrictive approach in addressing this matter of international protection. In this way we have tried somehow to restore the standards that have been in force until now, but of course I am not counting on all colleagues to support our amendment or our amendments. However, I would like to say that we wanted to implement, with these amendments, the standard of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in this area, as has been the case at least so far. In fact, we also intend to oppose the non-compliance of both the Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the directives of the European Union, where the applicant has consistently adopted a restrictive approach to interpreting these Directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u303	Thank you. Is there a desire to explain your voice in your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the amendment to Article 13. There are 65 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to paragraph 36. We also have two amendments here, the first is the LDS Group of Ambassadors. If this is adopted, the amendment under number 2 will become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote on the first amendment of the LDS to Article 36 shall take place. There are 63 Members present and 21 for whom there were 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 36 of the Social Democrats' Group. Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler on behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u304	In this amendment, I would like to point out and remind fellow Members of Parliament and Members that it is substantively the same as that article, Article 26 of the current Asylum Act, which has been suspended by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia on the initiative of 30 members of the National Assembly. Please do not allow any provision to be applied in this way, which, in fact, the Constitutional Court has already announced that it will specifically shake it and believe me that it has predicted that it will be particularly shaken because it assumes that something is wrong with it. And not now in this way this ugly hypocritical maneuver to execute and adopt Article 36 as proposed. Accept the amendment as we suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u305	Thank you. He's not in his personal name. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 50. There are 65 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 51 of the Social Democrats' Group. There are 64 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 57. There are 62 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 58 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 59. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. Finally, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 78 of the Social Democrats' Group. Ms Lovtišar Bebler on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u306	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, I call on colleagues and colleagues to support our amendment to Article 78, where the rights of applicants for international protection are also added in the last indent and paragraph 1 of this Article to the right of allowance. Please, let's be aware that we are deciding on a substantial matter. In order to ensure that a person seeking asylum would also be granted a minimum level of personal dignity so that, with at least 10 euros that he would receive as a allowance, he could directly decide to meet his own need for his own choice with this minimum allowance, which would be decided by the Minister of the Interior, under which conditions and under which circumstances the applicants for international protection would be entitled to this allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u307	Thank you. What desire for personal explanation? Mrs. Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment. Article 78 states what rights the applicant has and what the Republic of Slovenia receives: residence in the Republic of Slovenia, monitoring of procedures in the language he understands, information, basic care in the case of accommodation in an asylum home, financial assistance in the case of accommodation at a private address, free legal assistance in proceedings before the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court for a legal decision, to health care, education, work and humanitarian assistance. Colleagues in the SD propose to add a pocket. We have received quite a few criticisms in the debate that we are not social, that we do not understand the problems. That seems pretty unfair to us. I have obtained information, i.e. under section 82 of the Act, including in the current one: "The applicant can help in an asylum home in matters related to maintenance and accommodation, and for the corresponding work he will also receive the award in accordance with the accepted price of the Ministry." I asked myself how many of these options are currently being served in this house, and I was informed that 120 euros have been paid in the last month of such payments. So there's no big deal about it, even though this way we could get a certain amount of money. And given what I've already said, in article 78, we're already dedicated to these people, while not for our citizens in general. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We don't guarantee taxpayers' taxes, we don't think that's appropriate, so I'm not going to support this amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u309	Since there's more interest, I'm opening a personal explanation application. Please report to anyone who wishes to explain your voice. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u310	Thank you. I will, of course, support the amendment. We're actually talking about a small amount, and we're talking about the allowance. This is about the minimum amount that an individual may have at his disposal. The other things the asylum-seekers or asylum-seekers have a right to are things that are linked to ensuring the possibility of survival and what we are so pleased to praise that we also want to enable these people to integrate into society. I am talking about the right to: education, teaching in the language of the environment in which the asylum-seekers come and so on. It is simply that petty, human dignity that a person has the feeling that he has something small in need, which he can have completely on his own. And I have to think again of the long tirades about what everything in the home can do and who can do and what can do. It is important to say how much is paid, how much is paid, how much is available for such works, and then to ask whether any minimum amount of allowance for that country is such a damage and such a cost as to make the majority of the population feel at risk in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u311	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I wasn't fourth, now I'm second, fast. Nice. I am of the opinion that certainly to those who have come because of some personal hardship, Slovenia must offer a warm home and essentially a meal. However, I am against the fact that the people who came for protection in Slovenia were also offered a pocket money, against the fact that they were also offered occasional jobs, but you see that this was left in the law. Why? Because every eighth Slovenian is hungry on the brink of survival. Mr Prime Minister, in one way or another, said that these people, who are at the edge of minimum survival, are in poor conditions, 10%. That's 200,000 people. And here we decide to give asylum money to asylum seekers. During this discussion, there were not many of you in this room, I received a message from one of the viewers who wrote the question: Why do we not give the conditions for paying the allowance to those who live on the brink of survival, namely, the Slovenes and the Slovenes? I think it's completely wrong that we've spent so much time on this issue. And once we are aware that we will also have to deal with the social problems of our citizens and citizens. Finally, on our side, a proposal has come from our Party's Vice-President at the Extraordinary Meeting College, and I have given two initiatives for an extraordinary meeting. There's no spirit, no hearing about it. We put our heads in the sand like nois and we don't see this problem. For the Azilantes, and here we are generous. I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u313	Thank you. I see that there is still an interest in the explanation of the vote and I am reopening the application. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I am sorry that this issue and the proposal must be discussed in this way. But I think it's still the right thing to say. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm also ashamed to think that an important part of the Slovenians is hard to live. Fortunately, my client and my parliamentary group, even with the help of many of you, insist that we have solutions that provide everyone in Slovenia with a minimum amount, even if they do not work. Minimum, too low, but they guarantee it. And I think that's right. In order to make sure that the amount they need is as low as possible, the amount they can get is as high as possible. But there's really no comparison between that and the asylum allowance. And there's something else I'd like to say. This allowance is one of the alternative options set out in Article 78. It is not compulsory; it is specifically decided on in an individual case. Surely it does not count when a person gets a job and a payment, but in some exceptional cases. For this reason, the law will not be ideal or bad, but to discuss it in this way, as if we do not want to help the Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and that this is at the expense of the allowance for asylum seekers, is really not good. It's a shame, no matter how much someone decides about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u315	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u316	Thank you very much. It is true that this is a state budget and a small share of this state budget for these pockets, which you are so committed to. However, the amount mentioned by Mrs Bebler, as an orientation, is EUR 10, which means EUR 300 per month. This is the amount not reached by a number of state pensions. Most farm pensions are lower than 300 euros per month. Some other categories are also below €300. And yet we must be aware that there is a need to establish some real relations in this country. And that's what this is all about. Not that I don't know what kind of expenditure it means for the budget or not, but some normal relationship would definitely be broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u317	Thank you. I see interest. I'm reopening the application, and please let it be the last time. Let's all sign up. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u318	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment. I've already said a lot about this in the debate. But I think it's a very eloquent information that we've heard before, given the possibility that this legislation offers that those who are in this house can work in the home itself, cleaning, regulating and similar things, maintaining the home, even what they deserve. But apparently there's no interest. You know, that says something. Our people have to work hard. You've talked about traders and traders before, but you haven't talked about wages yet, and that would also have to be said how much they have to work to earn. Someone would get here for free, but he doesn't want to work on his own, and he has a chance. Someone would have a pocket, but they'd have a pocket. And what's more important than being given the chance to earn a job? Yeah, well, that's the only thing he doesn't do. You know, otherwise it doesn't work. And it's also one approach to who the state gives something to, let's say, not to whom. And what matters most. The content of this law is prepared on the basis of the common European asylum policy. Thus, all EU countries have agreed on what is what individual countries need to harmonise and what they need to give. We did it and added something to it. Our neighbors in Italy don't give it up, but we're just watching the bulldozers break down, like, the buildings they live in. They're not all asylum seekers, but they've generalized it. Why should we, who have not yet reached the standard, say our neighbouring countries, be so generous that we give something more. Why is that? I won't support it, and I can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u319	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u320	Thank you very much. With this amendment to this article, which we are now talking about, we are advocating the introduction of the right to a allowance, we are talking about a allowance of more than €10 per month so that there is no misunderstanding. Not about 10 euros every day. So 10 euros a month, that's what we're talking about. At the same time, I reiterate that each time the Minister responsible for internal affairs will also lay down specific conditions when the asylum seeker is entitled to such allowance. And when you say they already have the opportunity in the asylum home to do the work they get paid for. You must bear in mind that among these asylum seekers there are also sick people, old people who go to school, and therefore they cannot work, or we know what the right or the ability to work is. I don't think we're up for this. Please consider this amendment as it is written, and as it really means, what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u321	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u322	Mr. President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Looks like we're talking in different languages or we're reading a different article of the law. This article of the law speaks of asylum seekers, and you're all talking about asylum seekers. Azilant is the one who's already gotten that status. And if I remember, and if memory doesn't deceive me, this afternoon we were saying that there were these asylum seekers in last year's year nine, but asylum seekers, I think the Secretary of State said there were about 400 last year. That's one. Second thing I'd like to say, buddy Kovacich, you cut through. This afternoon, I spoke comparatively about the size of the allowance available, how many pockets of guards are in homes for the elderly, moving from 10 to 12 euros, but for a month, not a day. And it's impossible then that it's 300 euros, which would be non plus ultra, given that the farmers' pensions are 150 euros. And once again, given that I have been explained, and I know that the Secretary of State cannot answer us today, but I am asking my colleague Darjo whether she will answer me or not. This afternoon, when we were listening, it was said that asylum seekers, we said nine, are equal to our citizens, and they're good at pocket money if they don't have other incomes of their own. However, asylum seekers were told that all European directives are taken into account in these rights listed in the eleven indents of Article 178. That's why I don't see why we should add this 12th indent talking about pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u324	This time, too, for a rich and symbolic matter, we make a symbolic amount of one great story. We are unable to put ourselves in the skin of these people, and we are unable to cross the line that appears between the right and the left in such controversy. It's simply a human relationship. We have proposed something that is truly symbolic, which is only a drop into the sea, to say that we have helped such a man at least to maintain his personal dignity. But we can't do that because we see him as a foreigner, not a foreigner, like a foreigner in our social fabric. And that's why we don't accept it. The debate is clear, it has shown this divide, of course I belong to this left side and I will therefore vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u325	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I cannot support this amendment for the following reasons. Talking about the fact that every eight citizens are hungry in Slovenia is just ridiculous. Funny in particular because there has never been so much demand for work in Slovenia as it is today. And even for me, real unemployment for those who are healthy and able to work is more than enough work. The problem is that there is little will to do, because some regret these social rights, which are right, can also be used well for those who work for 400, 500 euros a month. And that's sad. And to give some extra allowance to some, I feel like those citizens and citizens are unfair, unfair. And those rights they give, from ensuring that I don't count all these rights, there are many, many and right that they are, and for some, perhaps even too. Therefore, it seems to me that there are some additional pockets for which I think it would be inappropriate, unhygienic and unnecessary in view of the fact that this State of the Republic of Slovenia has arranged well for all citizens. But there's work to be done. Every healthy person should work. However, he who is disabled and sick is well cared for in this society.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u327	Thank you. Since it's still an interest, I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u328	I will vote in favour of this amendment. In particular, because there is a whole series of debates or explanations of vote and it was already afternoon in the debates that it was understood that the vast majority of the debaters did not understand what was going on. This article makes it very clear that asylum seekers also have the right to work. For a long time, in our country and other European countries, asylum seekers and refugees should not work in their host country. It is logical that the minister will write in the rules that whoever gets the job and is able to work will certainly not get that allowance. We have heard who could be entitled to the allowance if, of course, it was not the naked treatment, including by the billmaker, even by the Ministry, because if this is a major problem - unfortunately Mr Secretary can no longer answer it, but it is actually funny that they do not wish to return to the law the provisions already in it with their head through the wall. Not in this version now, but in the previous version. By the way, all I'd say is that I'm happy that my kids are old enough to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They themselves deserve not to go to Mr Kovacic's for pocket money, because they would like to have 300 euros, and we had the allowance of more than 30 euros a month. [[...]] It seems that some parents have no idea what a pocket is.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u329	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u330	Thank you very much. When I listen to this debate, I fear that even Christians in this hall do not fear God. To talk, so many words to lose about how people who are in catastrophic distress in their lives, like asylum seekers, our country's guests, are ruining the prosperity, the youth, and the fate of all our other citizens, because they would spend a few thousand euros a year as a country. At the same time, such debaters, who are afraid of this cost, vote in favour of the Social Transfer Act, which is the poorest layer in the country, and which will certainly increase the official data on poverty in a few years to 20%. These same ones passed the Law on Social Transfers last year, which took 3 times as much money as the finance minister had announced. That's what I'm worried about. To speak of our citizens, to vote for being poor, and on the other hand the great stories of prosperity, is to deny the god himself who was merciful to me if man believed in him. And, please, procedurally up or down, I speak as a man who doesn't care how we treat people in this country. I will support this amendment, sad that it would not be more overwhelming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u332	Thank you for your word. This morning, I was in the hall when a debate on this amendment nearly lasted for about two hours. I must be honest, I am not disappointed, everyone can express his opinion, his position, and I also said this morning that I agree with the position expressed by my colleague Kovacic. But I have to say I'm hurt in this debate. But why am I hurt? Because all the time, all the cost, all the money we spent today specifically, is worth exactly this sum, which would be an annual sum for this allowance that those people who are in trouble should have gotten. And we're doing this kind of heartburn about it. We in the hall and all the support that is in this National Assembly, and somewhere else, who has to work for four hours to discuss it, cost as much as the annual allowance for all these people. Please! That's why I'm hurt, not disappointed, it's legitimate, and everyone has a right, and I can also say I'm hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u333	Thank you. Mr. President has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u334	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask for a ten-minute recess before the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u335	Thank you. There's no more interest in explanation of vote. I'm giving you ten minutes' leave before the vote. I'm adjourning the session, which will be resumed at 7.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We're moving on to the session. Does the motioner want to break the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u337	No, thank you, I don't want a word, but we've been consulting on how we're going to decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u338	Thank you. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 78 of the law. There are 60 Members and Members present, for whom 22 votes against 34. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, no amendments were adopted to the draft law, amendments could not be tabled in the third reading. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs. Shirca, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u339	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I was disappointed over today's debate on this law, as I was disappointed with the bill, and also that as many amendments as could be tabled to remedy the imperfections of this law have not been adopted. At the same time, from today's, not a short debate, I will not say intolerance, but dissatisfaction or even fear that, if we are too correct in adopting legislation that adopts and permits, the rights of foreigners in Slovenia, asylum seekers, will then have too much liberalism in Slovenia, which, in the example of other countries, will push for too much conservativeism, if they bring perhaps those people who come for the protection of others, too much trouble into our peace, into this Podalpian peace. Sometimes it was even a hunch that they were bringing too many possible crimes that would disrupt our peace. I repeat that such a law, as adopted, is not sufficient to meet the standards that we have been reminded of, above all, by civil society initiatives that have made numerous comments and that we have wanted to hear and remedy at least some Members of Parliament, so that what happened years ago with the adoption of the Asylum Act, which the Constitutional Court had to keep because it was not internationally acceptable and even inconsistent with our Constitution. I'm afraid this will happen again in this law. But there is sufficient satisfaction in our country that people in distress should not open their hands in a way as if they were sufficiently sensitive society, even because of international law, they had to do so. In this sense, we will not support the law in this respect in the Zares Group and also in the absence of such additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u340	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u341	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have decided not to support the bill. There are more reasons for this, two of them are the ones to be mentioned. One is that it's actually a fraudulent Asylum Law. Again, those demands, or those proposals that the Constitutional Court has already addressed and stated what is wrong with them, are repeated. Now, just under the second title, under the second name, they're again trying to smuggle inhumane solutions into our society. But the second reason is that it's humane. We Slovenians need to remember, in fact, that we have already been immigrants, that we have sought asylum in various countries. That in 1991, for example, they were offered to us by Austria without any restrictions or bullying. That we knew in the 1990s that we had ourselves accepted asylum seekers from other republics and that they had not actually brought us anything bad. That in 2007 we are adopting a law that is a worse solution than it was years ago, this could be more embarrassing to us. I am not talking about those common nouns offered by the European Union and on which we are so eager to hang, I am talking about the comparison of Slovenia today, Slovenia yesterday and Slovenia tomorrow. If we're able to argue over 4,000 euros here and prove things that don't have any smart rational basis, then it's really hard with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u342	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u343	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, we will not be able to support this bill for the following reasons. As this bill limits the legal remedies available to asylum seekers, the accessibility of the procedure is limited to a greater extent than necessary, the right to freedom of movement is restricted, a pre-trial procedure for which the Constitutional Court has already announced that it will be examined in particular. This law is even another step back, even from what was adopted in this National Assembly last year and about which 30 Members were brought before the Constitutional Court, because, of course, we were not satisfied with it and because we were convinced that in some articles there were not enough conditions to comply with the Constitution. In this proposal, too, we see excessive restrictiveness and probably non-compliance with our constitution, with the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees and with the European directives governing this area. Above all, this bill lacks the minimum humanity which should be the fundamental guide of this law. That is why this law is not acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u344	Thank you. I'm opening an application for reasons of vote on a personal behalf. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u345	Thank you very much. It is true that when this law is being examined and the proposal itself, it follows the European Directive. The problem is somewhere else. That we think that we should never affect the content of any directive and that we do not influence it. We all that Europe has to offer, I would say, confirm without much debate. The debate on this issue on the Committee on EU Affairs is only a symbolic one, but it is not a false belief that we are deciding on something. We confirm what the government is preparing. The government usually confirms what they have prepared in Brussels. Soon this Europe will be the one for which I will begin to doubt whether it is right and whether it was wise that I voted at that time without much thought to go there. When personal relations get worse or worse because of some respect for a European directive, but this is not mandatory, then I think we should maintain our level of thinking, even if it is different, but at the same time it is consistent and follow worse solutions just because Europe has invented it, I think it is irrational, without pride, without its own wisdom and reflection. And if that's the attitude we're supposed to defend in Europe, then I won't be there. I'm just going to have to vote against this law when even in the most improbable change of 10 euros a month for the severely affected people we can't offer, it's so sad that we can't say. And it absolutely makes me feel that I can't support such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u346	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, for 37, for 21. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the suspension of the 12th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on residence registration. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 6th item of the agenda - to the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments to the criminal code in the context of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending the Penal Code is not suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the delegation, Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u347	It's not true he's not right. Perhaps it is not a good time and once a year this proposal of our amendment to Article 300 of the Penal Code will be appropriate. Time will order that, after all, this Europe, which some already doubt, has also ordered Slovenia to behave differently or more restrictively when it comes to discrimination against others when preparing its own legislation. That it should do something different in its own legislation. Mr Šturm also committed himself to this when he was in Luxembourg in February at the meeting of the justice ministers of the Council of Europe. As a result, he will be forced to settle this area sooner or later. We heard today that we're not good enough. We've just done it a while ago, and we're also referring to studies that have been done. You will also get these in your hands once, and these will tell you that there is a need for a different arrangement under Article 300 of the Penal Code. This is said not to sanction and penalise only certain inappropriate conduct in society. This is said not to agree that the criminal code prohibits incitement to intolerance solely on the basis of religious, racial and national differences and affiliations. There are other affiliations, other circumstances that we have also defined by the amendment, when the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service have ordered us to do so, rather than the circumstances in which the hate speech that incites violence - it is not an insult, it is not Article 133, it is not a matter of a different opinion, it is a matter of respect - but a speech that provokes violence and which can also have violent consequences. This needs to be changed. We have done this, otherwise there are other solutions, but so far there is no listening. We are aware that the Constitution in some way, not in some way, allows freedom of expression, but at the same time restricts it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It limits places when it interferes with the integrity of people and individuals and forces violence and violence against society. [[...]] As I say, it is likely that someone else will be in the future, not me anymore, but still in this room, that they will do, which you obviously will not do today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-33.ana.u348	Thank you. Who in their personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the proposal for a decision is open. There are 58 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am informing you that this is the end of the legislative procedure for the bill. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night and good night.
