ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Janez Drobnič, Anton Kokalj, Martin Mikolič from 2 p.m. on and Franz Pukšič. We're moving to five. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A MEDICINAL PRODUCT LEGISLATION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister of Health, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the second reading, we have a proposal for a medical bill. We know that in Slovenia the area of medicine is currently left to the market, it is carried out as an economic activity and is not regulated by law. Users decide on their own judgment and choice of medical systems and methods when searching for medical services. On the other hand, healers are left to themselves and their ingenuity. In such a system, healers, as we know, can engage in non-professional activities, and they can avoid responsibilities when appropriate. Education is carried out primarily through the system of courses carried out by different private institutions and individuals. In any case, we also want to regulate medical education in the future with this law. Health care is not based on scientific evidence and cannot therefore be included in health care and in legislation governing health care. That is why we have decided to prepare a special law that will regulate the area of health care in Slovenia in a suitable way, in a way that will allow for such normal, good education of physicians, their controlled operation and at the same time their potential for the development of individual activities within the framework of the treatment in the future. At first reading, the bill had quite a debate on the Committee on Health, particularly with regard to the inclusion of the terms "traditional", "alternative" and "complementary" medicine, and there were some problems with the establishment of a chamber. The Ministry, as a bill-maker, remains in the position that the use of terms such as "traditional", "alternative" or "complementary" medicine means misleading the users of these services to be medical. The term "medical treatment" is more appropriate. Instead of a chamber, it was proposed to designate a public authority holder, which was not acceptable or unacceptable, because it is a multitude of medical practitioners who question whether they will establish a chamber or a professional association, so that public powers will not be granted in this case. As regards the proposals to carry out tasks within the Ministry of Health, however, given the general starting point, why the Medical Chamber is being set up, we estimate that the Chamber will have an expert approach to the treatment of matter as required by medical activity, while the Ministry is based on the sphere of authority and administrative decision-making and cannot be subject to professional review. In this case, the Ministry needs an interlocutor in this area who will have an overview of the whole of the medicine and not just of individual professional associations that only exercise their own interests. In view of the evidence in the debate that there is no clear definition of what medicine involves, it was deleted from the proposal by law that a healer is carrying out a medical activity to improve the quality of life. By this, we have ruled out all methods in which people relax or take preventive care of their health. The Ministry will also adopt a sub-legislative act setting out which medical systems and medical methods are subject to the law and to what extent. With that, I am responding to the main dilemmas with regard to the proposal for a law which arose after the first reading. However, the purpose of this law is, of course, to protect people's health, so I suggest that you confirm the law at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 22nd regular meeting on 28.6.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health addressed the Proposal for a Medical Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for a legislative procedure. On 24.4.2007, a group of Members, with first-signed Ljub Germić, submitted a request for a general discussion. The general debate on the bill was held at the 28th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 30.5.2007. Following final consideration, the National Assembly adopted the conclusion that the draft Law on Medicine at first reading was suitable for further consideration and was allocated for second reading to the home working body. In addition to the text of the draft law and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the members of the Committee received comments from the Association of Physicians of Slovenia and comments from the Slovenian Homeopathic Society. In addition to the representatives of the proposed law and the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Association of Physicians of Slovenia, the Slovenian Homeopathic Society, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative and technical aspects, and has drawn up comments to a specific article. In a brief introduction to the bill, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Marusic, pointed out that an extensive presentation of the bill by the proposer had already been made at the first hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly. The proposer wants to regulate the area of medicine that has been left to the market in Slovenia and has been carried out as an economic activity, while both users of services and healers are left to themselves and their ingenuity. Amendments to the draft law were tabled within the time limit set by the following proposers, sent groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, as well as sent groups: LDS, SD and Non-Aligned Members. Here I would like to point out that amendments have been tabled to all articles except Articles 13, 21, 44 and 52 and, in fact, to all the headings of individual chapters, the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 10 has been tabled. In the debate, the members of the Committee paid the most time and attention to the additions tabled by the parliamentary groups: the LDS, the SD and the Non-Aligned Members, as these supplements fully amended the proposed concept of the law. In a broad and controversial debate involving all members of the Committee and most of the participants, explanations were given for the proposed solutions, which otherwise regulate the field of medicine. The differences between the proposer of the draft law and the proposed amendments to the LDS, SD and the Non-Related Members groups have already been demonstrated by the use of the terms of reference, the definition of the activities and forms of treatment and the use of the methods that the medicinal activity should contain in the recording and management of this treatment, the definitions of operators and the conditions to be met, in the way in which operators are pooled and integrated in the field of activity, the management of the register and so on. Most of the drafters did not agree with the bill. The Committee then proceeded to the vote on the decision on the amendments tabled and the articles to which the amendments were tabled. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, namely SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and endorsed the amendment to Article 6 of the LDS, SD and Non-Aligned Members. The Committee did not support all the remaining amendments tabled by the LDS, SD and Non-Aligned Members, nor did it support the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 10. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law at the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments. By incorporating parallel amendments into the legislative proposal, the Health Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which is currently under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 28th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 9.7.2007. I am putting to the debate first Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD groups and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 2 and both amendments. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. The issue of the relationship between the Ministry of Health and the health sector has been raised throughout the preparation and treatment of the Health Act, as well as wider access to medicine than the obvious term will be defined in our law, although the term "complementary and alternative medicine" has already been much more widely established in the world. Of course, it is wrong for us to have the term "medicine" appear in the medical profession in any way, because it is reserved strictly for traditional medicine. And in this respect, of course, we have considered and repeatedly warned that this law, which Slovenia needs bloodily, is essential in order to protect patients and patients, who are also victims of many charlatans and aggressors working in the field of medicine many times, so that this law will not bring what we want to gain. Modern trends in the world are moving in the direction of cooperation between complementary and alternative medicine and traditional medicine. This is also discussed in a number of documents adopted by the World Health Organization, the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. In this sense Slovenia is moving away from these modern trends, because unfortunately in Slovenia it has prevailed and won, if I may say so, an unmodern approach, an extremely conservative approach in relation to complementary and alternative medicine. I will use these terms strictly myself, because I believe that with the term "medication" it was already aprioristic in some way to create an impression of some inferiority, and last but not least, the minister said in the introduction that medicine was not based on scientific evidence. We have spoken and had numerous press conferences - I hope that you have also followed them in the ministry - where it has been shown that in Slovenia many doctors who have studied in the Faculty of Medicine are engaged in various forms of medicine, are even organized, so that in Slovenia there is the so-called INTA company and within it also the Committee of Physicians of Integrative Medicine. Our press conference was attended by doctors themselves, doctors who graduated from the Faculty of Medicine and who warned that the direction we go in Slovenia in relation to complementary and alternative medicine is not the right one. And, of course, there was a particularly interesting discussion among these, in particular, of Dr. Papuga, who said how much they wanted to come to what the minister was talking about so that we could check our work in a scientific way. Some of the doctors, if so called, have already done so, and one of them who is very intensively involved with the Institute of Jožef Stefan, Dr. Domančič, who unfortunately stated in this law that, if such a law is adopted in Slovenia, he does not want to participate with us or will move his activity elsewhere. Finally, in some way, doctors are also threatened with the withdrawal of a license under the proposal of another law, the Medical Service Act, in so far as they will deal with any medical or method of complementary and alternative medicine in any way. And this Article 2 is essential, because this Article somehow sets out the definition and the effects of these methods. This shows the whole resistance to getting such a law in Slovenia when medicine, traditional medicine and complementary and alternative medicine cooperated, which would be most useful for patients and would have the greatest impact on them. Many medical schools in the world have already introduced among the subjects that are in their colleges, including the basics of traditional and alternative medicine. Many countries even finance these methods from compulsory health insurance funds, some of which are financed by various supplementary insurance funds. In short, the arrangements are different, but so conservative, so retroactive, as we will get with us, which sets such a sharp cut, so high a barrier, so high a wall between complementary and alternative medicine and traditional medicine, I have not actually found the law that would be on this substantive basis so, I will say, retroactive and build on the fact that it is not good to link it in any way or not to place this sharp boundary between traditional medicine, which is placed on the pedestal of the only scientifically proven science or science, and anything else that is somewhere less valuable. I think it is bad that the Ministry opened the door and listened only to a narrow circle of doctors who have an inquisitorial relationship with complementary and alternative medicine, because this circle is not fully open, as it was in the first reading, when we talked a lot here, wanted, shown in the direction, as if there was actually no one among doctors who would have opened or supported complementary and alternative medicine. Of course, we also listened to the comments of the Association of Nurses, Grandmas and Medical Technicians who also participated, and we invited them to give a public opinion, because these are the ones with the patients most. These are those with patients 24 hours a day who are also with those who enter the most difficult period. And in this sense, they have also said and have a Complementary and Natural Medicine Committee, they learn, they even carry out a number of techniques themselves. Of course, there are doctors we know and do so, many of whom use these techniques, but unfortunately, they say in the end, that is not what they talk about. In Slovenia, we obviously do not hope to say out loud that this medicine also brings certain results, but in particular to try to really separate the grain from the weeds - to enable research, which of these methods also brings some results, which in fact may actually be stealing only money from the pockets of people in distress, patients and patients. I must say, unfortunately, at least for our group, if we are fully aware that we are also disappointed in this law that no amendments have been adopted on the committee. Today, all three parties or parliamentary groups, LDS, SD and unrelated members of the Zares Group are re-invested, perhaps with less hope for success, but in this way we want to say to the Slovenian public that both in medical circles and here in Parliament, we are the ones who think otherwise, who do not look at these things as backward and conservatively as we think that many patients and patients in distress are also turning away from health because of the many health problems that are within the healthcare system, that, of course, we have to tell the patient, in particular, who is even officially told that he is no longer being helped, to enable him to receive quality information - and this information could also be given traditional medicine in this process. You wanted to avoid this, the patient can't come to his doctor in Slovenia and I'll say, with a marriage basis, it's probably going to happen in practice, "or do you think it's appropriate for me to try it again," or something like that. Of course, it is bad that they do not cooperate or that we will set these barriers, so unfortunately, as I mentioned yesterday, this is one of those laws that means, at least for our group, disappointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to state the reasons why the Slovenian National Party has tabled an amendment to Article 2. I hope that you will listen to me and that we will be able to convince you why the specific amendment of the Slovenian National Party. First time. In the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that the guarantee is also our President, Mr. Zmigo Trimeniti Jelinčič, who is still at home in these waters, because we are convinced that the term, this is the same as the term, is not the proper translation of the term "Traditional Medicine and Complementary and Alternative Medicine". In fact, it is not appropriate and we can also tell why. It's too narrow! As you know, the term "medical doctor" in Slovenia unfortunately has a negative connotation in history, since the terms "charlatan" and "mazac" are all the same. This is also evident from the Government's material The assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the position of the Health Council of the Ministry of Health of the 67th meeting of 1998. So, that's a negative accent, for the first time. Next time, it's too narrow. Thirdly, the drafter of the law opposes the term which, I stress, is in use in the World Health Organisation, which is used in the World Health Organisation, which contradicts the term "traditional, complementary and alternative medicine". Clearly, it is against us because in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that the opposition to the term used by the World Health Organisation stems from the view that there is only one medicine, and that there is scientific medicine! In doing so, I would like to remind you that it is not until the 20th century that the so-called scientific medicine began to develop. In the 19th century, back in the 19th century, doctors - according to the official word - medical doctrine - did not know, left blood to patients, wore leeches, used leeches in treatment and similar non-scientific medical methods, even though they were official doctors. All doctors also swear on Hippocrates' oath, and this one lived, if you know, from 462 to 377 BC. C.E. No. when there was no scientific medicine at all. In short, with the amendment to Article 2, in the Slovenian National Party, I would like at least the term on which the proposer insists, i.e. "the doctor" - once again, I would like to stress that in Slovenia this has a very negative connotation and that we can use "alternative" or "conventional medicine" because it is used by the World Organisation. So if this term "medical doctor" is left, we would like to correct this situation with an amendment, or we would like to try to explain exactly what the healer means. Therefore, the amendment specifically states that the medical activity carried out by operators is the one for the treatment, the improvement of psychophysical well-being and the quality of life of the service user. And that medicinal activity includes measures and activities based on traditional, complementary and alternative medicine and carried out in a way that is not harmful to health. I think that this amendment is not harming either, but improving the law that this Slovenia really needs. I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that you consider the content and find that this amendment is, in fact, justified and would be good if we accepted it, so it will be, at home, as we say: wolf sat and goat whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Mr Minister with colleagues and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to begin my debate with the following conclusion. The medicine has certainly failed or has not been present in Slovenia since October 2004, but it has probably been for several decades if not centuries. I therefore wonder why colleagues from the Liberal Democracy, who have covered this area for 12 years or even more, have not yet tried to regulate the relevant law in the past, because this is an important area and it would have been worth paying more attention to before. We hear today that this law places high barriers between official medicine and medicine. I don't see these barriers anywhere, and I don't follow them, and even less, I feel like it would actually be. This law mainly governs the unregulated area, which has been present in Slovenia for some time and is becoming increasingly chaotic in this area as well. And last but not least, because of unordered areas like mushrooms in the rain, there are a number of so-called healers who sell anti-payment services primarily to naive people and to those who have this last plant somewhere because they want to fix or improve their health. However, this law protects users at least in the original or main purpose. We understand the key purpose of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party in protecting users and still allowing them to choose and use these services freely. And last but not least, this law also protects healers or those who engage in it or engage in it. For we know that even unpleasant things can happen through work, tragic, and if they have been unprotected, healers or unprotected may be extremely dangerous for them too. This law, however, assigns or introduces institutions to assist, and above all provides that insurance will have to be provided here, and that insurance companies will, in the event of some compensation, help the healers - to pay if those who so require are entitled. Use of the term, that's the amendment I'd like to amend. I do not judge under any circumstances that this improves the law or, in any way, otherwise regulates this area. As we tell someone, the term itself does not concern content, but it is particularly easy, the term itself or the change of term, to help someone try to deceive or even confuse users. For during medicine there is not only some difference, but I do not see the need for any added word to try to unify or to compare these matters a little bit more. In this law alone, I do not see any obstacles to cooperation between healers and official medicine. Moreover, even this law provides that the user is able to ask a doctor to tell his opinion about a doctor, a method, and this can only be helpful to any user. Neither with a single article nor with a single word does this law prevent or restrict this cooperation. Even here, when we can hear that it will be necessary to return the license to an official doctor who will perform the field or would like to perform. There is no mention of this in this law. And that is certainly not true of such a claim. But I am confident that this law will begin to regulate this area. Here I would like to stress 'important' because here it will set up some frameworks where this area will have to be shaped within all these definitions, where official institutions will be introduced to oversee this area, which will also help this area in terms of the provision of professional assistance. In particular, this area will be obtained or created by an interlocutor, who will then be able to also use the medical faculty, to further try certain methods to lead to some research, a finding which, as a result, may also contribute to the achievement of the so-called official recognition of certain methods. It means that, in this way, healers, and their methods, can also begin a possible way through such institutions to bring this medicinal activity closer to one another, and can also step in with official medicine, of course in areas where this can also be proved. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not see the need in any way to use the word "alternative medicine" as they wish, but we support such a dictatorship as the Ministry has already introduced in its initial proposal, which is why we do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u11	Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Of course, the Ministry disagrees with the amendment or the proposer. We have had quite a broad debate here on this title, on this title of the activity itself, and also on those who carry out this activity. In fact, it is a fitting title for me. Of course, we have not tried to diminish its importance by this title. On the contrary, I think this is also a real address for their activities in this area. Nor is there any talk in this law of non-relationship between official medicine and medicine. In the introduction or at the beginning of the drafting of this law, we have also written that version, which continues to be repeated today, and it is not in this bill for quite some time, this is an absolute separation between official medicine and medicine, so that in the event of a professional professional occupation of a doctor with medicine there would be a withdrawal of the license. This has so far been written in one of the rules of the Chamber, although it is already the assembly itself that has excluded this part from the signature when the licence is obtained and, of course, we have withdrawn it from this bill. For this reason there are several reasons: one reason is that this is regulated already by Hippocrates' oath and other laws, and there is no need to discuss this non-compliance further in this law. However, it is not stated that a doctor should not be involved in any of his activities, nor in any of these cases nor in any of its kind, if he considers that such treatment methods can also help him to treat his patients, but of course this use can only be non-profit in the context of the treatment of official medicine. Thus, there is a great deal of talk about this cooperation in this law, and this cooperation is possible, not only possible - this cooperation is also desirable. What the law actually does with its title, but also with this article, and with subsequent articles, makes it impossible or attempts to prevent, is that the medicine would play a negative role in the treatment of patients who resort to medical treatment before certain options in official medicine are excluded and in some cases the only ones can lead to recovery. This is our desire, and I hope that all those who will decide this law will also. As far as this scientific evidence of medical methods is concerned. Look, medicine didn't come against these methods! If we just take the acupuncture. Acupuncture has in the past been exclusively in the field of medicine. When it was proven that acupuncture can actually achieve results in a scientific way, acupuncture has also become part of official medicine, at least in some parts. And such options exist in the future for all areas of medicine, insofar as such options prove to be in fact and are scientifically proven. For the time being, other areas of this scientific evidence do not have and it is difficult to talk about official medicine. Now, what has so far been largely researched in the field of medicine has largely proved to be the so-called placebo effect. This placebo effect can be demonstrated in each substance used as a medicinal product and is partly due to some of the psychological effects it has. In some countries, such as Switzerland, it was also possible to use these medical methods from health insurance for some time, and later it turned out to be inappropriate. Thus, even if the term 'doctor' was inappropriate in this Article, it would be difficult to find - at least I do not know what other term would then be used in this case. I think "medicine" is an extremely good term and "medication" is the right term for the methods used here. We, as the Ministry in this case, oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you. Are there any other interests? Yeah. The application shall be submitted for discussion on Article 2 and both amendments to this Article. Mr. Barovich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, tell me why you are so stubborn! No, I'm serious. Look who wants you to insist on the term "health." [[...]] Okay! This term is -- but look, the amendment you say, "We don't accept it." But look, we want - the Slovenian national party in the amendment to Article 2 uses your term "medical activity". In the Slovenian National Party, we know, as the Government should know, that the law must be clear, concrete, precise, corrosive. And with this amendment, we just tell you exactly what a medical activity is, and nothing else. But why not? What is bad if we say very precisely that the medical activity is the one carried out by the care providers, the improvement of the feeling, the quality of life. What's wrong with that? What, why this amendment? [[..]] Can't officials prescribe it if it's accepted? We don't want anything wrong with that! And secondly, look. Why we Slovenians are becoming more papal than the pope and how you can claim, as we have heard from one predecessor, the entire World Health Organization uses the term "complementary alternative medicine". World Health Organization, the whole world. And we don't! We're something more, we're smarter than they are - or what? Once again, well, we've agreed that the term "health" will not be the way it is all over the world. Okay. But at least allow us through the amendment to define exactly the activity, there is nothing else, there is nothing serious, there is no pain, there is nothing to change. But why, you know, then the opposition really gets angry because it's all a priori, it's all but a priori against. I see no substantive change, but only a very precise definition of the law. I'll tell you a little bit more about that at Article 4. And take this for your own good. We need such a law, it is right that you did it, but at least let us listen at times, that some definition is just necessary to make some article too weak, inaccuracy, too perfect. We just want to help, that's all. And then we get annoyed by that stubbornness, and we're going to be against it, and even though you're talking, healing is the real term. Because we don't change it, because we use it, we just want to draw it accurately, nothing else. Please have at least so much understanding, colleagues and colleagues, in considering the laws that - once again - are very important - and it is right that the Ministry has taken him away every day!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope this lack of light in this hall has no symbolic significance. The lights are going out. He usually leaves the hall at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u17	Mr Kontic, the service services are trying, but so far they have not been able to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much. It's been two days. The fact that the Minister does not agree with the amendments is nothing new, the fact that the coalition does not agree is nothing new in this Chamber or on the home work bodies. The story repeats itself. Already in the introduction, the president of the working body said how the matter was done or what was acceptable and what was not acceptable on the committee, and this will be the case today. Thus, whether we say or say anything about this law or not, the decision has fallen long before this law is passed. Even these controversys over and over again, "you were 15 years old and why didn't you do it?" I'm sorry, you have a government now, you're a coalition, and you have to do something about it. You have a coalition contract that doesn't mean much to me, but it's interesting to look at it every so long and find out what you didn't do, what you predicted. But there's no point in this marriage. You are responsible today for the conduct of this policy, and we will again and again remind you of this. That's what you wanted so badly, and now you have to do it. In this law, the Ministry was probably in charge of protecting users on the one hand and modern regulation on the other. Now we're stuck somewhere in the middle, protecting with the establishment of a medical chamber mainly by contractors, users slightly less, but we're far from this modern arrangement as they know it abroad. In this second article, to which we have jointly tabled an amendment, we have been able to table it here because the article is open, the other important articles to which we have tabled amendments on the home working body are unfortunately closed. Unfortunately, neither were the amendments that sought some middle way, i.e. between the proposal of the Ministry, which has one concept, during the proposal of the opposition, where we have another concept, a different view of this law, and in the meantime the Homeopathic Society, which tried to make the text, prepared by the Ministry, acceptable to the opposition and the coalition, acceptable. No, everything has been rejected and, therefore, today we can only be cosmetically correcting certain articles, as I said in the introduction, without the great hope that anything would have been adopted; you will probably convince me in the evening when I vote or say that I was right. The problem in this Article is avoiding the term "medicine". Those who deal with the alternative, those who would like these two branches, official and alternative medicine, to get a little closer to helping the patient with their hand. It is very sad when the patient finds that there is no more help in official medicine. Of course, it runs wherever it is possible to save its own life. And I don't know why these people who are dealing with it wouldn't let it just be some sort of alternative medicine, like it's all over the place. No, we will make a very sharp cut, and I am pleased to explain to the minister, that we did not hear on the committee last week that they are also withdrawing from that proposal of a law that is not directly related to this law, and it was written in a draft, working text or whatever, that the doctor loses his license if he is involved in alternative medicine. Now that's withdrawn, which is very good, I welcome this matter. Because if I want something, I want people who have an education to do it in the field of alternative medicine to be able to really offer me a service that they actually predict. So I see no reason - but I can't say that I don't know the background because I know it - why not write the definition in this second paragraph as we suggested. It is not only that, although I agree with this, that the translation is bad, but why not write in this text in addition to traditional complementary and alternative medicine. Why not use the word "medicine," why use "medicine," why use the term "medical." This has also been mentioned that the name of the physician is of some minor importance, that for physicians we assess people who are involved in medicinal products with medicine do not have much in common. Thus, it can now be understood from the definition of this article, so it can also be read very precisely, and that is why support for this amendment is also available. Next, I know that knocking on your door makes no sense, that you have decided not to open the door and that you are going to do this thing the way you set it up. However, I am sure that this law will have to be amended and refined in the future so that it will also have the call of what they have elsewhere in Europe; that is, modernity, approximation, all kinds of medicine, and you call it medicine, we call it medicine.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings from colleagues, colleagues, all interested parties who are sure to accompany this consideration today. Mr Kontic says it is logical that the coalition does not agree with their proposals, and there is nothing unusual and new that the opposition does not agree with the proposals submitted by the Government or by us, so that we can discuss here at this level. I would like to stress this again, we have already stressed in the New Slovenia Group that we think the law is more than necessary to govern this area. The fact is, when we become patients, it's in our hands to whom we turn. However, in our New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the State must give those guards who protect us from possible non-professional interventions, even if it is, as we say, our voluntary will to decide on or reject a certain intervention. I am not an expert in this field, but we in our group have asked about these things, and the stakeholders have also come to us and have taught us a little about this, both by doctors and those who are involved in the activities of medicine. Many of them, who really want good, have said that at this first stage they want a slightly more closed system, slightly harsher conditions, a slightly stricter system to bring this area to some normal level in Slovenia. Mrs Orazam, a fellow Member, says that we are not talking enough about doctors and healers being the same, but I am afraid that if the law were laid on different grounds, it would once again tell us that we want to destroy medicine, official medicine, that we want to dissolve somewhere or that doctors and our medical system will devalue themselves. I find it difficult to say whether the law is ideal or not, but I think it is certainly more than anything we have ever had. I can't support this amendment, first and second.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Versnik. Excuse me, Mr. Versnik. Mr. Kontic has responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was mentioned, because of this it is right to try to answer Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar. It's not as easy as you wanted to present the relationship between the opposition and the coalition. In fact, my Group of Social Democrats should think what they want to think about this cooperation; in the partnership for development we cooperate and participate in all the laws they invite us to and what is the issue of partnership and these laws we are also trying to improve as far as we can. So we support these laws later, at least most of these laws later in the National Assembly. And he's the government's proponent, and we're the opposition. But the truth is, I wasn't entirely specific about the amendments. At the meeting of the parent working body - I think about 51 articles - we have tabled almost all the amendments to the articles. Almost all the articles were adopted by one of the opposition's amendments. So that you haven't accepted anything, it's not true, you've accepted one of the maybe 60 amendments with which we wanted to improve the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you. Even Mrs. Orazem has responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I, too, was mentioned and, of course, mentioned in a very strange context, as if I were such that I apriorously oppose everything proposed by the coalition. I must say that I strongly deny this, at least in a substantive sense, in the event that your opinion is similar to that of today - unfortunately, only in the opposition - you would be defending traditional medicine. That's not true! However, I must say that I am also a little surprised by the position of your Group of Members. Finally, with the experience of the Presidential candidate, Mr Peterlet, you too could show a substantial increase in the scope of this area, which is what we are talking about today, and the subject and the sombreness of this space, in the sense that we want to marginalise the area of complementary and alternative medicine, although nowhere else in the world. However, I will give a few points later in the debate from this very point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you. Well, Mr. Veršnik, now you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings to the minister and his associates. Dear colleagues. The Law on Medicine is certainly necessary, with this - at least that's what I hear - all colleagues and colleagues in the opposition also agree, and it is, in fact, the first to regulate this area legally, to be fair. I can also agree with the conclusion that it is not the best, but it is certainly better than the one we have never had before, and we do not have; despite the very capable, creative and productive ministers of the past. I am surprised that some insist on amending Article 2, since the title itself cannot affect the content of the law. For me, content is much more important, so let us allow more time to rush on the content itself and improve through the content of the law, not through the title. The law is primarily aimed at protecting users who are in current practice many times victims, sometimes also tragic victims, which is certainly not good. And we're called to make these things impossible. Let us try to reform the law in substance - and as far as the amendments were concerned, when they were mentioned in this way; indeed they were very large on the committee, but at the same time it must be said that these amendments changed only the design of the law and therefore, respected colleagues, do not wonder why we rejected them. The system or direction of this law has been made and according to this design the law has come to a day, and you wanted to turn the whole concept upside down, which you must also admit that we cannot agree with this, nice or ugly. Let us be realistic, no law we have adopted in this House is so good that it should not be corrected sooner or later. In fact, the law, which is here for the first time when we do not have some experience, is practical experience with this law. And I am not so unrealistic that I would not admit that the practical experience or implementation of this law will bring us some practice. And in view of this, I am convinced that in the future we will only be able to improve this law and allow this law to live and practice will bring experience. Of course, I am sure that these experiences will only improve the law in the future and bring more to both users and healers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to everyone, especially those who watch it on TV screens. I didn't mean to discuss the law on medicine, but when I listened to fellow Members of the ruling coalition, I decided to come up with a very simple question - why don't you accept good suggestions. What is proposed in the definition of practically four parliamentary groups and what has been proposed on the working body has been proposed as a definition by those working on it. In doing so, as is clearly stated, they used the internationally recognised definitions of the World Health Organization. And of course, the story "Health" and "Medicine" here is a fundamental story. And today I heard that you don't admit it because that's what you said? - a conceptual question. My colleague in front of me was talking about not trying to get around the address. We don't change the title, we propose a change of definition. And we propose to amend the definition as designed by the international health organisation of which Slovenia is a member. But you say you don't see the need for these changes. I understand you, because, of course, you don't see the need, as the President of the Government said yesterday, after the Cancer Institute would be 25 degrees. Yesterday, the president of the government said, "My minister is being persecuted because the Cancer Institute is two degrees warmer." Do you imagine that in this Hall of the National Assembly instead of 21 degrees as far as it is now, the climate will be extinguished - President, I suggest you turn off the climate, because that's probably why the lights don't burn - and in a few hours there will be 28, 29 and 30 degrees. The Oncology Institute is responsible for drug damage. Nothing will go wrong in this hall. I therefore suggest, Mr Minister, that you make it very clear why you oppose the proposals proposed by the opposition and which justify the definition of an international health organisation. This, I think, is necessary, because otherwise we can't talk any further and basically each law begins with a definition. And your definition, which you justify, that the provision contains the definition of medicine, that medicine is an activity carried out by healers and so on, and that is the point - because the medical system and medical methods are not scientifically proven, is meaningful "blah, blah" and so on. Your definition says: OK, if some people already want to have this medicine, let's just have it, but there will be no more important effect, because it also comes out clearly of the law. Why is this clear from the law? Because you're saying that the only cost of this law is going to be three people working at the Medical Chamber. By eventually agreeing to this law, what is in Germany, Norway and elsewhere where it becomes a part - gentlemen register, they carry out their activities for this reason people can also pay for it properly, you do not anticipate this here. That's why, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the definition is the first step. And since the World Health Organization is not the European Union, because it is not on this subject of the directive, you are not prepared to get a little deeper into the proposals, not so much the opposition as those involved. Mr. Minister, you need to have 24 degrees at the Oncology Institute. [[..]] [[The voice from the bench.]] Until then, it is only right that the media are after you, even though the Prime Minister is defending you. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister with co-worker and co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'll try to stick to the contents of the medical bill. I feel that it is not necessary to define a medical activity differently, that the definition of medicine in Article 2 of the amended proposal of the Health Care Act is good, but I am pleased that in Slovenia many people have engaged in the proposal of this law, which shows, for the first time, that it is an extremely sensitive content; and for the second time, I am truly pleased that we can draw different opinions in the long discussions on the working body and that we will also today in these four hours, as far as we are available, draw different opinions. I respect the engagement of opposition Members who have really tabled many amendments to the bill. My understanding is that it is actually two different concepts of law and we have decided to support the coalition concept of law. Since there has been a lot of debate so far about the term "health" and some negative connotation has been attributed to it, I would like to say the following, quite simply. Dear Members and Members, I think that each Member must also have a dictionary of the Slovenian book language on his bookcase. This is an integral part of the Bible of the Slovenian language and I respect what the Bible says. The dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language says that "medication is the treatment of patients and the protection of health." What's wrong? What is wrong with this term, and then what is wrong with the Medical Law? I just can't find the answers to these questions. I will not discuss this and criticize the past, why it is only after 16 years that Slovenia is receiving this law. I'm not going to speculate on what lobbying and what lobbying might have encouraged us to receive this marriage today. It seems important and very good to us in Nova Slovenija that in the future the area of medicine is finally governed by a special law on medicine, whose main objective is the final legal regulation of the situation in this area, especially the protection of health and the protection of the lives of people against some self-declared charlatans and lubricants, who do not have even the most essential basic medical knowledge, some, of course, to carry out medical activities and whose primary objective is indeed profit. Above all, in Novi Slovenija, it seems important that the country makes it possible for healers to have a legal basis for work and to legally protect the users of these services. The law must ensure that the treatment activity is not left to the market in the future and that the physicians are not left to themselves in their operations. Among other things, professional supervision of the functioning of physicians is necessary to eliminate the unprofessionalness of individual physicians and to avoid liability under the law. Among other things, physicians need to ensure that they obtain a publicly recognised charter. In Novi Slovenija we also welcome the bill because of the legal provision, which states that if a doctor suspects worse signs of disease or worse deterioration of chronic disease, the user must immediately offer medical treatment to the user. However, this is an additional pressure on the physician to not deter users from medical treatment but to encourage them to do so. We believe that this proposal is very important because, in the current practice, there has been a large proportion of irregularities in this area. In Slovenia, it must never happen again in the future that people's charlatans and lubricators make their health worse, or even because of the incompetence of the healer, people will lose their lives, which we have already witnessed in the past. Hence, marriage must primarily protect human life. That is why in Novi Slovenija we will also support the draft law on medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Homan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Minister, distinguished viewers, viewers at home in front of television, respected colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a law on medicine, which, as we have already said, could not have come to our desks for 16 years in order to accept it. I know that even 16 years ago there were different healers, we can now say doctors, whatever you call them, from Domančičev to Papuk, to Ogorelci, to the late Dr. Hrybernik, and we can also list who had to work in very different times and to hide, in their own words, that they could even do their work. The company has progressed, and they too have been able to develop faster and also pressure the Ministry, on us, the interested public, on everything that this matter of medicine is somehow being handled. Now that we've got a marriage on the table, now we're bombing it all over the place, what's not good, what could be good. I think that the law clearly states who can do what they can do, have the opportunity to meet in the Chamber, to organise themselves, to improve the matter and, on some basis, to analyse what is good, what is bad, to make a request for a correction of the law. I think there's a whole problem here. Now, what are they going to be called, whether they're healers or doctors; I believe that's a great healer. [[in pomegranates]] does not work with medicines, but is treated with tea, cured with a healthy diet, treated in its own way, which is successful; and it is difficult to say that it is a doctor. I think he's healthy, and that's why the basic law is a healer. However, we have several methods: homeopath uses drugs, others use tea, others use sport, movement, healthy diet. In short, the branches here are inexcusable. We have all the criteria we want! And what we're going to call it now is the least important thing. It is important that people are satisfied that we have some control, that we have some control, and that the activity can develop. I'm sure in 10, 15 years there'll be new branches again - and what are they going to call them? When the congregations are organized, if they have an interest, if they put the right people in the right place there, they will be able to change the law, correct it by loving will. But we do have some groundwork, and I suggest we support it today, but time will bring its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you. Is there still interest in the debate? Yeah. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 2 and both amendments to this Article. Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Just one brief comment when I listen to this debate. So here in the amendment it is proposed to include activities such as traditional and then complementary and alternative medicine as well. I would like to point out that, as far as I know and know, alternative medicine is also part of homeopathy, and I am sure and sure that only doctors in Austria can do it, and doctors in Austria cannot do it. I say this because I listened to some comparisons and statements earlier, saying that we are more papal than the pope in Slovenia. So if you want to talk about these things this way, then you should do this comparison and actually look at it. Otherwise, I agree with those who say that this is some first law in this area, that it is necessary to adopt the law, that it is what it is, but the time will show whether it is enough in this law or whether there will be something else to add. However, I do not agree with the debates presented here by my colleague, obviously he is overheated by these July temperatures and then in fact confuses everything that comes to his mind. And if this is how we deal with debates under some laws, then it really does not seem real and the position of the other does not remain as if such and similar amendments of the opposition reject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u36	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me call you the so-called official representative of official medicine. I find this debate somewhat surprising, for after so long we have finally come up with some proposal for a law, some regulation. He's good, but he's not as good as he is with all this stuff; but we got him. If I were to define, I would say, the work of official medicine and by the time I arrived in Parliament I also did this very specifically, especially in the field of so-called oncology surgery, every day, I also met with doctors, countless healers. I was very happy when they helped me with my treatment and strengthened the psychophysical strength of a patient who had undergone, say, surgery. But I was very disappointed when I saw that they were exploiting the fact that there was no law and that they had completely free hands, both financially and in their own, [[in pomegranates]] "medical glances" and doing great stupid things. There were people among them, and I'll tell you again who helped people after such acts. But I've seen a lot of tragic fates where family barely raised money for pure fraud and charlatanism. This has to be done. I know exactly what are those complementary methods that can help medicine, a lot of them, and I think they're also defined in here. Whether we say medicine or say something different; see, medicine is a beautiful Slovenian term and it covers everything that could be in here, and it is essential if it is arranged. If that's settled. If I have to spend months and months watching on the sea television broadcasts about so-called cures, how the body cooling treats all diseases, then I find that something is wrong in our country, that everyone can tell what they want and mislead the population. If I had to look in the infirmary at a box of gallstones, big as a cherry, how they got eliminated after a certain treatment, for which a lot to pay was needed, I could only say how this could happen in our country. Anyone who has any idea of anatomy knows that this is not possible and that after drinking some oil, mud has become thickened into berries. And all this went without, past all the suggestions, past the official medicine she was trying to do -- and again, I'm saying, we have good medicine in Slovenia, good, professional medicine. I also say once again my opinion: - I am also complementary when it helps when it is what we expect it to be, but order is needed here. In our parliamentary group, where I often say that 50% of the doctors are doctors, we also discussed this and I think that this is the first law that has made at least a little order in this regard. There is still a lot of confusion and it will have to be addressed, but, look, let's not stop talking about traditional medicine, alternative medicine or medicine. I think we've chosen a nice term, medicine, but the point is, what's going to be the content? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! If I recall the general debate that was held in May and, in some ways, the general support given in the National Assembly to the difficult-to-see medical law, I am surprised today by the debate when some of you find some things. I think that it has been said in general today so much that medicine and official medicine in Slovenia are essential. We all know that if we are to discover that this area of medicine has not been arranged by any chance, that certain abuses, exploitations and so on have occurred, people have simply sat down naively and so on. But I think that this law is very good in terms of content, I say, according to the content. To speak now, whether medicine is an appropriate or inappropriate term, seems so irrelevant in this case. Last but not least, if it ever gets that far in the future, it'll just get better. However, this area needs to be regulated, developed, monitored and given to people a regulated area or one or the other. Thank God, whoever decides on this alternative or medicine, if he helps him, is so much better. Official medicine is official medicine. Maybe it bothers someone more, the separation of one story and another. That this is separate, I agree, and it's right that it's separate, it's official, medicine is medicine. And the very word, I don't know what's so wrong with that word that it bothers you. I'm primarily interested in content. And the content, I'm sure, and I think you admit it, too, colleagues, that it's good, that it's positive, that we absolutely need it yesterday, not today. And I believe that this second article, which wishes to correct and modify a definition of medicine, is totally unnecessary. It is true that sometimes I am a bit disturbed, as my colleague Barovic said before, but this is a general matter - 16 years of democracy in Slovenia is obviously too small. I agree, however, that sometimes some proposal from the opposition is good, because it does not matter to me who proposes what. What matters is what he proposes, and that is, unfortunately, the problem of this National Assembly. I guess sometimes it's a lot more disturbing who's proposing and not what he's proposing. And sometimes even some good proposal from the opposition would try to adopt even better legislation for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But this is a tradition that drags on and will obviously drag on for a few more years in the future before we realize that perhaps sometimes even the opposition how to admit things, even though in this case I do not give it the right to correct some good Slovenian word - I speak very generally. And when we get through this, we'll certainly be the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! First of all, I would like to say that the position of the LDS Club in dealing with this law is clear all the time. It is impossible to estimate that there was general support in the National Assembly at first reading, for if you speak of this general support only in the coalition, then that is true. However, if you have not listened to the arguments and comments put forward by the LDS Club and by other parliamentary groups in the first reading, then there is no way to conclude that we did not draw attention to the weaknesses of this law at that time and that this law did not have any general support before the proceedings were resumed in the second reading and that there is no way that we could agree to the fact that the arguments for amending the text of this law were given only after the first reading. Let yourself take a look, colleagues and colleagues, magnetograms and you will see the substantive comments in the first reading, in this room here, was extremely, extremely large. And it was also the debate of the opposition Members: let us then, if we move forward, improve the text in the second reading. We note that in the second reading, the text has not improved as we would like. I have no problem understanding my colleague's efforts to regulate this area. I also understand that this area is not easy to settle. It's not easy. That is why it is all the more important to try to find the best possible solutions. And that, of course, there will be both coalition and opposition together to find the best possible solution, which on one side will have the basis, and this is the user of services. The service user needs to be placed at the centre and service users need to be provided with the optimum possible provision of a service in order to have better conditions for those being treated or in order to have better health. So this has to be the center of gravity. We are, of course, warning that this is not the case, and we have definitely put in place an alternative to the text of the law, as proposed by the Government. But not to reduce the safety of the user of services, not to avoid regulating this area; but, here it was said that, of course, the coalition supports the government proposal. But the question here is whether this government proposal follows global guidelines. We have listed a number of arguments that this is not the case. The recommendations of the World Health Organisation do not count, the recommendations of the European Union institution do not consider that, of course, the maximum behaviour of one and the other should be combined: so-called official medicine, as well as complementary and traditional and alternative medicine. And, of course, we're trying to do it with our suggestions. And where's the key? The key is that, of course, we do not want to write in the text of the law, that in the field of medicine the term "medicine" or "activity" can also be tolerated. And this law is a step backwards, this law is a step backwards if we read the Health Act already adopted, which defines Articles 58, 59 and 60 of this concept. Only paragraph 58 reads and can be found that the content is the following: "medical workers should only use proven and professionally reliable complementary traditional and alternative forms of diagnosis, diagnostics of treatment and rehabilitation". So we have already written this down in this law, and now that we are specializing in this area, we are going back a step and do not want to use these terms! We don't want to use terms and it's not just a definition as such. I agree. What is content is more important. But we have defined the content through Article 1 that we cannot comment on today because it is closed. We have tried through Article 1 already to define the definition, to be completed in Article 2, but Article 1 is closed. And here is now in second reading, according to procedure, a problem, because we can amend those articles that have already been amended on the parent's working body. Here it was said that in marriage it is clear who does what and what does what. I'm saying it's not clear. I'm saying it's not clear. And we'll get to these articles. If this were to be clear in this law, then why are we in charge of the minister, so that he will have to determine by means of sub-laws only who does what and how he does it. And this is introduced into the law by the amendment - to our comments which went in this direction, that the proposer is trying to impose everything on the chamber, because he himself did not want this work, is unable or does not know for what reason to take responsibility for it. I, for example, ask myself, is the user of this service whether supervision in the medical room is the right way to solve this control, but if we don't know who will be in there at all. And within three months, the minister will have to define who will design this cure. And then I will prove, in the debate that the law here is unconstitutional, because some things will not be possible to drive at all. It won't, because all hands are set for three months and that's actually impossible. It's impossible when we define, say, hands in which something has to be done. Make an order. I don't think there's any here or from the coalition or from the opposition or from the government, which isn't for this idea: to make order to ensure security and to prevent any abuse. I can agree with Comrade Sok correctly. Yeah, that's the point we're talking about, upgrading the knowledge of medicine, official medicine with additional knowledge. But I would remember here, that's not going to be possible, because the proposal for a medical service law explicitly says that it won't be possible. Article 4 - the duties of a doctor. Your doctor must not carry out any medical activity, point 5. Article 85, second paragraph - condition for entering the register not to carry out medicinal activities. Article 94 - delete from the register, second paragraph: if it is found to be carrying out a medical activity. Article 107 - Temporary withdrawal of a licence, point E: where a specialist, dentist or dentist performs a medical activity. Well, that's not possible! Then I would really like you in the coalition to agree on what you imagine under this medicine and medical activity. And that's it, that's the content. And I say that the law does not answer this dilemma clearly. I admit that it is a problem to regulate this area and it is no coincidence that a few years ago it has not been possible to make order with the legal text, but we are now in the stage when we can improve this text. And consider that the opposition's proposals do not go in this direction of opposition to the Government 'a priori' but go in the direction of supplementing this law, which would better regulate this area. And colleagues and colleagues, I wonder if the Chamber is really a way to regulate this area by continuing to provide it with quality control from the recording in order to meet the protection of the one who will use this service. We propose a different way of saying that this responsibility should be assumed by the Ministry, despite the arguments made by the Minister that the role of the Ministry is, of course, different. But we are assessing according to the palette what is also happening, just to prevent charlatanism, to prevent abuse, not to give to an undefined field of the chamber, which you also advocate for mandatory membership, and we do not know what will come in to take on these key tasks, at least not in the first phase. And if it is necessary to upgrade the law in the sense that the safety of the beneficiary of these services is ensured, then I feel responsible from the National Assembly to do everything possible here. And when we weighed in the opposition, or where this chamber, which we don't even know who will be members of, or whether this is the ministry that has to regulate this field, we decided it was more right for the Ministry to take over. And of course you will take responsibility for all these words you are saying here today that this area will be arranged so that this area will not be regulated despite the law. And Mr Koman told the committee very well, but this law is the maximum possible in terms of what the Medical Chamber has allowed. Has he been convicted, or has he been convicted, or has he given information that he should not have told? But if this is essential, then this must also be made clear by the proposers. Yeah, sharp limit, sharp break. We are talking about the need to pool all knowledge today so that the patient, someone seeking health care, can get it as much as possible. And this amendment is only going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to argue with the two issues that are here today during this debate, namely Article 2, but in fact Article 2, which is very important, at least I think that Articles 2 and 4 are the most important now that the first is not open. I also think that in many ways we are talking about the 4th, where there are also forms of treatment in this area, that of course we want to make an impression on two things. At first, my colleague Janc said general support. The general support was that this should be regulated by law. However, general support for the substantive foundations of this law has never been given in this room, and I am sorry, Mr Janc, that I and some other colleagues of the four opposition parties, who are unitedly opposed to the substantive foundations of this law, have not been understood in this respect. General support is given to the need for law. And, of course, the thesis that it's better than nothing doesn't seem good enough to me. In particular, in the context of this little thing that we will get, what Slovenian doctors, part of Slovenian doctors, once again I stress some of the Slovenian doctors who are very conservative, inquisitional, allows the ministry to say that I will get into law. And in this sense, of course, I now deny this support. At least on behalf of the unaffiliated Members' Group of Members of Parliament, Zares. We are never the substantive foundations, and we have also voted against in the first reading. And the second thesis, a lot of it, involved healers. I have to say here that, of course, this thesis doesn't work either. They were included, there were 13 versions and versions of the law. However, the final option is inconsistent with the representatives of complementary alternative medicine and the non-governmental sphere. That's what they wrote and warned. Unfortunately, at the end of the public hearing. This was last November in a number of articles. I have them here, which they are talking about, although they were involved in the debate, they had the opportunity to speak, but of course, at the end of the law was written by someone else, and that is what they also referred to the Ministry for final consideration. And, of course, to some of the most controversial articles that I will say in a way farthest from the interest of complementary and alternative medicine, they did not even have the opportunity to see and talk about them at that time. And since you said earlier that you would still be willing to listen to the arguments and that you will listen, regardless of who makes these proposals, to such arguments, I will take time because I have something else to read to you, just two or three summaries of the European positions adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament on this issue. First, it says that it is necessary and possible that they exist side by side and that they complement each other. That's not what our marriage is about. They don't complement each other here. That's where you're shutting down. Secondly, it says in a European Parliament Resolution: "It begins with the process of formal recognition of non-conventional forms of medicine, based on research to guide them to these needs, as well as the development of research programmes on the safety and effectiveness of these forms of treatment." In short, tell me where is it in this law that we will in fact support, promote research activities in the field of complementary and alternative medicine in Slovenia, and also officially acknowledge this? We're still a strong, strong defender. In this sense, what we are saying today is not what we are doing. There is no such thing in marriage, or we read it very differently. Old wisdom says, "It's all in the head." We've got cool heads here today because we have air conditioning. It is therefore surprising that, even under such favorable conditions, some ingrained prejudices and uncritical naivety still rule in the heads of some. It's some of it, but I think it's more of a prejudice. In the interests of health and our patients, it would be good to reduce these barriers and to mitigate contradictions and, on the one hand, to use medical criticality and verifiability in the field of science, which could contribute greatly, and on the other hand, to apply a new paradigm of complementary and alternative medicine that speaks of a single system that includes both the physical, mental and spiritual aspects of man. Unfortunately, Slovenian traditional medicine in that conservative work is largely underly concerned with the spiritual pay of the person. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Janc, you have a chance of replicating. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Unfortunately, we're a little apart here, Mrs Orzmova, when we're talking about official medicine and medicine or alternative medicine. I can't imagine you're going to be an official medical doctor in the morning, and you're going to switch boards this afternoon, and you're going to be in alternative medicine. It just doesn't work out. One or the other. You can't be that in the same person. Morning somewhere else, afternoon somewhere else. Official medicine is one thing, but it's another. Citizens, however, should decide whether to go to one or the other or both if necessary. That's the difference between us. We're not on the same page, and we just have our own eyes on each other. Who is more right or less right should be judged by the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you. Is there any other interest after the debate on Article 2? Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Of course, a few things that need to be answered in this regard, I hope that in the final part of the debate on Article 2, however. Indeed, in this 2nd article, when we speak only of the title in fact, we have also discussed a number of other things, and from the Oncology Institute to perhaps actually the things that concern this 2nd article indirectly. But the climate was mentioned. And that kind of thing, but well, that's all possible, but it has no connection with the law itself. I must say that what Mr Germič said when he read something from the draft Medical Service Act is, of course, a draft law that is in the debate and that we will probably talk a lot about. It is true, however, that it leads in some way to what other legislation now foresees. Therefore, in this law that we are talking about today, in fact, we are not at all as I said in the introduction to this problem, these dilemmas of medical treatment have not been highlighted professionally by doctors at all. As regards the management of medical activities in the future with regard to this law, I can say that we have actually put this technical part and also most of the substantive work within the Medical Chamber, which is, of course, right. At the same time, however, we are trying to ensure that health care is also controlled over this work, so that it does not go primarily to the area we least want, to the area of acquisition in the bad sense where, until now, someone can, on the basis of no evidence, without any control of this business. I think that's the basic purpose of this law. Of course, now, if we or me personally or the group that's been preparing this, somehow you want to make it clear that we don't want to cooperate as doctors with the healers, of course you can't resist it. The law itself foresees this cooperation very precisely in the future. He wants it, too. I have to say one example. Maybe from practice, because you know I worked as a doctor for 35 years. I've often encountered these problems, problems of cooperation with healers. And I have to say, with a lot of them, I found a common language in the treatment of a particular patient, both in the past when there was no marriage and even if I continued to do this business myself. And there's gonna be a lot of doctors. However, I am absolutely against the fact that doctors are working on official medicine in the morning, and in the afternoon they have replaced as Mr Janc tablo has said and are engaged in some kind of medicine, some business which, of course, does not have official recognition and scientific activity. Many doctors have also used a method in their work. However, I agree with Mrs Orzmovo, at this point, that doctors or even healthcare professionals do not have enough time or opportunity or will sometimes deal with the patient in the way patients want it. It's probably nowhere in the world. But it's a lot better, a lot worse than us. However, there is no contact that a patient would like with a doctor or with a healthcare professional. And that's what they get from healers. This conversation, this conversation, and here you can't deny it. At this point, we agree. But I think that too much time has been spent on my assessment of this 2nd article, where we are talking only about the title, but it is possible that in the second part of this debate today, we will touch on some things that are also of a more substantive nature, although now, as I have said in the introduction, we will also discuss the content of another species, not only the title, because I think it is more correct. What's called medicine is a real name. I'm sure. This is a Slovenian address for all what you could call anything else with other names. Alternative medicine is not a Slovenian term. It's not complementary, but it's a cure. Health care is a beautiful Slovenian term for the activity that is taking place here. Indeed, in three months we will somehow have to draw up at least three sub-legislative acts under this bill from the definition of medical systems and medical methods, etc. Here I would like to say just one thing: homeopathy, homeopathic medicine has been tried all the time in this preparation of the law as something special by doctors and also by doctors. And in fact, it is, in its essence. There was also a time to talk about a special homeopathic chamber, which was supposed to be separate from this chamber, which the healers have, but then we decided on the way in which it is proposed here. There's still a possibility of a conclusion to something about non-single healers. I don't think Mrs Orzmova is here anymore, or as far as the healers' objections to this law are concerned. That's not true. This law is prepared with numerous consultations, with various healers, with different groups of healers who have never been united. Even the diametrical opposites were in their own way, in their own desires, demands. So there is also some compromise on their view of this activity on medicine. If we wanted to satisfy everyone, then this law would never be because they are so diametrically opposed to opinions. We've been trying to find some consensus in these negotiations. It is clear, however, that in a situation in which the medicine in Slovenia has been completely unregulated and uncontrollable, many want to preserve the situation as it is for their own benefit, not for the benefit of users, to which we tend to propose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you. Can we go to Article 4 or can we stay at Article 2? Is it still an interest? Yeah, we're staying at Article 2. Check-in is on. Mr. Grill, please! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thanks again for saying that. I would continue this part of the debate where a colleague of Germič has already ordered certain matters to be brought closer to users when he has identified or stated that medicinal activities or all of these services should be made as accessible to them as possible. Above all, official medicine and these services are complemented. I fully support this conclusion, and I also agree with it. However, I would like to point out here that it is this very law and I am sure that he knows that, too, makes it possible to do so in its entirety. As I have already mentioned, there is nowhere in this law even the smallest provision or any article that would object to it. The basic thing that this law pursues is that it settles this area because it has been unregulated so far. And what seems most important to us is that it protects users. Earlier, a colleague of Klavor, who gave a number of findings from his previous work, made it quite clear that there were also many tragic cases of abuse, including probably a number of economic abuses by individuals, families who were willing in good faith to give the last tolar or euro to the charlatans or those who were exploiting their plight. The next thing I have mentioned is that this law contributes significantly to the protection of healers, not just in the legal sense. But also when it allows the Medical Chamber to provide professional protection and, more recently, legal protection and control of this area and prevent any abuse. Here I would like to continue the consideration of how the Medical Chamber should be this institution, or this body, which would regulate this area. It is stated that this should be the Ministry. I don't share that opinion myself. The Ministry cannot now, within its existing powers, introduce an agency or body that would cover this area in such an in-depth sense. But who can be a more professional body than the Medical Chamber, which will bring together virtually all those people who know the most or who will be the most educated in this area? It is right, and this law allows the Medical Chamber under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, where, on the basis of these powers, the Ministry of Health will also supervise the work of the Chamber, whether it has done the work as well as must. So here's the real solution. And just to be clear, this law has not been harmonised or coordinated. That's not true. The minister had already stated that he had a number of consultations, meetings with various stakeholders, with a number of healers. I can also confirm this as a Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we have had a number of groups of individuals, unions that are engaged or are part of this future system. We had meetings, we listened to their arguments. And we can see for ourselves that there were differences of opinion. And here to reconcile something 10, a few 100 different views is impossible. And this bill was also coordinated in the coalition. And here too we have tried all the good solutions, all the good suggestions we have put in. Finally, this is evidenced by the fact that around 20 or even more amendments have been adopted after the general discussion on the home labour body, which have significantly improved certain matters. Further on, when we discuss other articles, we will also discuss some things in more detail in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Root!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u50	A nice greeting to all present in this hall! When I listened to the discussion, especially Mrs. Flowers Zalokar Orazam, I must say that I was a little depressed when I asked myself, "Yes, what kind of law do we adopt today when we talk about backwardness, conservativeism, the inquisitional attitude towards alternative medicine and so on?" And she kept saying that over and over and over again. But I don't think that's the case at all. We have very good and professional medicine in Slovenia and thank God we have such medicine. I think we can set a pattern in this area for many people in the world. Although I do not mean to say that there are still many things that need to be done in official medicine, but I am not thinking about professionalism here, but more about technical matters such as climates and other things that we really need to handle. And if after 16 years we get one law that will protect patients and also provide a legal basis for the work of alternative medicine or healers - I also think that this term is very appropriate and that is precisely the case. I think we could all just be happy because things are going to work out here. I think we have a lot of good healers in Slovenia - as I said before - for classical medicine. I'm sure we have very good healers, too. And I see success as far as people are concerned or patients are concerned, only how these two activities complement each other or complement each other. In his own experience, the Minister himself and Mr Klavora presented this very well. I see no reason for this cooperation under this adopted law to be worse. I'm sure it'll just get better. When there was a talk about what kind of law we were adopting, why there would be a need to adopt other acts of law. I'm surprised that we're about to adopt a law today that doesn't require sub-laws. All laws also carry out individual acts of law, and I don't know why that would be wrong today. And as for the Chamber of Physicians, I am sure that if these matters were to be handled by the Chamber, if the Ministry were to regulate them, it would certainly be here today to hear how the Ministry is taking on certain powers, how it would not allow the professions to decide their own matters. Surely we would hear how we do not listen to the professional public and so on. But I would like to conclude with the thought, again Mrs. Cvete Zalokar Orazem, when she spoke of the spiritual reward of man. Yeah, well, that's a very, very important thing to health. A lot of the disease is due - I'll say - to mental illness. And perhaps we can no longer invest in amendments, but many of these diseases can only be solved by a priest in a personal conversation with a patient, and perhaps even by priests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, the replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be brief, but I won't speak my words, but the words of others who might be smarter than me. Edward Loomis, who was the founder of the first Holistic Center in the United States, said that there are no incurable diseases, are just incurable minds. It is also very interesting to hear what the President of the Slovenian Medical Chamber has said in recent days, Dr. Pegan, who said that doctors do not consider themselves gods, even though some individual does act that way. In general, we know that we are not almighty, even though patients sometimes require impossible things from us. Medicine has progressed a lot in recent decades. However, we are far from being able to cure any disease, and patients are sometimes disappointed when they realize that we can no longer help them. This is also the cause of conflict. In short, in this sense, I think that, just when medicine is in such a state of need, the cooperation we are talking about today could contribute a lot to this between traditional and complementary medicine in the incurable mind segment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Germich!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I have not decided to comment on some of the comments, because there will be an opportunity for this in the following articles, where I will be able to argue, so I have commented on the implementation of the coalition Members that they are not right at some points. I would just like to touch upon these thoughts, Mr Minister, which you have stated, that the Medical Service Act is a draft and that there are some solutions that are a matter of public debate. But the experience we have throughout the work of the whole government that this public debate is somehow ongoing, but decisions are taken then past proposals made by the social partners or partners interested in some legal solutions, and then the proposer forgets. And that's what happened here. Many of the comments that have been made by doctors or all those who carry out these activities within this law would have made comments, but they could not have been entered into the law, since you did not do so as a proposaler. And so if we are talking about the fact that the solutions in the Medical Service Act do not constitute a sharp distinction between what this law says, then accept these amendments that we are proposing, because these amendments in this law are actually going to somehow direct the solutions in the Medical Services Act so that they are not so harsh. If this will exists, then take this step of goodwill to accept these amendments that we propose. So that the solutions in the Medical Services Act would not treat all those who will deal with medicine so exclusively, but they will have for me as a user it is very important that everyone who uses an alternative complementary method has a basic education - say - of a medical faculty. Who doesn't want that? Because in this case, two important articles become compatible. Two important articles you're writing down. Because I don't know if we're splitting up this one and the other story, how Article 15 will be realized in life, and how Article 16 will be realized in life. Article 15 says that the physician should be prescribed a referral to medical treatment to determine this. I wonder how? And article 16, which puts the doctor in the role of giving opinions on medicines. If there is no rapprochement here, paragraphs 15 and 16 will be exclusive. And here we point to these shortcomings. Therefore, if we really want to have the Health Service Act as a draft that does not prejudge anything, then let us make this law a shortcut so that these sharp boundaries are not talked about always being differences, but we are talking about that they cannot completely exclude each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you. I may have a short answer to two things. As far as our agreement on the preparation and adoption of laws and the adoption of different opinions is concerned, I must say that we have proved a great deal of understanding for others, different opinions at that time. Let's just look at the proposal of the Health Care Act, health insurance, which is now somehow in the final phase under point L. There we have reached 100% consensus actually with the social partners, both workers and employers. And I think it somehow denies what you said in the first place that we didn't agree on, but that we don't deal with those who think otherwise of some kind of problem, as we think, because there have been a lot of results from this deal that has really lasted a long time, but in every way led to some acceptable solution in my mind. The second thing is, this law, in fact, the convergence between official medicine and medicine. There's nothing that limits rapprochement. I must say, this cooperation is important. However, at no point can it be harmful to the user. I'm not gonna say this about the patient, but at least it can't be to the detriment of the patient. In my work, I've told you many times I've met healers. I have to say that only the patients who came from me from my examination went to the doctor, and they also told me that, and I never mind if that patient went there. But the second time he came into control, I treated him the same way the first time I didn't know he was going to a doctor. What I asked him to do was just use the methods of official medicine that I prescribe to him. But here I was very strict, like all those doctors, the vast majority of doctors who recognize medicine as one way to improve, especially the mental state of individuals, to improve the psychological condition of any disease, to make use of this matter. Articles 15 and 16 are in fact not excluded. These two do not exclude the possibility of rapprochement or participation in that part, with official medicine and medicine, in the part that I have just described. But it is excluded in this law. Not even in this law, but in other laws the possibility of professional involvement of doctors or other healthcare professionals with medicine while working in the field of official medicine. But here, not this law again, not this law, but this other law somehow makes it impossible now. Also, the proposal, the draft law on medical care, speaks in this direction. At some points, however, it will probably need to be talked about by the Medical Service Act at these points even those spikes that are sticking out will have to be cut. But there are still those options in every way. However, this law does not talk about it at all and even speaks against it, the link between official medicine and medicine in the future in this sense of professional cooperation. As in any way, the way is good for this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you Does anyone else want to discuss Article 2 and the amendments to Article 2? No, then I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 4 and the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties and the substantively equal amendment of the LDS, NP and SD groups. I am opening an application for discussion on this Article 4 and both amendments. Mr. Germich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Article 4 is one of the articles which is complemented by the debate. In fact, the motioner for amendment of this Article responds to the opposition's comments. In fact, it is aware that, of course, the transfer of responsibility to the Chamber is not that simple. We have already adopted an amendment on the Committee, which states that a more detailed definition of medical systems and medical methods is prescribed by the Minister. I think this is an important step forward. Of course, at the same time, it is concerned that the Minister does not actually have clear answers at this time, which are medical methods and which are medical systems. There is no answer at this time. I am even more concerned about the fact that this answer was not even when the law was in preparation and not when the law was harmonised if I say so. So it appears that he was not coordinated and, of course, then intervened in the National Assembly. Therefore, the question is also raised, given that this article is crucial: Why is it not acceptable to make a proposal submitted by opposition parties to explicitly indicate what these medical systems are and what are these medical methods? The present Article 4 is, of course, getting closer to it. In our view, of course, it is necessary to explicitly write down which are therefore in the law, which are medical systems and medical methods, in all awareness, of course, that this problem may be in the light of new knowledge and the need to amend the law. But at this point in time, when we are setting up a regulation of this area, which we consider to be very varied, it is, of course, necessary to write this down in law. So, of course, the question to me is: Why and what more will be clear in three months? Of course I hope it will. But this supplement in this Article actually makes the law unfulfilled. The implementation of this law makes it unreal. Why? Since we don't know the medical systems at this point, we don't know the medical methods. It takes three months to define them in more detail. So, we're going to take three months to define them in more detail, this is what the ministry has to do. When we have this after three months, let's see Article 5, this is now very important because it is very connected. We are saying that the procedure for recording the recognition of supervision is set by the Minister within three months, but these two operations are not parallel, but parallel. How can we determine the recording process if we do not know what to record? This will be set out in Article 4, where we are saying that we will define medical systems in more detail. Because we can't record it if we don't even know what medical systems are. Are we going to allow this area to be recorded by someone who thinks he has to register, or are we going to let someone not register because he thinks he doesn't have to register? The third condition to be met within three months is that, after the law has been in force, we will establish the Medical Chamber, which is a follow-up event. Because first we need to define the medical system within three months. Once we have this defined, we need to carry out the registration and recognition process within the same three months. And within three months, we would also set up a medical chamber, and in the same three months, we will actually have to do three operations, which I think are logical only in order. And I would therefore ask you, Mr Minister, to really explain to us, to explain to everyone who will be concerned with this law if we are to make order in this area, how we will withdraw these operations at the same time. So you're going to have to define systems that you don't know about today, you don't have a clear answer today. Because what we're proposing with the amendment, you're rejecting because you're saying it's too narrow, it's not everything. But at the same time, you don't tell me what's supposed to be. And then, of course, within the same period of three months, you guarantee that you will make a recording, recognition and that you will establish a medical room. At this point, of course, the law is becoming completely unrealistic in my opinion. I would very much like to hear the arguments on how you will reconcile all these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Barovich!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you, President. Colleagues, colleagues! Mr Minister, we have tabled an amendment to Article 4 in the Slovenian National Party. The logical consequence of the amendment's presentation is why there will be no misunderstandings. Because we want the purpose of this law to be achieved. This is the establishment of transparency, control and order in this area. The amendment to Article 4 specifies the traditional, complementary and alternative forms so-called. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the medical system, the medical methods in Article 4, are not adequately defined. Why? Because they're ambiguous and vague. And why? Because, according to the Slovenian National Party, Article 4 is the most important Article of this Law, as it defines the purpose of this Act. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to Article 4 and to define it correctly and unequivocally as well as to propose it. We are concerned, we are confident that the implementation of the law will be complicated and, in our opinion, the establishment of the Medical Chamber will also be complicated, because we believe that none of the operators will know whether the method is medical or not. Once again, in our view, Article 4 of the Slovenian National Party is the core and essence of this law, which we also consider necessary and correct. Some systems and methods undoubtedly interfere with health care in this part. But the other one didn't. Giving up treatment systems and methods makes no sense. It is much more constructive to determine the systems and methods that heal. See, in the draft law in Article 4, the applicant named the following methods: methods of interaction between mind and body, biologically based methods, manipulative and physical methods and energy methods. And we think it's fair - we ask the question of how the user or the contractor or the contractor of the bill should understand what medical methods exist, which are permitted, for which registration is required, which requires a license, who is a doctor in Slovenia at all. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we propose that in Article 4, as defined in our amendment, all forms of treatment should be indicated so that there will be no misunderstandings after the adoption of the law. And above all, we're afraid of a legal void. We do not agree with the description of the medical methods contained in the existing Article 4 because we believe that this content is not understandable to both the average reader and the user as well as the operator. We also estimate that the description of the methods cannot be clearly and unequivocally understood, which are actually medical methods. Which are, are offered by the Slovenian National Party in the amendment to Article 4. Finally, why is a precise definition so important and necessary in addition to all the above? It's just so that the bad "healthy" accent, "charlatan" is eliminated. When we know very precisely, we offer this, which are alternative, traditional and complementary forms of treatment, then we will know who can, when can, how can and can be a substantive part of this law. Because we know clearly, ambiguity, of course, causes profiteers, fictional healers, and so on. Because in the method of interaction between the mind and the body you can forgive your expression, I also imagine that I know some of it because I did, I don't know how many rhetorical seminars I went to school where I studied a little psychology and so on. Of course, I can't do that and I can't do that. However, in view of the vague content, the vague definition of Article 4 is also possible. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party with the amendment offers a very concrete definition of alternative, traditional, complementary forms of treatment. At the same time, we also offer you assistance in relation to the last paragraph which has been adopted. However, a more detailed definition of medical systems is prescribed by the Minister or Minister. I think that such content, which is helpful to this law, which is very concrete, which is very clear and which specifies exactly who, when, where and how to do something, is not harmful to this law. And it probably makes it a lot easier for the Ministry to work and it refers to a previous interlocutor, where this sequence can be reduced or put into some possible parallel form of action. Therefore, once again, this amendment by the Slovenian National Party has helped many of the ambiguities that I have made known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. It's hard to add anything to the arguments my predecessors cited. Finally, the amendments tabled jointly by the LDS and the Non-aligned Members of the Zres and SD as well as the amendments of the Slovenian National Party are completely identical. He also cited and read in his explanation the explanation that we have written together in these three groups of Members. I welcome the fact that the Slovenian National Party has fully summarized our explanation and also the amendments. However, it is only right to draw attention to this. In short, the implementation of the law will create enormous difficulties in establishing a medical chamber due to the illogicalness presented by colleague Germić and to which we should receive accurate answers today. Because it's gonna be hard to establish if we don't know who the healers are. It surprises me that in three months, the Ministry of Health will obviously be so enlightened that it will be able to define the medical methods that we are offering here today on the platter. I think they are prepared in accordance with what we can best understand from the arrangements, legal arrangements in other countries. Maybe the Ministry will do something different here. But I think there's probably gonna be something like us that we want her to be married. For what is the Law of Medicine if there is no definition in the law, what is it? Finally, there are some problems that are evident in the fact that certain forms of health systems are already part of health care worldwide and are treated and can be carried out exclusively by doctors or medical graduates. These include acupuncture, chiropractics, homeopathy and osteopathy. In short, these are the ones in the world that are part of health care. Although we will forcefully force them now, obviously during the healing process, and we will also mix them with the possibility of who is implementing them. I personally have to say that I would be more pleased if certain forms were carried out, and at least four others were carried out exclusively by doctors. Only doctors. For, just as many then interfere with the very bad knowledge of this area, many problems may arise. And, of course, here, this article then reveals the complete confusion of this law and I will say - also the impossibility of putting into practice, which we are always alerting to.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you. Is it still an interest? I am reopening my application for a debate on Article 4 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Germich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point, I would just like to reply to Mr Koren, who previously stated that, of course, it is logical that the law cannot define everything and that there is a need to write down sub-laws. In principle, I can agree with such a statement. Of course, I cannot agree with the way in which a sub-law is now being introduced where there is no way of regulating this area. This is a key point, since in the original article 4 there is no spirit or hearing about the third paragraph which speaks of a more detailed definition of the medical systems, the medical methods being prescribed by the Minister. This awareness, aware of this problem, that of course this is the responsibility of the minister, was created only as a result of the opposition's comments and this speaks of, of course, that we were right when we said that the law by the proposer was not clear that he did not know what he was regulating. We were afraid and afraid we didn't know how to handle it. Despite the fact that the law will be open, the question is that we will not regulate what we want to settle with the law is still open. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Grill!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thanks again for saying that. I am, however, of the opinion, and probably also that colleague Germič can never, or very rarely, only one law entirely governs an area. For each thing, there are usually a number of laws, regulations, or anything else besides the law. And so will this law and this article. The amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups: SNS, LDS and all those who are co-signatories of this - although we can recognise this, they regulate or define these areas a little bit more, but we probably all agree that there are not only so many areas or methods here. It means that even if this amendment is accepted, it will still be too narrow in view of the situation in force in Slovenia and not least in the world. Therefore, such a diction of an article as it is now to define this matter by means of a sub-law, the Ministry is also fully pursuing this area. Above all, it allows for a simpler way to expand this area into the future. There will always be new methods. And it will be easier for the Minister to complement that submarital act than to adopt the law with each of these things. Here all these methods, which may be, the Minister shall in one day certainly draw up a sub-law which may then be in force. It means that absolutely nothing with the adoption of such an amendment can be improved. That is why this is unnecessary and why we do not want to support this amendment, because, as is now proposed, this matter will also be regulated. But here I would add only this dilemma, which was previously exposed, that certain methods should only be carried out by doctors. Here in this law it is quite clear that for three areas, it is chiropractic, homeopathy and osteopathy, that all those healers who will do so must also have a medical faculty performed, means that they will be trained in a way that there will be no danger that anything here could be misused or harmed for the benefit of the user. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you. And Mr. Squeakle. He failed to sign up. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I don't know why the computer doesn't work at our end. But now that the lights are on, I hope that soon it will be possible to report it normally. My debate on the amendment, of course, goes primarily against those who say that you do not agree with the legislative will to define the forms of treatment more clearly. We do not embark on the definition of medical systems and medical methods. I must say that this law, when someone looks so far away, reminds him of that discussion about the spirit and the body. It speaks of how you say that as a healing method you will define a method that strengthens the ability of the spirit to influence the functioning of the body. Now I don't know if we'd say we'd become some other company. But it goes and we only try to clearly state the methods or forms of treatment as recognized and as suggested by those who do. The problem that we see in the current text of the law, however, is in its explanation. The Minister says about this: traditional Chinese medicine systems, Indian medicine, homeopathy and other medicines are used. And then in explanation, it's very interesting. They say, well, we've listed three medical systems. However, the legal provision is open. Also for other systems that could be applied. This is purely legislative charlatanism, Mr. Minister. You can't give the "other medicine" indent and then allow the law to apply to other systems that could be implemented. The law is written and the law is supposed to be arranged precisely to make these forms of treatment clear and thus to protect people from any other forms of treatment that would, for example, have an economic interest. However, they should clearly not be enforced or prohibited. Therefore, it seems to me that, as proposed by the opposition parliamentary group, the dictatorship of the law is more appropriate, even as the SNS Group knows, is based on the good experience of those involved. And, of course, I hope you'll support that. Simply because hope dies last.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you. Is there any other interest? Yes, I think you're the only one, Mrs. Zalokar. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to see, by the conclusion of the examination of this point or to this evening, if possible, if possible sooner, the Legislative and Legal Service draw up an expert opinion and a position on whether it is appropriate that the law, which speaks and bears the title of the Health Act, methods and medical systems, is in fact only defined in a sub-legislative act. And secondly, whether the law is timely and nominally harmonised in view of the fact that a whole series of things are arranged within three months that do not connect or prevent each other. I'd like to ask you to take this position. Because these things have actually changed from the committee's stage of consideration to today. c It would be good if, in this sense, we could have a clearer position in the evening, whether these things are, as currently defined and recorded, appropriate or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you. I think that the Legislative and Legal Service will check that these concerns have been settled in their previous opinion, otherwise it will mediate the position by the end of the debate, as you wanted. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u72	I'd like to explain for a moment. Mr Germič has already said in his own implementation that it is difficult to determine, in listing these different methods within the medicine industry, the methods that will continue to emerge in the future and should, even if today we appoint all these methods, then the law should be amended in a relatively short time again due to the new methods that would arise. And there is a better method of this, better way than that, which we have decided today in this proposal to do so by means of a sub-legislative act, which is also somehow easier then to change depending on the situation. So I think there's a pretty good approach at this point. I don't think anything's gonna happen. These methods, which are listed here, are likely to be more or less taken into account in this sub-legislative act. I would say something else, however, that this proposal, which is before you, in particular the proposal of the medics, has been taken into account, in particular, the opinion of the physicians, when paragraphs 4 and 5 were proposed, and also on the basis of the debate on the Committee and the opposition and also on the position. In short, anything is possible. It's possible to name a whole series of these methods here, but we'll never name everyone and there'll always be a problem. As you know, changing the law by appointing one of the activities in the field of medicine is quite difficult. And the other thing is, it's time-consuming. There, I believe that one amendment provides for a chamber to be established within 12 months at the latest. I think I'm sorry. [[...]] That's right, because you suggested it. I admit that this amendment also solves the matter with regard to the deadline, and that this deadline is extended to 12 months, and that this amendment is accepted when we come to it and things are settled. So I don't think there's any special doctorates to do here. I think things can be arranged. That's why it's a committee, which is why it's a Parliament, and that's why it's here to agree on some things that are still unclear. One answer to that question of yours is the day.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the debate, or can we go to Article 5? I therefore conclude the debate on Article 4. We are moving on to Article 5 and two amendments, one proposed by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and the other proposed by the LDS, NP and SD. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Here, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. This is an article that will develop a debate on a chamber that is supposed to arise and, in fact, on the issue that we have always raised, why the Ministry of Health does not take over and assume a more responsible role in this area by actually regulating, controlling, licensing and so on, leading and prescribing compulsory learning content, knowledge and so on. In short, in our parliamentary group, as well as all those who have drafted these amendments together, we assess that the system as it is and as we can understand it in Germany, we will specifically state it, significantly better. In Germany, the state prescribes catheters. The basic content needs to be known, and the country itself is concerned that it is actually responsible for taking over and entering this area. The examinations shall also be conducted before the State Commission. We're supposed to leave these things to the Medical Chamber. In doing so, I must say that the part of the healers seen in this future chamber is also the part of the healers, who, at all times, at the time of your mention, are somehow different between the healers in the negotiations and in the coordination of this law, which also supported the ministry constantly. Of course, it's also big financial and profitable interests, if you have them. Obviously, the Ministry wants to completely avoid this responsibility in some way and to postpone the matter in terms of responsibility and supervision. Above all, I must say in monitoring that in our Group of Members, we are extremely sensitive to this Chamber, which will receive and exercise all these public powers. At this point, we'd be more conservative than you were at the Ministry. At this point, we'd like it not to be. It could also be an agency, it could be some kind of body within the Ministry. We would certainly have gained weight. Above all, we would have won at that point we're talking about most in this law. That's in control. It does not seem good to us that healers control themselves in some way, educate them, prescribe content that is required to obtain a license and so on. I must say that we lack some healthy conservativeism on the Ministry's side here, and we believe that this would be much, much better for a Slovenian patient. In this sense, we have always advocated these amendments, and we have also proposed them on the committee. Unfortunately, at this point, we weren't heard. And we believe that we are preparing bad terrain if we leave it exclusively to medicine as such. It's probably going to cause conflict within the healing circuits as well. We have already seen them among individual healers who are already seen there in one big business, in education, in licensing and so on. Others believe that this will be taken over by a narrow group of people, who will also draw on their power and financial resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Barovich!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u76	The fact is, fellow Members and colleagues, Mr Minister, that the Ministry of Health is responsible for public health, so in the Slovenian National Party with an amendment to Article 5, we propose that the Ministry take over registration, recognition and supervision. According to the Slovenian National Party, the Ministry of Health should take a more responsible role in the field of traditional medicine or complementary and alternative medicine, in particular from the point of view of public health. In our opinion, this responsibility cannot, you cannot and must not, in our opinion, transfer this responsibility to the Chamber of Medicine, because the fact is that they always protect the interests of their members, and the Ministry of Health is the one who has to take care of public health in terms of national, general, general interest. In the Slovenian National Party, we have found that the drafter of the law wants to be part of the economic activity of medicine if we put it in the Chamber. In this case, we assess if this happens, that such a law should be written by the Ministry of the Economy, not for health. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we propose to add the Ministry of Health to its own organisational structure - or a new department, a service, a sector that will take care of the public register, professional supervision, traditional complementary and alternative forms of treatment, and to monitor and verify the effectiveness of traditional medicine and complementary and alternative medicine. We are, of course, absolutely certain of our claim in the amendment to Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Conticy!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In this article, too, I can see that Members and Members of the opposition are quite united, including in the submission of amendments. The amendments are exactly the same. The amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which is now explained by colleague Barovic, is the same as the amendment tabled by all three opposition groups, namely the LDS, the Non-Aligned Members and the Social Democrats, and which did not receive support on the labour force. Although we have proposed amendments to the home work body that have taken part in the choral work or have intervened in the way that we have removed the chamber from the law or proposed that the medical chamber be removed from the law for a reason that has been explained and heard several times. We therefore estimate that the Ministry of the Interior could ensure such registration, i.e. the record, as well as control over the implementation of the records and also control the work of those who are registered. We find it very difficult to believe that the Medical Chamber will be able to protect the user in a very high quality way. The one who will use the services offered by the healers under this law. I am also of the opinion that the Ministry of Health is simply an institution or resource which must act in the public interest, which must primarily protect users and which must supervise operators. This is the Ministry's task, and this ministry should also do so in the future. In fact, this responsibility is avoided; it is transferred to the Medical Chamber. And that's all he does. Thus, the law lays down the public powers of the Medical Chamber in which members will certainly take care of their interests in the first place, the interests of the members of the Chamber. That's why the chamber is being set up. Who's gonna protect the users, and that's another story. And in this case, we particularly want to enable the work of operators, quality work, to prevent so-called charlatanism, and on this basis, the user gets a quality service, which is also supported by the Ministry of Health with its activities. And, of course, the likelihood that quality will be good for users will be as much as the Ministry will have more power in this area. And because we have not actually succeeded in dealing with this on the home working body, because this chapter remains an integral part of the law, and because in the second reading we have the opportunity to submit amendments only to articles that have been changed on the parent working body, there is also an amendment that says at least this part, registration, in Article 5, registration, recognition of forms of treatment and this, we reintroduce and transfer the powers of the Medical Chamber back to the Ministry. This is just a minor intervention, as we planned with amendments on the working body. However, it still ensures quality control and quality delivery of medicinal activities. In particular, in the interest of protecting the user, the user will be safe even when using the service provided by the physician in your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Given that the co-signatures of the proposed amendment have very well explained the reasons why not the Medical Chamber, but the Ministry, would have touched on another problem. Firstly, my assessment is that the introduction of the Chamber, namely the Medical Chamber, is actually followed by the Medical Chamber of the Medical Services Act, and we do not write into this law what follows explicitly from this law and what was also the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that, by the introduction of the Medical Chamber, healers become mandatory members of this Chamber. Although we do not want to write this as explicitly as it is enshrined in the Medical Service Act. Of course, the question arises: Why? I think it's a lack of transparency towards those who will be healers tomorrow, a complete task that still needs to be done. Of course, in my opinion, the second unconstant transfer of solutions from the Medical Service Act to this law is the fact that medicine is assessed or directed here as an economic activity, and there is a significant difference. And in my opinion, the nonconsistency of this law when we introduce, on the one hand, an operator of an activity in Article 6, where we say that it is a full-year natural person. So a natural person who has received at least secondary education and so on. There's an analogy here, somehow, on the side of the Medical Services Act. For in the Medical Chamber are members who are doctors. And here's where the problem comes from. And here I would like, of course, to ask that this article is open and that the rest of it is no longer available, in conjunction with Article 9, where we are talking about the status form and conditions and we are saying that a medical activity is carried out in the form of an economic company or a sole entrepreneur of an individual or a sole entrepreneur of an individual. The question here is: Who is a member of the Chamber? Who's going to be a member of the chamber? Will a healer, as a natural person, be a member of this Chamber an economic company or an independent entrepreneur? A very important question that I would like you to define here. For this is also very relevant to the provisions that speak of penalty, punishment, control and all these matters. So, a very important question that I don't think is adequately resolved. However, I would be happy if I were wrong and, of course, I would like an accurate answer as to who would be a member of the Chamber. Or a healer as a natural person? In analogy, he's a doctor. But since we speak to the Medical Chamber and the official medicine that this is an unprofitable activity, here we introduce the Medical Chamber, which has a status form within the activity defined as an economic society or an independent entrepreneur. There is a great dilemma for me here, which will certainly be able to bring about or bring a lot of uncertainty and confusion in the field of the implementation of this law. I would therefore like you to define here exactly what the content of the answer is. For if it is not clear here what this means, then it is reasonable to follow the amendment, which speaks of not introducing the Medical Chamber, and that these activities are carried out by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u82	I will answer this directly because it is a fairly clear dictatorship in the law itself, where it says that a member of the Medical Chamber is a healer. But who is the healer, it's written in Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I am reopening my application for debate on Article 5 and both amendments to this Article. Mr. Juban. Here, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I answer to the debate or ask questions to representatives of the government, the ministry, for example, as a user of medicine. It is known that people tend to be more tolerant of their colleagues within a sector. The same is true of the health sector. It has been a taboo for a long time that - for example - medical errors that have occurred have been difficult to detect or critical of them have been almost nothing. In recent years, fortunately, these things have changed significantly. Although it is different if these errors are identified by doctors among themselves. The same will happen after this law that healers will be more tolerant of mistakes, to the irregularities that would occur in this system than someone else, whom I consider to be more important than they can be. Because the system itself, the prescribed vocational education and everything else is a little lower, different from health care. But as a user of health services, both of them, I am very interested in having full control of the service until my health Ministry of Health. Because in this case, when we cancel this amendment, which introduces control of the medical system, the Ministry of Health should include "no medicine". This is what I, as a user, do not accept as a citizen and this amendment is very important to me because I trust you more than a system that is more tolerant of its people than any other system. And it would be very helpful to think about it, because after what you said a little while ago, there's a flaw in this thing. And this has added to the fact that those who have control of the state of treatment in this country do not care how my doctors will provide me with their services. Then, as I understand you, you say you have a room, if anything happens, you go there, solve the problem at the Medical Chamber. This problem of yours is none of my business. I don't think this solution is good and it seems to imagine whether or not we would accept some amendments that my colleague said were "some of your solutions" just to oppose. It's not like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Minister, this is exactly what my predecessor, Mr Juban, has been saying right now. Will such a way as you force it, without considering the methods that have been introduced in the world, be carefully studied, especially - say - German form? Is this how the user, who will receive medical care, will be sufficiently protected, but if we know that such organised work will be within the Chamber of Economics, but it protects certain interests rather than public health, we are also called users? Because it makes sense. In doing so, the Chamber of Commerce or healers will put their interests ahead of the interests of the user. In short, they will not worry about public health in terms of national and general interest. That's what I'm asking you to answer. At the same time, let me draw attention to another inconsistencies in this place, which is in fact the inconsistencies of the Government. In this room, a compulsory membership in a chamber was broken down. It was decommissioned in a manner such as compulsory, compulsory treatment. It has been said that we are in the past; you have spoken from Mr Mitje Ljubeljska to Marinič and Hvauc, and so on, when it was said that mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce should be abolished. You know, in the past, we had one union, one client, one television, and one chamber. Now you want, but from another point of view, to push surveillance into one surely profitable and also from a country funded form of bureaucratic organisation that will primarily take care of certain interests, not for the interests of the user and will control itself. The answer to the question whether the user will be protected is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u88	To conclude, I would only answer that question because then the Secretary of State will replace me. This dilemma, whether the Chamber or the Ministry as a decisive factor in the implementation of this law or in the functioning of the medicine in the future, is described and foreseen in the law. In fact, the section of expertise is provided for under the supervision of the Chamber and is under the control of the Ministry, and in administrative work, it also supervises the Ministry by prescribing and overseeing the performance of this service. So I think that this request of yours is already more or less acceptable in this proposal. It is true, however, that the bill or the law, when adopted, will live in practice. I think that, given that we are introducing this way in Slovenia for the first time, such a law for this activity, we can assume that there will be some additional changes or additional proposals that will only be made in practice. It's a specific activity. It is an activity that is specifically organised in each country. It depends primarily on tradition. It is extremely difficult to compare the Norwegian organisation of medicine with Slovenia. Above all, in this part, who should carry out this business, in what ways it is controlled. I think that the law in this form, as it is now prepared, is made possible by this bill, is the result of some consensus of various factors that can never be satisfied with 100% of all. However, as for compulsory membership in the Chamber, this law does not explicitly require it in principle. However, you have rightly observed that the text of the law makes compulsory membership virtually inevitable. There is no conflict with other chambers which already have mandatory membership, in particular in terms of ensuring, in this case, that the more normal, more normal functioning of this area is ensured. Above all, it is important that they join the Chamber here, as I have previously replied to individuals as mandatory members, not society and so on, which was previously in the Chamber of Commerce. I think that such an option, which is also given or this way of working, which has already been presented, is at the moment the most solid start for the start or start for this law, for the operation of medicine in Slovenia within the framework of legislation, and that this is the only goal. And the purpose of such a proposal as is now presented here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We continue the debate under Article 5. Member Bojan Homan has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! I believe that membership in the Medical Chamber is necessary. So far, the healers have conducted their exams at the Chamber of Commerce. It was just in May that a second year was completed by certain healers. I can tell you that this Chamber of Commerce has its own names, which are also doctors. Let me mention Mr. Papugo, Mr. Dervisevic, Mr. Manjulo Hitti and Milena Plut. I have no fear of why these recognized doctors or healers would also be successful in their Medical Chamber. I believe that they will be able to be even more successful, that they will be able to operate exclusively in the profession and exclusively in those areas which they believe will be able to decide for themselves what is good for them and what is not. If the chamber can organise itself, if it is strong, the doctors can only be more powerful, more organised, and they can also make better proposals to amend the later law. I don't see any problem with that. I don't know why there's so much arguing, whether it's necessary or not. I welcome it, and it makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you, too, for your discussion. Member Franz Jazbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today, many things have already been said in the consideration of the amendments to Articles 2, 4 and 5. Among other things, there is little about the content of the amendments that were written and forwarded to the three opposition groups, as well as the Slovenian National Party's Group in particular. The fact is, these amendments are identical in both cases. And it is also a fact that amendments to the National Assembly have been sent by the Slovenian Homeopathic Society and the Medical Union to individual parliamentary groups and all Members of the Health Committee. Normally, I think these motioners want to have the marriage that they want. In the event that Article 5 of the amendments tabled are amended and delegated to the Ministry of Health, the law provides that they will be carried out by the Medical Chamber, the law will essentially lose effect because it will continue to allow disorder in this area. Although the law is written in such a way as to introduce order in the field of medicine in Slovenia. The adoption of the proposed amendments would certainly allow for further disorder. When we listen to all the debaters so far about these three articles that have been discussed, I find something that unfortunately official medicine cannot help some. But I don't think they're going to get a piece of the Medical Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u94	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In this article, however, I think it is important that we by means of the amendment try to introduce some kind of clearer control over this. The Ministry of Health, of course, is supposed to be concerned not only about the etablished medicine, but about health at all. And I also belong to the treatment that will be performed by healers. However, today we have heard that it is the first marriage, that it will be an attempt of some kind, and that we will then see how it goes. You can agree with that. But such attempts in vitro must, of course, be a little more controlled. It is not through a chamber that certainly represents the interests of the state, but also through the state. At least at the beginning. That is why I think it is important that the country has a better, more precise and clearer view of what is going to happen here. Even because it is likely to be listed, true official medicine has to ask why people are so fleeing to complementary alternatives, different methods are said. It's very clear. Etablished medicine has been greatly dehumanised as a result of this accession to technology. And much of what is the answer in this law and in the will of people, the desire to go elsewhere, is a great question to be asked by official etablished medicine. As far as this is concerned, it is certainly a very useful marriage, and it would be considered to support it as such. Why don't I back him up, but I'll tell him in explanation of vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. And to the word I invite the apostle John Grille. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you again very much for your word. Otherwise, in my previous debate, I have already mentioned the position, both personally and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, that the Medical Chamber is certainly the institution which is the most professionally and comprehensively regulated or will regulate the field of medicine. For this will be a largely professional body that will bring together healers or all those who know the most in this area. And as I have already mentioned, who can contribute more to the review, supervision and development of this activity itself as a medical chamber and, of course, all its members. Today it was possible to hear in the debate that a mandatory membership was reintroduced here. They want to compare the matter with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and similar comparisons. Here it is necessary to separate, and we must not mix pears and apples together. For the Chamber of Commerce, whatever it was in the past, had as much purpose as the objective of action as the Medical Chamber has. Let me just say a comparison. In the environment where I come from, at the time of the Chamber of Commerce, one of the directors mentioned in the interview that he paid every month to the Chamber of Commerce cca. Two million tolars of SIT. And he doesn't even get a card for that on the new year. So much so that we will have in mind the role of the Chamber of Commerce. However, the Medical Chamber is entirely different in its planning to organize itself. As well as her roles, as far as membership and membership are concerned. It is well defined in this bill that a healer who will not reach 4 000 euros in annual transport or income will not pay any membership fee. The membership itself, which is calculated here or the proposal of how it will be calculated, can be said to be completely realistic and will not impose too much financial burden on the healers themselves. By assessing for myself that it is the right way for the Medical Chamber to be formed in the manner proposed and, of course, that it will then also contribute to the maintenance and development of medicinal activities. By making this amendment. I do not support, not me personally, nor the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I will open a re-application procedure concerning the two amendments to Article 5. I'm asking you to sign up. First of all, I invite the Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It is because the opponents of the amendments to Article 5 do not know in any way how to oppose and state the reasons that such an amendment should be supported. When you look at the law, you see that the medicine in it is arranged as an economic activity. However, you introduce and place it in a Medical Chamber, which will be different from what government Members have said. From the economics of probably sending a card for the new year to someone. But the one who does not achieve is a healer who will not reach 4,000 euros in annual traffic without having to pay his membership fee, and he will not be able to survive himself. Please. And who needs such a chamber? This is about economic activity. The Chamber will be set up to prevent the State from exercising control over the medicine. The burden will always be passed on from the Ministry of Health to the Medical Chamber and we have done absolutely nothing about it. Of course, I will be happy to support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the Ambassador Majdo Shirca. Here you go! You have a replica. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate my colleague Zagorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u101	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. My inattention. Comrade Grill, it just tells me you weren't appointed in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u102	But he did mention my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u103	Comrade Grill, I'm in charge of this session and I won't give you my word. But I'll be able to open another application circuit, and then I'll invite you to the debate. The text is by Ambassador Majda Shirtz. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u104	Indeed, the Ministry, when it proposes public powers, which should be in the interest of the public authority of the Chamber, essentially also withdraws from this issue. With regard to supervision, however, it is necessary to say that one of the key tasks of the Chamber is found in Article 24, which specifically states "protecting the interests and rights of healers" of the Economic or Medical Chamber. It's called the rights of the healers, not the users of this medicine. And with regard to the costs to be incurred, let me point out that I believe the Ministry of Health has allocated 300 000 or almost 305,000 euros to this Chamber for their operation. Which means he sees that it is better to give the cost of putting the cost elsewhere than that he consumes it himself and cares in this way for public authority as for other health care in general. Actually, this is about separating one system from another. We recognize one of them as our own, and he just redirects it to other places. However, monitoring this is very weak, as we read below the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I am pleased that I can now prove that we have not discussed Articles 2 and 4 for free. Medicine is traditional, complementary and alternative medicine. Medicine is not the production of grass, dry fruit and treatment, manual processing of this or that. Health is not an economy. But it's traditional, complementary, alternative medicine. And that's why he's a medical examiner. No hard thing is to set up a new job, a new sector, whatever. And we support exactly what the minister said. We, when we want to control medicine and no one else, no chamber, give medicine the sharp cut with which medicine precisely knows what, how, and why it does, if it is a healer. And this is now evidence that this Article 5 amendment, which was tabled by the Slovenian National Party, is justified and proved, is now proved to be justified. And since I've been a speaker -- I've been saying all this time today -- I have to speak to the respected, no, not the respected, fellow from SDS -- yes, the one we talked about; because he's not. Normal, so regular medicine doesn't help us. But the cure may be ours. Well, like him, neither medicine nor medicine is helping anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Ljubo Germić. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you. I myself am joining all those who have been saying all the time that we have been considering this law that control is one of the key elements and content as a result of the adoption of this law. That is why I asked the Minister earlier who is a member of the Chamber, and I warned that this undefined field could cause confusion and failure to exercise control. Given that it has ensured that this is enshrined in Article 6, I would remind him that in the definition of the tasks of the Chamber we write down that he exercises professional supervision of the medics. Article 25 speaks of irregularities occurring in supervision when costs are settled by a controlled company, not by a healer. And I also draw attention to article 41, where it is written under the heading "professional supervision": "The Chamber exercises professional supervision over healers and companies." Of course, I ask myself here: How can we exercise professional control over companies with a description in Article 41, if we are speaking in an article describing the competences of the Chamber to carry out professional supervision of healers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Before opening the second round, I ask the government representative to answer an issue or question raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u110	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We believe that, as presented, there is no obstacle to the control of healers or companies. It's about them being able to join you in law enforcement. The Chamber, according to known experiences, when - for example - I draw a parallel with the Medical Chamber, which supervises only individuals, could also monitor the entire activity. In this way, we are also expanding the control of the entire treatment activity for which it is registered. I would mention another important point of view in different ways of introducing control in this area. We are sure, and we have pointed out this several times in the introductory words, that by the definition of medicine we are laying down certain frameworks for this activity. And only in terms of governance, organisation or somehow controlling the system will the ministry ensure that this control is carried out. However, professional supervision can, of course, only be exercised by qualified persons. And these are the medics who will be brought together in the Medical Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? I'm reopening procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill to the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I would like to respond in particular to the predecessor’s comments, in connection with his membership in the Medical Chamber and in general. The law makes it clear that membership in the Medical Chamber is intended for physicians, not for companies or institutions that will do so. And that's where the divorce is to be made. We can have a company, an economic company that will employ 10 or 20 healers. Meaning, each of these, if you want to have a license, will also have to be a member of the Medical Chamber. There's a big difference in that. And apparently someone doesn't separate or read the law. In this regard, this is the essence and also the essential difference between the Chamber of Commerce and medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much. But to the word I invite a Member, or to ask you this question: "Dear Members and Members, does anyone else want to discuss?" [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite you to the word of Boštian Zagorec. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. If anyone here doesn't understand anything, then my predecessor certainly doesn't know what he's saying. The Medical Chamber will not be established for companies. Her members will be healers. Furthermore, we read that if the healer does not reach EUR 4 000 per year, he will not have to pay the membership fee. It is said that it will depend on the level of the individual or the salary of an individual healer in a company, whether it will reach EUR 4 000 in one year or not. Members of the Medical Chamber will be companies and healers involved in the treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate in conjunction with Article 5. We're here to serve you. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Of course I would have warned.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u117	It's a new application circuit.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u118	Of course, I'd like to remind you of the proper dictatorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u119	Comrade Germich, I'm opening a new application circuit. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u120	Of course, I would like to insinuate that we do not know the content of the law, of course, to point out the 23rd article, where it explicitly states: "Healthers combine their professional, professional and ethical interests in the Chamber for their protection. So it's healers." And I would ask if you would look at the articles so that there is no record of legal persons joining up in the Chamber. But we're talking about healers. And when we talk about control, then it can't be controlled by legal entities. This is what I am talking about, the nonconsistency that is recorded in the following articles, which I have quoted earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr President, I will have to react to this and help myself a little, depending on who's involved. Yes, in fact, healers will be involved in the chamber. But if we look at it, I think it's Article 43, Article 41, where we're talking about professional supervision - the Chamber exercises professional supervision of healers and companies in order to ensure the professionality of work in accordance with the specific annual programme adopted in agreement with the Ministry. Again, I should like to stress that the involvement of physicians will be possible, but the supervision will be possible either over a particular healer or over an association or a society or with a company of healers. That seems to make sense to us. Otherwise, this surveillance would be extremely limited. But the law is clear here. I think I've pointed out to you the articles I'm talking about. In short, I would like to re-emphasize. We believe that this is how we introduce professional supervision within those who are also adequately qualified, competent to do so. The management organization itself or whatever you call it. It's hard to translate English words. What the Ministry has to do will be carried out by the Ministry. The organisation, the supervision of the exercise of supervision, and we leave the supervision to the professional circle provided by the Medical Chamber in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Thank you. I conclude the debate and open the 6th Article and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Of course, I am surprised that the proposed amendment did not want to justify the content of the proposed amendment. And I would like to ask if this is possible, given that it is justifiable, that this is just some kind of harmonisation amendment, which I completely disagree with for a simple reason, because it is an essential substantive amendment. And if possible, I'd like to ask the proposer if he can explain the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The amendments are proposed by four members of the group, Comrade Ljubo Germič. The amendments to Article 6 have been tabled - once again, I say - by four SD, NSI, SLS and DeSUS members. By the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of this power, that is, to ask them to explain, I do not have the Presidency. But may I ask again: Does any of the candidates want a word? Yes, you do. Here you go, buddy Grill!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u125	Well, thanks again for saying that. The amendment of the LDS Group was adopted at the Committee's own hearing. I think there were also co-proposers, because during that debate we assessed that those solutions were better than the original text. However, it turned out that this article could be further improved. That is why we have now submitted four coalition parties to the hearing and also to the adoption of this amendment, which will contribute to the better implementation of this law. For here it is very clear who and how medical activity can also be carried out. Above all, we have preserved the doctrine here that homeopathy, chiropractics and osteopathy can be carried out exclusively by physicians or people who will have completed medical school, which further ensures a higher level of professional knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and open Article 9 and the amendment. My friend Ljubo Germič, look, I waited because he was in charge of the Rules of Procedure. In the same previous article, we have repeated debates and debates. Please, if you'll hold on to a steady bang. More than softly, we are conducting this meeting of the National Assembly. So I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members and the substantively identical amendment of the LDS, the Non-Related Members and the SD. I'm asking you to sign up. There's no desire to discuss it. I therefore conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 9. We are moving on to Article 24 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: LDS, NP and SD. I'm asking you to sign up. There is also no desire to discuss this amendment. We are moving on to Article 25 and the amendment of the same three groups of Members. I'm opening a possible debate. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Here, of course, I propose to the proposer to reflect on all the warnings I have previously made to avoid this ambiguity by amending or adopting this amendment, where instead of the supervised company under control, the word would be replaced by "supervised medical operator".
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate in conjunction with Article 25. We are moving on to Article 31 and the amendment of the same three groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving on to Article 33.A and the amendment of the four parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to discuss this? I'm opening the procedure. Here you go! Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much again for your word. In fact, with the amendment to this article, we wanted to make it possible to make the amount prescribed or calculated by the healers even lower than the original proposal. That is why we have also proposed such a change. Because this will actually make it easier for each healer to pay for the obligations that will be imposed on him by his membership in the Medical Chamber. We believe that this amendment contributes to an even better text of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you, too. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 33.A. We turn to Article 38 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: the LDS, the Non-Aligned Members and the SD and the amendment of the four parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to discuss this? No, no, no. I am opening a debate under Article 45, the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to discuss this? Not at all. We are moving on to Article 47 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to discuss this? No, no, no. And we move on to Article 47 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss this here? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to Article 50 and the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this here? Yes, please report. Comrade Ljubo Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is linked to my comments in view of the deadline for the executions to be carried out by the Ministry of Law. And it's not physically possible for me to do that. Therefore, we propose to resolve this problem and to extend the time for the establishment of the Medical Chamber from three to 12 months. If this deadline is too long and the Ministry assesses it, then we can still shorten this period in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 50. And we are moving on to the 51st Article and the two amendments of the LDS, the Unaffiliated Members and the SD and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants to discuss these two amendments and Article 51? [[No, no, ……]] The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 22. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law. We have 4 hours and 40 minutes to discuss this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I am, however, giving the floor to the Minister for the supplementary explanation of the bill. Dr. Milan Beast, Minister for Education and Sports, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u133	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members, distinguished guests! As already mentioned, today or today you will have a discussion about two novelties of law. The first is the Novella Law on Primary School. This novel is followed by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Of the two novels, many have been heard and read in recent months. This introduction I'm going to introduce is not going to be a novelty. Nevertheless, allow me to draw attention to some of the more important things that the Basic School Act brings. First, we have completed our goals in this law. In particular, it is the right of migrant children, which is practically the only issue that national school systems are obliged to introduce under the European Directive. Everything else remains in the sovereign domain of national school systems. The next novelty is the way to evaluate. The law or amendment of the law makes it more clear that the descriptive evaluation is limited only to the first triad, the first cycle, and that it is assessed numerically in the next two triads. Teachers are also obliged to explain the assessment in writing or orally. The law also touches on the issues of student advancement. For the first time, it is possible for a student not to make progress without the consent of his parents, which means that we give professional autonomy to teacher decision-making. Elevated objects. As you know, there will be no need to select students from one of the natural systems, the other from the social sciences. Music will also be considered a selective activity or a selection object. In the legal dictatorship, we bring the issue of flexible subjects to the law, where we also allow institutions to deploy more autonomous hours. For me, a very important or key novelty is the educational plan for this novel. As you know, we are introducing the teaching of another foreign language in the last triad as a compulsory foreign language. There was also a lot of talk about this news in public. I hope that there will also be a little more time today so that we can justify and justify this novelty. General learning success is being abandoned. Because, on the one hand, there are insufficient clearly defined standards for this, and on the other hand, sometimes general learning success does not reflect enough objective success. We introduce the possibility of inclusion, in particular of children from special schools in regular departments in certain objects where possible. So this is where the doors for integration and integration open. We are introducing a Slovenian Institute for Children of Foreigners, Migrants. And we bring into the law certain provisions of the four rules. Especially those relating to the rights and duties of students. One of the articles also introduces criminal provisions for the parents of those pupils who do not attend compulsory primary school. In Article 16, however, the subject is updated. The fact is that the law so far has been very superficially listed, and it has laid down the subjects that children had in school. So much for that introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, Members, guests and all present! So, on the bench we got a correction, so complemented the Basic School Act. It is certainly a basic law in the field of education and therefore even more important. Unfortunately, however, we find it difficult to share the view that the Government has approached the drafting of this law in accordance with its meaning that it has approached the way in which it can participate as widely as possible to the general public as possible. This is also justified by the fact that they either oppose the law or have serious concerns for many, not least the Government’s professional council. If we can take a closer look at some of the new proposals in this law, we see in the introduction that it regulates new objectives and also complements the objectives of primary education. We can, of course, agree with many of these objectives at the LDS. However, the question remains how these objectives have been achieved. The minister did not see the real need to prepare a white book and referred to an old white book. This, of course, makes it all the more questionable whether there would then be old goals associated with the old white book still true. Certainly even more important, for in the preparation of the new white book, the unions were willing to participate. Finally, this production is also co-financed. And in this way, we could involve the entire interested public more significantly and all those involved in education, of course. Be like performers or users. We see that teaching another foreign language as a compulsory subject is added. On the one hand, of course, a very positive addition. Also important in the global world we live in. However, when we look also at the possible side effects of this measure, when we see that this new foreign language is essentially introduced into the account of clocks, at the expense of the volume of the already existing foreign language, this can lead many to worry, to doubts whether it will now be one, this first compulsory foreign language, more superficially processed and whether it will not result in two in half, to a knowledge of two languages, but with a superficial weight. A student of choice may choose from a new one without restriction and, of course, may also include education under the music school programme in this obligation. The choice, yes, we can agree that there will be no selectivity of the one that is intended for each student to find his own area and give him more emphasis in primary school, he is educated in those directions, in those areas to which he is more inclined. On the other hand, we must be aware that primary school is intended to provide pupils with one basic and broad knowledge. And - let's say - if the student chooses a music school, then of course he doesn't have to choose any of the other subjects and it's an option for additional education and it's an opportunity to acquire basic knowledge in those areas where they feel inclined, which, of course, later on in their careers may be most useful, lost. The solution to teaching hours, which is also welcomed in the amendment of the law. We believe the system is working in the right direction. However, we cannot pass on the fact that the LDS Members have already proposed this in their proposal for a law in 2005, but that the Ministry of Education and Sport has not adopted the solution and has not been comparable. We believe that the disrupting factor was mainly the applicant. Not now, but we are glad that our good proposal is now finally included in this law. The general learning success is also addressed. General learning success. On the one hand, we can hear that one of the features of our educational system. This is not true, of course, that it would only be in Slovenia. On the other hand, the Minister excuses the removal of general learning success by reducing pressure on teachers and thus reducing the number of excellence. Because now he thinks there's too many. Of course, it does not seem right and reasonable for us to solve a problem instead of solving a problem, to solve a problem, to eliminate the indicator of this problem, because it will be nothing different, but now the pressure will be after that for an average score of four and a half if the pressure is not on the excellent students. Perhaps even the pressure on the average score of 5.0 will be so much higher. Is this going to be that thing, that goal that students and, of course, then their parents are going to pursue? So we did not solve this problem by eliminating the learning success. We've only cleared the indicator. We have, of course, left a new threat, a new possibility that knowledge will be the breadth of knowledge and this basic knowledge that our primary school students receive, lower or at least more focused on one area on an account and neglecting other areas. If, of course, I will be very specific, there is no too much affinity to science and technology, but perhaps physics will not be taught, because it will not have the motive to - and we all know that - with average effort, a medallion that can achieve excellent grades anywhere else can achieve a good assessment in all areas with or a little more than average effort. This will not be done and will be natural knowledge, specific knowledge of physics at a sufficient level. Why did I choose physics? Because I would also like to warn you at this point that no one could watch me on TV, that they would not hear me, even the climate in this room would not work, and essentially, no more things that in our everyday life seem to us to be perceptive, without physics today would not have. It's a very important subject. Because of all this, we cannot support the law at the LDS Parliamentary Club. It is also surprising that in his introduction, when presenting or comparing marriage solutions with solutions in other countries, the Minister referred to Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark to these countries, with 10 pages. And half the pages of everyone else who's still listed there. It is right to follow these countries as well, but not only in these countries and not only in those points and places which, of course, are responsible for supporting these solutions proposed by the Minister. Due to the already announced opposition and serious concerns of the profession, even the government professional council and the fact that there were only two weeks of time for the debate, the preparers, i.e. the experts who prepared the law, are not prepared to provide it publicly. At the LDS Club, we do not support and oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented or presented by Member Marjetka Uhan. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u137	Dear Minister with colleagues, Members of Parliament, all who accompany us on the balcony and at home! Nicely greeted! In general, we have a change to the Basic School Act. In Novi Slovenije we also supported the general treatment of the law because in recent times some dust has been raised, that public education is being demolished and that these anticipated changes are too sudden, too fast and that there is no time for presentation and coordination. We are wondering why this is so misleading for the public, but if the anticipated legal changes were presented to the directors last autumn and they were grinding around in different circles, forums, social partners, parents and professional circles to this day. So, why such an attack on anticipated changes? In Novi Slovenije we have studied the changes envisaged. They seem to make sense to us. Far from being radical what some want to show, such as the Syndicate of Education and Education. As a result of these changes, no school, no job, shall be abolished. We respect teachers and their mission, effort and work in education and education. We want them to be less burdened by the administration to be more independent in their work, in the design of teaching, in the selection of methods for the supply of substances in the light of the situation at school. So about the number of children, material and other abilities. Above all, we want their reputation to return so that they can be effective in training methods. Not only in education that we do not live under stress, that someone can sue them if something happens to a child after an accident or if a possible correct educational measure has not been given. After all, parents do. What's their role? It is right that the saints of parents play their part and be equal in the educational process. We welcome the educational plans developed jointly by teachers, students, and parents. All three actors must be included in the training programmes. Because it will only make us aware that the upbringing of children is one of the most important tasks of parents and teachers for normal growth and development and the creation of a personality that will develop into a separate personality, while at the same time ready to accept responsible tasks, responsibilities and differences. Education and education are equivalent tasks and the mission of everyone in school. We are convinced that in the past there has been a lack of education. There have been too many prescribed measures, forms and perhaps too few alternative training methods. Novela brings another foreign language as a compulsory object. We have some concerns in New Slovenia as well. Is it true that all children do not have language, that some still find it difficult to learn or understand the substance, and that another foreign language will add to the burden of such children and parents? Neither will everyone go to high school and not everyone will be looking outside of Slovenia or dealing with foreign-speaking people. On the other hand, today many parents ’ desire to learn foreign languages is the fact that they are mass enrolled in additional education. As well as time and conditions dictate the learning of foreign languages. Most primary schools also provide an opportunity for children to choose as a foreign language subject. Therefore, in New Slovenia we support the gradual introduction of another foreign language and support the Ministry's thinking that it will be given with appropriate didactic methods and in different subjects, so that it will sit in essentially in an inconceivable way with children and will be implemented in an unforced manner. But it is a fact that without learning and effort it is not possible to hope for success, for without a fly, it is not yet a shoe. General learning success is overturned. A lot of countries don't know that. But with us, it seems like we're only learning because of success. Many times it seems as if they are searching for what children do not know, but not what they have won, for which they are talented and have an interest in education in this area. So the goal is to highlight the child’s strengths, his talents, and the direction in which he will develop. Still, the average score stimulates it for objects that are less lying to it. In Nova Slovenija we welcome the recognition of the music school as a selection subject. Perhaps this is not the only content that makes sense to recognize or choose instead of one or two compulsory selection items from the school’s school set. And another novelty. If the child is already selected from the school proposals, after this novel we also give him the opportunity to choose two subjects from the same field and not as now when he had to choose one from the sociology, the other from the natural science. On the one hand, we try to make the child’s choice of what lies with him happy, and on the other hand, we can’t get out of our skin so that we don’t tell him again what he has to choose. So, we welcome the change. We welcome the flexible subject, since it is finally up to the schools to organise a number of subjects themselves within the expected hours and the learning year in terms of staffing and spatial opportunities. Primary school remains compulsory for all children. Even for some parents who still do not take this seriously and send their children to school only occasionally. The law provides for a penalty for inadvertentity in entering and violating the rules of the game. Training children for the threat of other children, non-compliance with general legality, according to a professional proposal and the consent of schools, will also be possible without parents who are obviously not partial to such children themselves. If this will benefit the child as well as others and is practically feasible - we support, but this will be more likely to be an exception than the rule in this cycle of education. We will support the proposed changes. We believe, however, that in the field of education, not only education, but also in the field of education and education, there is still something to improve in favour of a generation which, in its childhood years, forms its own personality and which will pass on its knowledge, behaviour, its attitude towards material and spiritual goods to future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be given by Mr Mikhael Prevc. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and distinguished guests! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act actually brings some very important changes, namely, the purpose of the amendment to the Basic School Act is mainly to introduce some modern elements in the field of education in primary school. Then, the repetition of the class is supposed to be exceptional, then it wants to introduce greater flexibility of the subject, education of children in hospitals, interdisciplinary link, educational plan, education of children without parental consent, house order. Relax your general learning success. Another language is also introduced in the floods and evaluation is also to be arranged. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support greater autonomy of schools in organising and carrying out educational work. In this way, the school will be able to take more account of the specificity of the environment in which it is located. Schools will independently regulate part of the content that is now regulated in the sub-legislative acts in their acts. However, it is necessary to lay down some of the content in advance of the law so that the public school in various parts of Slovenia is still comparable so that all students have the same opportunities. Modern migration processes are also taking place in our country. We fully understand that these processes must also be taken into account in the education process. Modern European countries are known to facilitate the inclusion of foreigners in a new society through the provision of education. We therefore agree that we will also allow them to be successfully integrated into the educational system through the provision of assistance in learning Slovenian. We accept the reasons cited as intended for the introduction of two mandatory foreign languages. However, we are proposing in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that it is still necessary to examine whether this will not mean for certain students who have already had problems with one foreign language, additional burdens and needlessly poor learning outcomes in other subjects that they will need more for their further training. So, the opposite effect of good purpose. How much will this affect, for example, students who want different professions, where it is not necessary to know so many foreign languages? Won't that mean more discrimination between students when we speak, a school that is more capable? You may also need to ask your parents or stay with the old system and offer only another foreign language. In the law, the proposed amendment of the subject is intended, according to the applicant, to relieve the student, who is to be achieved by increasing the diversity of didactic models, strategies, methods and forms of work, thereby allowing for more inter-purpose planning and teaching and learning in different combinations of subjects and thus the effectiveness of carrying out educational work. We support the intention to relieve teachers and school management, which would facilitate the organisation of educational work. We are committed to making schools and especially teachers more dedicated to students and their development. In accordance with the law, schools will therefore be able to establish an educational plan on their own, by means of school rules, house rules, school publications, the allocation process and the withdrawal of the student status, which is co-educated or the status of the athlete, the exercise of teaching and others. Of course, this is the purpose of the changes and their expected result is worth all the support. In particular, taking into account the known results of experimental implementation, the so-called flexible subject, which took place between 3,053 pupils and 28 primary schools in the school year 2006/2007. So 6.25% of primary schools. The report states that the dynamics of learning were different in these schools. They're doing more experiments, more field work, learning outside classrooms. They spend more time on repetition. Students are also more active and motivated to work. So the lesson is certainly more interesting for the students. These schools also note that better time and organisational conditions for the development of the creativity of pupils and teachers, more active involvement of students in the learning process, fewer homework, inter-purpose integration and more effective implementation of the substantive and procedural objectives of learning plans. The assessment of the experiment is that such an organisation of work leads to the achievement of the planned objectives of the project. This is the relief of students and professional workers. It is particularly important for us to gain the reintroduction of the curriculum. According to the amendment, schools will plan their work in the field of education through a curriculum adopted by the school council to determine how values can be achieved, praise, recognition, awards, types of educational measures and adopt school rules. We agree that there must be order in schools. Therefore, the rules of conduct and conduct and the responsibilities and duties of pupils, as well as the organisation of pupils, the justification of absence, the manner in which safety is ensured, the participation in the provision of student health care and other important areas must be laid down in advance. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also support the proposal to cooperate with parents and students in this school and to work with them on ways to realize the values, praises, recognitions, awards, types of educational measures and to adopt rules of school order which will define rules of conduct and conduct and violations of the rules of responsibility and duties of pupils, educational measures, student organisation, justification for absence, means of ensuring safety, participation in the provision of student health care and other areas. The curriculum shall be adopted by the Council of Schools within the same period and by the same procedure as the annual work plan. However, it is necessary to define and examine thoroughly the procedures for the implementation of the instructions provided by the Minister by means of a sub-legislative act. A child’s schooling measure without parental consent must indeed be an extreme measure when no other methods can be used. Although Novela foresees that in the case of a student studying without the consent of his parents, the school must obtain the opinion of the Centre for Social Work before the student is included in another school, in the light of the circumstances, as well as the opinion of other institutions and the consent of another school. A student enrolled in another school shall also have the right to free transport provided that his or her residence is more than 4 kilometres from the primary school where he or she is enrolled. We believe, however, that transport costs are not comparable to the possible consequences that such a measure leaves on a child. It is therefore necessary to ensure that such a measure does not become a rule. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we also have some dilemmas about the fact that the school will no longer have general success after a new school at the end of the school. We are aware that teachers and principals in particular were under severe pressure from both pupils and parents at the end of the year of general success. However, on the other hand, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the final general success for the child means some motivation that helps to improve knowledge in certain subjects at the end of the year. Given that teachers and directors directly linked to these amendments do not oppose these changes, we will also respect their opinion in the Slovenian People's Party and, of course, we will be actively involved in this provision in the following procedure of this legislation. I can say that in the Slovenian People's Party we support the principles of all these changes and agree that the law goes into further procedure. We believe that the law is certainly suitable for further consideration. In this further discussion, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will actively cooperate with their proposals and we will try to contribute to making this law even better in its final form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be given by Ambassador Majda Shirc. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Minister is here! Minister Beast, I don't know why you're in such a hurry. Or is it because you are running out of time that you need to do something quickly without listening to those who know how to think more and more about the questions you are opening? Why are you in such a hurry, despite the fact that almost no one who is seriously and responsibly involved in the teaching work has supported the proposed changes? Almost everyone's against it. You're the only one in favor. Your group is in and your coalition is in. We are simply saying that in the face of conceptual changes, such changes that have consequences for all of us, however, it is necessary to think clearly and in an argumentative manner. Above all, find consensus with all those who think responsiblely about it. You said no. What's more, you've drawn up two laws that are based on lies. At least that's how we see it today. For I see that you have used the General Education Council, saying that it agrees with you or that it has participated well enough in the discussion of changes to one and the other laws in the school area. While alone, the General Education Council itself claims something completely different. He warned you that we should not approach the changes in a fast way, so that we should not, for example, agree to reduce the selection of selection items when we are talking about the Basic School Act and more. He warned you, in fact, he agreed on this law and gave a positive assessment of only the second Bologna level of education for teachers. Not the rest, but not the rest. But what do you say, Minister Beast? You say it is a consistent and quality law, but it is based on long-term coordination. But 13 NGOs say this is not the case, and then we are suppressed by our political and other burdens to judge what is right and what is wrong. By rejecting us from listening to 13 non-governmental competent organisations, which you have also rejected in the process of co-forming this text or shortening their time of possible response. But, Minister Beast, you say, not only to public perceptions, but to the obvious, so to speak, of all relevant non-governmental organizations, that these are unserious statements. I am literally quoting you: "To speak of a group of hawks who have a monopoly on absolute truth and for so-called consecrated ones, who now have a stake in their past." Such a discussion of conceptual changes in education. This is the true destiny of ours, as we would say, to the top of the most developed, is questionable. And that's why we have problems with both the Basic Education Act and the ZOFI. For instead of thorough reflections, the ministry offers perhaps virtually n cities sometimes also blind maneuvers. For example, let me touch the exemptions for visiting selected objects. For example, if they attend a music school, certain exemptions are to be made. And why do I think, for example, that the maneuver is already blind in this place or that the solution is virtual? Because it doesn't solve the overload of those kids who don't go to music schools. The new concept of selection items, as set out in the Basic School Act, is certainly an option for a student to avoid participation in the selection courses. That's why we think it's risky, because selectivity is decreasing. And at this point, we logically wonder whether the selections are really responsible for the problems of the students, so it is necessary to degrade them. Let's say I'm not familiar with you. Maybe you're with the Ministry of Education. I am not aware of any credible research that would insist that our students and students are overburdened by challenging school programs. There are and there are data showing that by number of hours they are among the least burdened at school. So much more so at home by doing homework or by learning. Well, then get on with the selection stuff. Another language, another foreign language, is no disputed knowledge of languages. Absolutely not controversial. However, it is disputed, Mr Minister, that there will be more now but at the expense of the good learning of one language. Here comes the problem, here is that disobedience to other considerations that were not covered in the preparation of this law. Is the abolition of general learning success, of course it is attractive, and this may fall within the scope of your mandate, is it appealing, but is it good? The Minister considers that general learning success clouded the picture, while others believe that it stimulates and encourages learning or effort. It's a big conceptual change. It should now be up to us to make a loving or less loving decision about this change, while others, those who have opened the question, and those who have closed the door for them to develop it in a dignified manner or at an appropriate time. For - I know - you will laugh again, Minister, when this observation is repeated - for the debate was as I know two weeks of time and there is no professional study for this debate and there is no serious and sober professional reflection. It is true, Minister, that you have come to our parliamentary group long ago, and you have set us some frameworks. For example, I'm talking about both laws and I'm sorry not just about education. You talked about paying for private education and so on, we said, of course, we'll listen, we'll immediately point out and focus on certain reflections, but also say, do it according to the profession and listen to them, but not understand them as some, as you say, hawks who don't like the change happening. Okay. Change is necessary, but if there is, then the profession needs to be heard. For, as I say, it is not right for a political reflection on the future of knowledge and behaviour in Slovenia to be broken in this space. Thinking should be evaluated and done sooner. Below we will also draw attention to the inconsistencies of the Basic Education Act in our Group of the Reale Association. It is difficult, however, to deal with it separately with the changes in the second law, where you once again stress and today it is clear again, that you have used professional forums to push fast and speedily run laws that will have fatal consequences without having clear evaluations for this work. Even when you were offered help in preparing a white book.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be given by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course guests on the balcony, Minister and government representatives! We strongly oppose the privatisation of the public sector in the Slovenian National Party or in the Slovenian National Party Group. This is the first sentence with which I begin today's debate or presentation of my position. What ministers do is public health, in the field of public primary education, this means a policy of capital for a very narrow constituency, a policy of creating inequality. Minister, this is a departure from the constitutional term that Slovenia is a social state. For more than a month, there has been controversy around school legislation. In this presentation, I will talk about both laws, because, like my colleague in front of me, it is very difficult for me to treat them separately because they are very interconnected. In his apologies, the Minister did not say to himself how many times that the additional debate on school law is actually only starting today or when the law is being adopted in Parliament on a regular basis. I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues. You know, three years of practice under this government have made it really clear, I believe that every member of this National Assembly, and I believe that even a wider population, which only occasionally monitors the meetings of the National Assembly, that laws are no longer being corrected in Parliament after they have been adopted in the Government. Whether they are constructive proposals by the opposition or by the professional public. Otherwise, we know what this government's position is about the professional public. This is imaginary, there is no regret for this government, for the Prime Minister of the Government. The coalition overwhelms everyone, even constructive proposals. I believe or fear that this will also happen in the course of this consideration of both laws. Minister, admit it, or I hope you will, or you will hope to admit in public that you have not even had enough obedience to give legislation into a serious, professional debate. When the union reminded you of the unacceptable behaviour with regard to school changes, you referred to their proposals as a political debate that had nothing to do with educational activities. Minister, don't have a dialogue and if you try to make excuses to those meetings you had with the parliamentary groups, you know, it was just polite to visit the entire delegation. It was about as extensive as it was today. But at this meeting, Members, at least in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we had no opportunity to see a proposal or draft proposal for both laws. Not to say that, by chance, any of our proposals or comments would be taken into account in the context of I do not know the writing or the creation of legislative proposals. Far from it. I claim that the law is very politicized. The profession does not support the solutions you bring to Parliament and as many as 13 organisations in the field of education and education from all principal associations through the student organisation, the student section, the union, to the Union of Education Workers of Slovenia, it opposes this legislation. Even the government's professional world has serious concerns. They had very clear comments which were not answered. The Minister in public is deceiving. And above that legislation is even the threat of a referendum union. The fact is, Minister Beast is going to cut deep into our education system. Without professional analysis without consensus for this the most competent. The basics of the education and education system are changing without giving a detailed justification for the changes based on the analysis of the situation and, of course, international comparisons and without presenting clear objectives that follow the changes. Trade unions called on the Government to extend the deadline for public debate, to address the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs even the initiative to consider the law as well as the Economic Social Council. Those accompanying yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly were able to hear that Minister Cotmanov was very clumsyly avoiding a concrete answer why this debate on the Economic Social Council had not taken place. I do not know that it will now resolve the debate on school legislation at the September session when it will also include the Economic Social Council. Don't joke. The debate in Parliament began today. The minister had no hearing for 14 days, one month, two months earlier. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, I mentioned some of these facts a while ago, and also invited the President of the Government to withdraw the consideration of school legislation from the agenda of the Government, when it was time, and to put it back on the agenda. There was no effect. In fact, neither the Minister nor the President of the Government have responded to our warning. But you've run over like you've actually warned all the professions, whether this one's red or whatever color it is. In the halls, I will say, off the record, many times use the word that those who oppose the Minister's proposal are red. Such conduct, such ignorance - I will say - on the part of individual ministers of the Prime Minister of the Government, in fact, the entire coalition is no longer just irresponsible. You know, this kind of behavior gets a serious call for vanity. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the announced changes in the framework of school legislation are actually undermining the standard in the field of education and education. Some of the changes, however, will be in this novel, the real primary school law, as in the so-called ZOFVI or the Education and Education Financing Act, introduces a way of financing education and education by the student or the head. In fact, the quality of public education, public education, is no longer important to the Minister of the Beast, but only how much more full the classes will be, how much more he will be able to pump into the school budget in this way. This is a particularly bad journey, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the long run, a particularly bad journey. I do not understand why our policy or our policy cannot maintain what is good and can still be built on quality. Why are we not able - for example - to create a situation that will stimulate the public to co-finance public education, why are we destroying, deliberately destroying good tradition and creating an enabling environment because we will finance from public funds, 100% finance private interests or - better said - the narrow political interests of individuals who have this power to direct decisions and policies in the field of education and education? Dear colleagues, I will say that knowledge is power. I believe you agree with me in this sentence that knowledge has also led to development. Any changes in this area should therefore be made with caution. Slowly, above all, professionally justified. Although the Minister of the Beast has promised that any reform in the field of education and education will work with the greatest possible consensus slowly, well-founded and professionally justified, he does not do so today. The Minister of the Beast is working against his promises before the laws were introduced into the parliamentary procedure. We already have - say - a major problem in Slovenian public education. This problem is called under-funding knowledge. In Slovenia it is happening today that I will give a concrete example, and in the first grade of elementary school it is difficult. And you know why? Because there is no tapephone or CD player in the class because there is no funding. This is a situation that the Minister was not paying attention to when he was preparing this law, even though - I do not mention - big words about the insanely large economic growth of our country of Slovenia. We are even one of the most competitive countries within the European Union. Why, then, do we no longer allocate funds to preserve and improve the quality of public primary education? Schools -- let's say -- today they don't have computers that are today -- I'll say, necessarily evil. On the other hand, Minister Beast predicts 100% financing of private education. Before him, the public was informed - for example - that Slovenia will receive the first Catholic 9-year-old. What a coincidence, you'd say naive. And all I'm going to say is that Minister Beast is very predictable. Not only Minister Beast, the whole Government, since the first day the legislation began to be discussed or amended in favour of the biggest capitalist in Slovenia. What concepts will be introduced, from which centuries of private education or specifically mentioned first Catholic nine - year - olds is not even worth discussing. It is sad, you know, once again, it is sad that private education or private education will be strengthened at the expense of public education, public education and education. That's sad. Recently, the Minister of the Beast waved or boasted about his native upbringing. I agree that Slovenians are not proud enough to be Slovenians and that more needs to be done on this segment in the field of education and education. To raise national consciousness, for example, I read in the newspaper that the first Catholic nine - year - old, who, for the sake of the founder, would be a private person, would have a free hand in the design of the subject, replacing domestic education with a religious object. Yes, I believe this power will be given to the privates, because they will eventually be autonomous, because they will be able to design their educational programs. How quickly can I say that, in fact, the Minister's words are misleading with concrete facts. Last but not least, with previous changes, Minister Beast's policy, whether it be the Education and Education Financing Act or the Basic School Act, has gone in the direction of abolishing the individual treatment of children. I hope you remember these, and I will say quite a few broad debates in Parliament. Last but not least, Minister Beast, you are not so elastic, flexible that, for example, in the framework of the law that we are correcting today, you are correcting - I apologize - you find - for example - a positive solution for autistic children. One of the speakers in front of me commended the law on how good the law is, because it introduces new educational methods, how good the law is because teachers will be able to say, but - I don't know - what kind of educational measures without eating over them, I don't know how scared they're going to get a criminal complaint. You know, I'd like to know the details of the sub-laws that the Minister will introduce under the law. There was no room for autistic children. However, it would be necessary to amend only one sentence within one article, but not because it is not important to Minister Beast. It is important, however, that private schools be financed, in order to actually increase inequality in the Slovenian space, in an area which should be general, which should provide the same starting point for all children, whether from socially weak families or from those families that have more capital under the thumb. I submit that the whole education system or education change policy is politicised. Based on some unknown or perhaps a very clear account of Minister Beast. In fact, how should we explain ourselves differently a year ago about the changes introduced I will give a mere example of the verification of knowledge after the first, second and third years, which have been adopted despite opposition members, despite opposition from the profession, teachers? And later it turned out to be good to change them back. I insist that knowledge should be our obligation, not just justice. Therefore, the central objective of the reform measures cannot be merely the rationalisation of public education, as Minister Zver does, since the Government or should be primarily responsible for the quality of public kindergartens and public schools. The government's responsibility should be to ensure quality in the proposed changes, but it has been completely disregarded. If only the State had been forced to reduce the costs of education, for which the Government had in fact not submitted any arguments, it is not acceptable that, at the same time with tax money, it improves the conditions for private schools. Government lower standards, government higher standards, that's bad. In this part of the presentation of the Group's position, I will conclude, and later, with concrete examples, I will focus on the bad things that the law brings. Indeed, I have spoken more generally, but I believe that I have made the essence very clear, the essence of the Minister's politicised reform. In the Slovenian National Party, therefore - I conclude - we will not support the demolition of the foundations of the public education system. I believe that you will be pleased to confirm that the law is suitable for further consideration. In the Slovenian National Party, we insist that the law is bad, that the law is not harmonised, that the law will have negative consequences in the framework of the educational system, and that we will not support this law, or that we believe that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, if, I believe, the law will go forward through the parliamentary procedure, we will, of course, engage constructively, with constructive and professionally justified amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr DeSUS will be represented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished guests on the balcony! Too much liberal education can prove to be bad if the state does not framed the mechanisms equally throughout the system and introduces experimental programmes only in one or several schools of some random choice. The result and deviations from reality are seen in a moment and more than unusual at the end of this year's school year, when 40% of students in the final classes of primary school with excellent success shows only average knowledge in the national examination. With such a factual situation, we can rightly ask ourselves the need to verify school legislation that is taking place in almost all areas of the school system. But the creation of school policy, without the well-known evaluation and display of results and the analysis of the state of previous changes, cannot give good results either. We are afraid that even if the assessments of the situation are made, they did not take into account the comments and suggestions of the profession. The planned changes, such as the introduction of a school curriculum, a compulsory other foreign language, the reduction of elective courses, the reduction of the possibility of extended stay, the abolition of general learning success and many others, can have a profound impact on the quality of education and education and therefore require thorough reflection and the full responsibility of the State to parents and their young hopes. Certainly, one of the more radical changes is the proposed funding of departments according to the number of children, which means a higher number of children in the teaching department, which in our opinion means another step in the decline of quality education. Does it no longer claim that it is easier and more effective to provide knowledge in a smaller group, as it is only by doing more active work with all and each individual? Administrative measures also affect the reduction in the number of prolonged-stay departments and the reduction in the age of children eligible for schooling after school. We must be aware that extended stay does not only mean protecting children because of the work obligations of parents, but that quality leisure is also beneficial in terms of complementing education and education. Therefore, this part of the school programme must remain at the same quality level as the current extended stay programme. News on the subject of choice is very surprising and it is completely incomprehensible why something changes or takes away from children that is kind to them, which has already made them happy and motivated in such an overly uniformed school. The applicant shall state among the reasons for the reduction of the number of hours of elective subjects, inter alia, the reason for the overload of pupils. However, the real reason for the overload does not concern the choice of subjects, but the fact that new substances are added to the curriculums is that the learning materials have moved to the content by a class or more lower. The comparison between the learning substance of two years of older pupils, who are already a generation of eight-year primary school, with nine-year-old students clearly indicates the fact that the contribution of the various education gaps between them, but also to the fact that there is an increasing transfer of substances which, at the level of understanding, are inappropriate for pupils of certain ages to lower classes. And that's how we think about learning, because the essences of the substance are children who can't understand, and we think it's too much to talk about what it means in the long run. Next. Finally, reducing the number of hours of elective courses means that children from a socially less favourable environment will be deprived because they will not be allowed to participate in those areas that they enjoy at school. They will also be prevented from acquiring this knowledge outside the school. These and other proposed changes to school legislation are certainly not designed with the objectives of the school, by child measure, and the pressure to save on children and youth is therefore even more incomprehensible. Despite some of these concerns about the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act, we will also further support the proposed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The position of the National Community will be presented by Ambassador Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you. Nice greetings to ministers and coworkers, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the law brings alignment with the new knowledge of science on education and education and the strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the orientation of the Lisbon strategy. The proposal thus explicitly sets out two general objectives, namely education and education for lifelong learning and sustainable development, and introduces the concept of quality education. Some other important goals have been added, namely the development of positive self-images, behaviour about natural heritage, entrepreneurship and physical and moral development. The amendments and additions to the law are intended to allow more autonomy for schools and thus facilitate the organisation and implementation of the educational work. The proposal allows primary school within the legal framework to independently establish a curriculum with rules of school order, house order, school publication, award procedure and the withdrawal of the status of a student who is being educated in parallel. In addition to the already prescribed ingredients, mandatory and selective items shall also be identified in the subject matter. Hours of Slovenian and Italian or Hungarian in national mixed areas, mathematics and foreign language as a compulsory subject may otherwise be distributed only in a shorter period, limited to two weeks. This will enable schools to organise learning more flexibly, project work and interdisciplinary integration. The introduction of another foreign language as a compulsory transfer to primary school seems necessary because flexibility and mobility are modern life, but children who are unable to master two foreign languages should be taken care of. They should also have access to primary education. The knowledge of the student would be evaluated in the first period by descriptive assessments and in the second and third periods by numerical estimates. The school will no longer determine the student’s overall success at the end of the school. I believe that this is a loss and this overall success should be maintained. But top-level funding is very dangerous for small schools. I think it would be necessary to bear in mind that we would not have to drop out of small schools, because funding by majors is going that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Respectable. The School Basics Act sets out the objectives of primary education, the curriculum, the programme, the subject, the curriculum, the planning and organisation of work in primary school, the rights and duties of pupils, the field of examination and evaluation of knowledge, the advancement of pupils, the provision of certificates and the management of personal data sets, and of course the law also contains criminal provisions for violations of the law. The area of education and education is very complex, especially now that many concepts are being identified in the broader environment, when we are talking about lifelong learning, formal learning, informal learning and so on. These concepts also require reflection on the incorporation of these concepts into our educational space. The Basic Law on Primary School was passed in 1996, and since then the international environment, part of which has become Slovenia, has emerged and developed new, more modern approaches in science and education. As a result, the new objectives of the European Union in the field of education and education, which we have also adopted in our documents adopted in the National Assembly, are in line with the Lisbon Strategy. The source of the development vision of Slovenia and the European Union as a knowledge society is man as an autonomous individual with his values and culture. And this individual must be able to develop freely his or her abilities and take responsibility for his or her economic progress and social well-being. Article 2 of the Law Amendment is therefore complemented by the objectives of education and education for lifelong learning and sustainable development, the development of positive self-image, behaviour on natural heritage, entrepreneurship and innovation, physical and moral development. The introduction of such objectives is a condition for us to raise and educate responsible citizens, confident, with a positive self-image, as the positive self-image of students is essential in the school system. Modern research shows that positive self - imagery is also associated with high learning success. The school needs to develop all areas of self-image that contribute to the creative design of a positive self-image and, as a result, to greater learning success. Appropriate approaches can be used to prevent conditions both for the development of too low and for the development of too high a positive self-image. Both forms are expressed in inappropriate forms of emotion, motivation and behaviour, resulting in behavioural, learning and personality problems. Too low a self - image leads to various self - destructive acts, and too high in narcissism, selfishness, and self - exaltation. For example, we discussed this in the results of the international TIMS study when we found that our children are convinced that they are very good, that they know much, and the results of the study have not confirmed this. In the introduction, I said that the law lays down the subject matter of compulsory items. Article 16 of the current law states that the primary school for all pupils must teach from the following compulsory subjects: Slovenian language and Italian or Hungarian language in national mixed areas, foreign language, history, geography, civic education and ethics, mathematics, chemistry, biology, physics, visual education, music education, sports education, technical education and households. There are no five listed subjects that are currently being taught in the primary nine-year school: knowledge of the environment, society, science, technology and geography. However, the law contains subjects: geography and technical education which the subject does not know if there is no difference between geography and geography, if these are not two different subjects, why was it necessary to change the name? However, if more modern approaches required new content in the subject of geography, this is evidence that the law was made in the future without any knowledge of concepts, what and how it should be taught in a nine-year-old. The same can be found in technical education, which has become technology and technology. Did not the drafters of the Law on Primary School and the Law on Financing Education and Education even know what would be taught in a nine - year - old when both laws were written? The answer to that question would be interesting. However, the fact is that we have done something for which there were no grounds in the law or that we have broken the law because the subject, confirmed by the professional council, has introduced items that are not in the law and we have been doing them in school for years. The new law removes this non-compliance and clearly specifies which are the mandatory objects. The following are also selected subjects and the number of hours of teaching of selected subjects. We welcome the change in terms of reducing the number of electives to two, and only to three, as well as the change that does not limit the student in his choice, as provided for in the law in force, that he must choose the subjects from the natural technical set and the socio-humanist set, but that is left to him. He chooses what he wants, or it's not a choice anymore. In an individual class, the school may alternate the weekly number of hours of instruction for individual subjects, as specified by the subject, except for instruction in the Slovenian language and the Italian or Hungarian language in the national mixed areas, mathematics, foreign language as a compulsory subject and sports education. This will enable schools to organise learning more flexibly, project work and interdisciplinary integration and introduce new didactic approaches, thereby enhancing the student's knowledge and competence. With such changes, schools want to give more autonomy and thus make it easier to organise and carry out educational work. A more flexible organisation of school time is possible because it is in line with the White Paper and the Lisbon Strategy, and it also shows that the Minister trusts the principals, teachers and schools to do so well. In 1996, the Basic School Act abolished the conduct assessment, which also indicated the educational component of the school. The result is sometimes an assessment of the behaviour of children as part of an assessment of an individual subject, which should not be allowed. As a result of the lives of schools, students and teachers, as well as parents, changes in the environment, patterns of behavior, life in society, schools had to face educational procedures, resolve conflicts. Every school has handled this in their own way. It was left to them whether they decided to meditate, how to reward, how to solve problems, one or the other school for parents. It is therefore important that the novel introduces a chapter on the educational functioning of the school. However, educational activities are successful only when all actors are involved. Parents will also be involved in the planning of the educational work. Schools will then plan their work areas by means of a curriculum with rules of school order, house rules, school publication, the allocation process and the withdrawal of the student status, which is co-educated or the status of the athlete, the exercise of teaching and others. In this way, the school will set out, on the basis of legally determined objectives, in cooperation with parents and students, ways to achieve values, praises, recognitions, awards, types of educational measures. The curriculum shall be adopted by the Council of Schools within the same period and by the same procedure as the annual work plan. The procedures for the implementation of educational measures will be laid down by the Minister by means of a sub-legislative act. Where educational activities, procedures and measures defined in the curriculum and school rules fail to achieve their purpose, the student may be given a educational measure or a reminder. We talk a lot about school autonomy. Directors and teachers stressed that too many rules, too many provisions that are less appropriate for a particular environment, are less acceptable. After the novelty of the law, schools will have greater autonomy. They will be able to adapt their work according to the specifics of the environment and the specificities of the environment. The draft law provides that the knowledge of pupils in primary school shall be assessed in terms of descriptive or numerical terms and shall be evaluated in the first period by descriptive estimates and in the second and third periods by numerical estimates. The school will no longer determine general learning success after a new one at the end. Students who are educated in private primary school will receive certificates of evaluation, as defined in the programme under which they are educated. The bill also provides that the school will, upon completion of the course, notify the student of its participation in the school’s interests and other activities. This means shifting attention to children's strong or weak areas and focusing on individual student achievements and support for talented students and assistance for less successful ones. Perhaps we could accept the thesis that the overall learning success for the child is a motivation to make a greater effort in a particular subject so that it does not ruin its final success. But it is likely that more damage to the student’s self - image was done when the student, who excelled in natural sciences, damaged his success with a lower grade in a social class. The trend towards the abolition of general learning success has already been marked by the adoption of the Basic Law on Primary Schools, when general learning success was abolished in the first triad of the nine-year-old. And here we can ask ourselves: Are children therefore less motivated to work and progress? No, no, no. Examples from other countries where they do not know the general educational success show that their students do not have problems with self - image and motivation. In addition, the Rules on the Verification and Evaluation of Knowledge states that pupils' overall success shall be determined by taking into account final evaluations in all subjects. In determining overall success, however, students' achievements in competitions, their attitude towards school obligations, their efforts in learning and their active participation in interesting and other activities shall also be taken into account. We know from practice that in most cases only final evaluations are taken into account in all subjects, but not everything else that is stated in the Regulation and could be taken into account. Novela introduces a second foreign language as a compulsory object. If we look at which choice items are decided by children in most cases, we will find that they make majority decisions for another foreign language. When changing the environment, globalisation, promoting mobility, such a trend is normal or normal and only eight primary schools in Slovenia are not in the selection of other foreign language subjects. Also, in recent years the number of language schools has increased, both for children and adults. And parents often decide with their children to study and attend language schools, which is a huge cost to them. It is also appropriate that a student attending a music school may, at the request of his parents, be exempt from participation in selected subjects. Music school is a huge burden for students, but it is important that we pay great attention to it because music education is an important educational factor, a student learning perseverance, planning his time, patience. In Slovenia, where there is a very lively and active development in cultural and other societies, and consequently in the domestic environment and the country as a whole, young people with music knowledge are an important enrichment of this space. In this way, we encourage talented students. Already, it is the school’s duty to identify and encourage talented students; we know who the ambassadors of countries in the world are. More often than politicians, they are athletes, culturers and musicians. Also, the provision that a child in the lower classes could not be evaluated negatively or could not repeat a class was the smallest service to the student himself, who thus even the elementary school faced low grades, thereby necessarily losing his confidence and conviction that he knew something and knew something and might be able to gain a job in which he would succeed. Similarly, it was difficult to understand that a student could not be trained if his parents did not agree, if this meant a change for him, but would get another chance to get rid of the labels given to him in a given environment that could never be disposed of again or only rarely. The amendment of the law lays down penalties for offences where the school does not carry out educational work to the extent specified in the relevant and educational plan or in accordance with the annual work plan and educational plan, provided that it does not carry out educational work for pupils with special needs and in accordance with the guidance decision, if it rejects the entry of a child from its school environment or does not keep the prescribed databases. The solutions brought by the new law on primary school are the result of meetings and meetings, opinions and proposals of the professional public, directors, teachers, parents and children, local communities, as well as discussions on various topics in the State Council, councils and round tables organised by various organisers. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we welcome the amendment of the Basic School Act, which has emerged on the basis of new knowledge and coordination, and we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. My friend Ziherl. I thought for the last half hour you were just talking about having something to say. [[No, no, ……]] Then I apologize. The position of the SD Group will be given by Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Dear Members and Members! The Group of Social Democrats will not support the proposed amendment to the Basic School Act. This fact has been known to the Minister and his co-workers since 11 June, when we also made this official in the framework of the development partnership. We have mentioned three fundamental reasons why we believe that this law cannot be supported if it does not undergo significant changes to the second reading. That is, the law is not partnerly coordinated, it has no consensus, it has no professional public, it has no trade unions, it has no professional analysis of the situation, at least not so as to be credible. And we believe that what is enshrined in the draft law in the chapeau, which is an essential component of the law for the fact that the law is even suitable for consideration in the National Assembly, cannot replace in-depth professional analysis. And the third observation is that there is no analysis of the effects of the proposed changes. Let me first explain what is written in the introduction to the law. For Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, comparisons have been made for four elements: evaluation and promotion, flexible subjects, selectivity, foreign language and subject, while for Austria, Hungary, Poland, Lithuania and Cyprus only comparative data for educational measures and training. I would like to remind the Director-General of Secondary Education that I would expect more from him on the second occasion to take into account Slovenian because the tables in the introductory text contain English records and the letter Č is an essential component of the alphabet of the Slovenian language. With regard to other matters, I would like to mention that in this mandate we have discussed five amendments to the Law on Primary Schools, four novels of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we have discussed twice the appointment of directors and professional councils, we have discussed the incomplete analysis of the achievements of international verifications. I don't mention any other school laws. The general impression is that we have never talked about proposals for laws that would support the professional public and would be based on in-depth analyses. But let me just say one more general thing before I go into specialty. Social Democrats are considered a high-quality public school for public good, and we therefore expect that any intervention in an organised system of knowledge-building and publicly recognised education will be a deliberate and weighed action. Since the Slovenian public opinion has demonstrated a high level of confidence in educational institutions on multiple measurements, it is important to ask why such extensive and so frequent changes and additions to the primary school law are again enforced without the support of the general public, especially in the absence of a public vote. Let me add the experience that the changes introduced show often unexpected bad effects or the effects that the opposition has been alerting to. The proposed amendment to the law is the fifth in this mandate, but it is indeed the first to be dealt with on a regular basis, allowing for at least general treatment in the context of this first one that is taking place today. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this cannot replace a public presentation of opinions or a genuine public debate. If the changes are opposed to so many key school policy makers and in particular school practice, the requirements for the extension of the public debate should be heeded, but not kept repeating the number of talks. 50 talks, which the Minister repeats, which remains indefinable, how many discussions were informative, how many discussions were about the issues, how many coordinations were there, how much time were there to discuss the comprehensive text of the law, the time to make comments and, in particular, how many comments were taken into account, cannot convince that an agreement has been reached between all partners. Social Democrats, however, are convinced that public education, and in particular not a compulsory primary school, cannot be the subject of every political option and its coalition contracts, but that the national consensus must govern society on what kind of primary school we want. I would like to point out that we need to find a common answer to the question of which primary school we want. We need to agree on this as a consideration of the value, i.e. equivalent partners, because knowledge is a constitutional element of all progress. We therefore insist that this amendment of the law should give clear answers to the questions which analysis of the existing situation has been carried out and who was their carrier, whose professional basis is essential for change and, above all, a clear analysis of the expected effects. We cannot ignore the fact that, at the time of the launch of the mandate, we have listened to Minister Beast's assurances that he will: "I have also made public several times that, as long as I become Minister of Education and Sport, I do not intend to radically interfere with such a sensitive system as the school system, the system of the social subsystem that forms, forms people, personalities and any reckless intervention in such an important area may have catastrophic consequences." [[...]] I hope you still think so, Mr. Secretary-General. Practice then showed promise in a completely different light. Not too beneficial of the achievement of primary schools and primary schools that we discussed in the National Assembly before the final assessment was made, the minister used for some major interventions in primary school. Of course, it is not possible to say that everything was unacceptable, but changing school legislation has become a school case of how it should not be handled when it comes to matters that have long-term effects. In doing so, it should be noted that there is a fundamental difference in the concept of school. The constant repetition of the issue of the need to introduce the same criteria in school as in the economy, i.e. understanding of school as a business, of course puts rationalisation at the forefront, the interest of the founder over public interest and the interest of the profession, that we do not talk about the role of social partners, parents and children at all. Social Democrats are advocating a quality public school, and the proposaler also claims that quality is first enshrined in the law. True, there is also quality among the objectives of the primary school in Article 2. The first objective is now included in this word and now the first objective is to "provide quality general education to all the population". The question is, however, which measures set out in the proposed amendment make this possible. What is more, the consequences of the proposed amendments to the law, which will be the subject of item 2 of the agenda. The districts of the Ministry of Education and Sport do not indicate this tendency either. It is necessary to ask whether the only criterion still in force in this country is the Lisbon Strategy and, if any, the first or the second. What experts have been co-forming the revised objectives? What measures have been proposed to achieve the objectives? How do these objectives appear in the text of individual articles? How will we achieve the first objective if we eliminate general success and thus encourage learning and achieving better success also in subjects that are not individual's first choice, if we reduce selectivity and thus encourage the development of express abilities and inclinations, two completely conflicting solutions. We have no answer to the question, by which criteria, for example, the attendance of a music school replaces an elective course, such as attending a ballet school. Will there be more forms of out-of-school activities not taking place within the primary school? We don't know. However, we believe that this has opened up a space for the education of primary school, i.e. for the integration of any forms of activity that are not taking place within the framework of an organised public school programme. The amendments introduced by the bill have been mentioned several times in the presentations of the parliamentary groups today, and we cannot say that we are opposed to the proposed changes in the Group of Social Democrats. We certainly are not opposed to those relating to a flexible subject, since we were, not least with some other parliamentary groups, proposing a special law that would have introduced it a long time ago, but we have received an answer that, in a substantive sense, this is quite good, but it is not in the concept and it is not the right time to introduce something like this. Why, then, other partial solutions that we have witnessed in the past? Managing the teaching of Slovenian for children of foreigners involved in primary education is the right and duty of those who come to Slovenia and want to join the Slovenian society. However, the task of the State is to enable immigrant children to learn Slovenian in accordance with certain other laws. What Social Democrats miss in this law is that the state is the one that will finance Slovenian courses before entering primary school in order to ensure that students have as much solid basis for accepting learning content. Colleague Breda Pečan, who asked the Minister of Education this question yesterday, did not exactly receive an answer that would point to a systemic reflection on this solution and provide solutions in this law. However, some environments are already well faced with this problem. The study of selection subjects is more than just a classification of selection items in two groups: a group of socio-economic subjects and a group of natural subjects. Things relating to the selection items in this proposal of the law are not well resolved at a time when the scope of selection decreases when the second foreign language is introduced as one of the options for the replacement of the electorate. In another foreign language, given that knowledge of foreign languages is a necessity that we are already living with, we will have to live even more in the future, that is a fact. Recently, we received information on how many foreign languages our students and students learn in high school. 1.6 of the foreign language and we belong to the EU Member States around the centre. In any case, the goal should be for every young person to have a good grasp of two foreign languages. And the second question is, which foreign languages will that be? Will we also take care of the knowledge of those languages that are languages in our immediate neighborhood, or will we take care of those languages that we consider to be "lingua franca" instead of the former Latin? Talking about other changes that have already been recorded in the Thesis would be good. Allow me to touch at least one more, these are questions of the curriculum. The General Education Council also had a number of concerns regarding the curriculum. While I received a few places to ensure that the differences between school curricula will not be so great that a child who will be trained from one school to another will have some major problems or obstacles in the new environment. However, it is not possible to get rid of the educational plan of the feeling that all too much of what is left to the regulation of sub-laws is the right to lay down sub-laws and that the minister has the right to do so. And this is where the fundamental question arises. If, in fact, increasing autonomy is one of the global objectives, so to speak, of regulating the school field of this ministry, let us look closely at the law's proposal, how many powers the minister has retained and how many actual autonomy is left to the school environment, especially if we weigh what the local environment can do with each changing local policy in such a sensitive segment as primary school. The question of which there are no appropriate answers, even in the framework of the primary school law, is much too much for the Social Democrats to press the "yes" button when deciding whether the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you, too. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members, and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u153	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Must be something that we can all talk about from our point of view. The school is one of the most fundamental constituent elements of each society and, of course, teachers as well. Teachers are undoubtedly given to manage something that represents priceless wealth from a national point of view, saying, the family of young citizens and citizens. And from how much they learn and how they are brought up, in addition to what their parents give them, of course, this is also the most important thing, how a nation will find its way of life and how it will deal with common matters. If teachers are good, bad marriages do not mean such a great disaster, and this can also be seen in recent years. I am sure that in this area we have made quite a few bad decisions over the past ten years, but they did not reflect so badly on the school system itself, because teachers have somehow compensated for their work; later I will return to what I mean when I say this. As far as these changes are concerned, I would like to make a change, a more thorough one, because what we have before us is, in fact, more or less minor changes. I would like changes in this direction to make Slovenian school cheaper. For we all say that it should be free, free cannot be because nothing is free, but it could be cheaper, more rational. In order for our students to be burdened at this school, I am one of those who claim that our children in school are overloaded, that they do not have time to play when they come from school or when the school is finished, they are busy with various activities. Well, not just them. Even parents who are sometimes on schedule now to this activity, now to that, now to the third. There's more and more, and I think it's too much. To improve education in schools alone is primarily to give teachers the reputation that they have been deprived of for a decade. And if a teacher or a teacher doesn't have the proper reputation, then he's having a hard time raising. And here in this law comes something where a teacher can also use some mechanisms and thus somehow consolidate his position. To teach more students in schools, especially in the field of the management of practical knowledge, this also seems to me to be one of the attitudes of this law. In short, if I were to conclude that the Slovenian school would become an excellent, kind school to become what we all want. And here we have these patterns of seeing or thinking about what they're supposed to be. And this was also seen here in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Most of the time there were no constructive suggestions, but more of a form of opposition, even in some segment of insults and some demagogic Flossules, creating some impression that if you're against that, then you're on the right track. I don't think that's the right way. I would be more pleased with some constructive proposals on what is proposed. If I go in line. I've heard that 13 organizations in this area are against it. I have not deepened into this myself, I am not a member of this committee, here now that I am listening to the debate, but I find it difficult to understand that they are against, if this law gives more autonomy to the organisation of the school, if this autonomy can somehow be regulated according to the specificity of the environment and if this law introduces a more flexible subject. I don't know why we'd be against it. As the mayor of one of the municipalities, I want this, and in this I am reading some possibility that we will be better able to negotiate for school transport and that we may also be able to arrange something through this segment in such a way that we can "screw" something, if I say so. School transport is extremely expensive for municipalities in the rural part of Slovenia. Local congregations are not affected, but rural congregations pay a great deal. And if we could achieve something in schools where there are more schools in the congregation with the flexibility of the subject and with greater autonomy in the organization itself, then I can only say hello. I don't know if we are, but it's gonna be an obvious day in the marriage. Next. It is difficult to understand why these 13 organizations are against the idea of building up a school of reputation and efficiency. I don't know, they're going to have to argue more. It's not enough to say they're against it. The introduction of the curriculum and the educational programmes is by all schools, and we now find in the countryside that these things are getting out of hand, that they have become teachers of a variety of student victims who are after some time not to say what. And it has to end in some way. During the time of Minister Gabra, certain rules were adopted, which more or less introduced only rights and no obligations, no duties. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's not going to work. Each student needs to know on the one hand what obligations are and on the other hand what obligations are. I couldn't believe it was during a period of time, because now it's fixed that the children were making up sacred institutions. That the members of the Board of the Institute of High Schools were, I don't know, other high schools and that they could vote in secret whether or not that director would vote there. The students cannot judge because it will always be so that the one who is strict will get a non-voting vote, but the one who is kind, yielding will get a yes. And we've changed that once before, and I remember this debate, and so are you, and that was wrong. This was introduced when the Minister was that gentleman who is sitting here with us today as a Member. Introduction of another foreign language. I don't know. Here are the arguments for and against. Probably for those who are learning a little more difficult, indeed, extra effort, and most children are already doing so by paying the other foreign language back to the congregations. If the state pays them through the program, I can't be against it. By the way, we learned Serbian-Croatian in our youth. I don't even know where or when. Today, the children of this language no longer know this language. Let's just say it's not that foreign language that thinks it's other foreign languages that are meant, O. K. All right. But a kid learns his tongue when he's small, by the way. The problem is learning a language after 40 years. As far as the abolition of general learning success is concerned. Here, Mr. Minister, I would advise you to think about it a little longer. I'm not personally up for this. I can see that students are very happy, if they are excellent, they like to come to the reception as well. And that's kind of, I'd say, a crown at the end of the year to sort out. One's better, one's less. However, excellent success can often be achieved even with kindness, not only with wisdom. My grandmother used to say that she was studying with an ass, which meant she had to sit down a lot. It is said that someone who is less talented can also achieve excellent success with interest. But I agree there's more good people every year. That I won't be too long. I think it's very good that you gave the music school as a substitute for a selection class. I would like to once here, what I thought today I would hear from the opposition parliamentary groups, but nothing was problematic, so I will mention that I will give them a chance. So a believer as an object, those parents who just want it. About this, we are one of the few countries in Europe, I think Albania is just beside us. And just for the record, of course our school will act like a school if we have enough kids. It's very exciting that after 10 years of birth last year, I think I read 700 more children than I did last year. This gives me hope that schools on the outskirts of Slovenia will not be closed in the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you, too. But to my word, I'd like to invite a magician. Branca Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. It seems very unusual to me that a law that is good and well - prepared will have such a major public controversy. Although I firmly believe that the core of this story, which we have witnessed in the past and even in these days, is not in the law that we are currently considering, but in what follows – it is the Law on Financing Education and Education. You have convinced me about this on your own because in the introduction, virtually all the representatives of the opposition have already referred to the law on financing education and education, even though this is not the time for discussion. It is interesting, though, that the chairman has not once reminded you of this. But it's okay. We are now talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act. The law in this case means, first of all, coordination with the Lisbon Strategy and therefore I would expect, given that the European orientation of our country is a consensus between political parties, that there will also be consensus here, because it is a matter of putting the Lisbon Strategy at the core of a more personal responsibility of a free individual who decides autonomously and freely and educates himself in accordance with his duties and with his beliefs or the beliefs of his parents when it comes to a child, on the basis of everything that the country gives him. Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds, as you all know. Of course, it is about enabling education in the best possible way, under conditions that are in line with the possibilities and given, and in particular with the requirements and challenges of modern society. What I see as the core of these changes is the greater autonomy of schools themselves and of all other institutions concerned by this law. In this work, I must say that I would again expect a universal consensus and support for this law. It is said that education and education should be as autonomous as possible. In this case, when it comes to a law that actually provides for and gives special powers to individual schools, of which in the past they may have dreamed more or less of fully deciding even the allocation of hours, they may, to a certain extent, also within one framework given by law, change the relationship, with the exception of those key subjects that the law also defines in this part, as it is said, because of something that is explicitly in the public interest, is explicitly in favour of parents, it is explicitly in favour of children, expected consensus. But there's no consensus. On the contrary, the whole storm has risen and the only thing I can ask myself is what these people are really afraid of. But I think the answer is simple. Greater autonomy also means more responsibility. And it's obviously a single fear, a fear of responsibility. The fear that has been caused in my opinion over the years and decades. But this fear is over, because Slovenia is part of the European Union today, it is establishing modern education, and to a large extent this has already been done by the current government. Public opinion polls show that the level of trust and support for this system has increased to the greatest extent possible and that it is at the very top of those who enjoy the highest level of trust. This does not mean, of course, that it is a system that never needs to be changed, that it is an inert system, that it is a system that can be left somewhere at a developmental level decades ago or more. The fact that changes are needed has also been recognized in recent years. There was a white book. Much of what we are discussing today and what will also be the subject of the next law is written in this white book. And then there was a whole other government. Now, when it comes time to realize these starting points, this is a problem. It is said that there was little time for public debate. However, there are starting points that are more than a decade old, there in 1996, if we are precise. In this part, as we say, I would expect a consensus. If there is any attempt to create the appearance that anything is problematic here, then it should be taken as a starting point, that something is problematic in schools themselves, those to whom we now exercise confidence, which we give them more freedom, more responsibility and thus more opportunities for their own self-implementation. No one can get the authority from the laws, no one can give it to a minister, but everyone can create it with their own work. I submit that this law establishes a situation where schools and teachers can do more for themselves than ever for their reputation by their hard and professional work, and that is why I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. When I listened to the debates of individual Members of the opposition's groups, somehow I was reminded of the adoption of school legislation a good decade ago. At that time, I was also in politics at the local level, and we actually faced this situation and were quite disappointed many times. The general assessment at the time was that the position and school authorities at the time challenged all the proposals that had anything to do with the ideology that was not on the left-hand line of liberal doctrine. Every talk about education, values, religion, the plurality of ideas has been suppressed. However, I am not one of those who would speak only poorly and negatively about everything that the previous government has accepted. Therefore, I am convinced that slightly greater school legislation corrections are necessary because experience has shown that some solutions do not meet today's challenges: the flexibility of the subject, the education of children without the consent of parents, the importance of foreign languages, the autonomy of the school and other things in these changes that may be almost necessary. I am confident that in the next debate, the proposed changes will prove appropriate or that we will all gather together as much strength and coordinate on such important issues as education and, I stress, the upbringing of our children. I believe that the proposal for a basic school law is a suitable basis for further consideration and I will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Sam Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Each time, and this applies to all systems, it has very great temptations and ambitions to reform everything that is reformed yes, including the school system. Either at the actual level or at least at the symbolic level. In high school, I started attending high school. But I ended up at the school center. Then I began to attend the University of Ljubljana, I graduated from the University of Edward Cardell. In the early 1990 ’ s, our congregation was renamed primary school because the then majority of local authorities were not even thought to be the coastal national hero Janko Premrl Vojko. Names by deserving Slovenian men are still valid today. Of course, women, as usual, remain in safe haven. At the presentation on the parental committee at the end of November 2004, the Minister of Education, Dr. Milan Zver, said that he would not undertake too many reforms. Allow me to quote Minister Dr. Beast, I quote: "I have also repeatedly expressed publicly that, as long as I become Minister of Education and Sport, I do not intend to intervene radically in such a sensitive system as the school system, the system, the social subsystem that forms, forms people, personalities. And any reckless intervention in such an important area can have disastrous consequences." End of quote. Well, at that point, I was thinking, finally, someone who doesn't have any idea of a place to live. I would like, but not just in the field of education, to be able to adopt legislation for at least one social subsystem that should not be changed every few years. Among other things, the new law entails compulsory learning of another foreign language. The explanation of the law states that the applicant follows the 2002 recommendations of the European Council, which recommends that basic skills should be improved, in particular by teaching at least two foreign languages at the earliest possible date. I agree that school curricula allow and offer students the opportunity to learn at least two foreign languages at the time of compulsory education. Or it must become a legal obligation, but it is already another issue. Not all children are gifted to learn foreign languages, so we add a new burden to them. In addition to mathematics, which is the most popular subject, in second place is Slovenian, and immediately after the mother tongue follows foreign language, we now attach a compulsory second language to the scale of unpopular objects. If this isn't a new burden on school children, Mr. Minister, I think you'll find it difficult to convince me otherwise. Not everyone will study for doctors, lawyers and pilots or become high officials of the European Union or even diplomats. In addition, I must encourage and develop other talents. Someone is talented for various sports disciplines, others for art and drawing, and so on. In my opinion it is necessary to learn foreign languages, and I absolutely agree with that, but I am a great skeptic, whether compulsory learning of two foreign languages is necessary and the best marriage solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Franca Znidarsich. [[He's not here.]] Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, also greeting everyone at the Gallery of the National Assembly! Today's amendment to the Basic School Act is being addressed among Members who have already given this primary school through and who as parents still have this pleasant duty, perhaps even among those who are still awaiting it in the future. I think that what has already been said in the debate and the views of the parliamentary groups today is a considerable difference, which, of course, is not good, is not good for such an important law as the Basic School Act. There are therefore some concerns about the opinions of some parliamentary groups. However, my personal opinion is, as well as the parliamentary groups, that the law brings some novelty, some positive changes that are the result of some new knowledge, a new time, not least on the basis of good practice, which experts in this area have significantly better than our Members, both in practice and in theory. Finally, the performers themselves, and not least the European practices of the people, the countries we are also trying to imitate in a good way. Whether all of this in this novel is what we all want together, the best elementary school or not, is a matter of discussion here in Parliament. This is where we decide whether it is or not. I believe that the first debate, we have such and different views, will probably be expected to come to another for a while. This is also a permanent practice which I hope will, at least, be heard, and we will get an even better case in this matter concerning primary schools of everyone in our beautiful country. It was a show of the law. We could read a lot in the media, listen to stories, it was written a lot. All right. Finally, we are talking about primary school law, a novel that touches anything between us, among our children, among our teachers, principals, etc. That's why I think it's right that there's enough discussion on this subject, enough debate, because after all it's not every law, but it's the primary school law that we're talking about education and education. I don't have any questions about education. This matter is very proper, professional, and also as a parent, I have good experience. Perhaps education is a little less, and perhaps that is why we are trying so hard in time, so fast, because parents, many parents, have too little time to raise their children. And maybe a part of that education, nice or ugly, would pass on more education to elementary school. There are our children most of the day, most of the day they spend in primary school when they are not parents with them when they are not. Sadly, many parents do not have time for training because they are simply not at home because they are forced to do their work, their obligations, and their differences. And maybe this part of being able to take the school more and I as a parent would be even more positive and I would expect it. But what kind of school do I want? Not exactly the way my kids used to go, but not the way they are today, where my kids go, but somewhere in between. I'd pick up the good solutions from my school, the good ones from today's school, and put it together for the best school. Is that possible or impossible? It's probably possible if you're willing enough. And it would probably be good to have a school like this and to have the best school for all citizens and citizens. That's probably what all parents want, that's what all teachers want. Finally, local communities play an important role in financing primary schools. My colleague in front of me was talking about school transportation. It's a story that's not best-deserved. Not at all. It is not evenly distributed across all Slovene municipalities, etc., that I do not talk about the rights of parents to transport a school child, when, where and so on. There are things that aren't most accurate. What's the dangerous way to school, ladies and gentlemen? Every trip to school is dangerous. It's a long mile or four kilometers. Crossing the road is a dangerous journey to school, walking on sidewalks is less dangerous than walking where there are no sidewalks. There are a lot of inconsequential things here, and of course parents today are a little bit of their own imagination and literally blackmailing local communities for some additional conditions, and today we have many more of these school transports than if the distance is 4 kilometers from school, which is a minimum condition. But this is already another story that today does not have a theme in this area, but of course it is also very important to finance the elementary school. I hope to say that in today's debate and these concerns that some have, I have myself, Mr Minister and the team. One foreign language is mandatory today. My experience shows that the gentleman of another foreign language is a very poor demand for our children. This means that children do not want any more foreign languages. On the contrary, no. And it usually shows that demand is extremely low. Today, we want to introduce this as a mandatory subject. Whether that's good or bad, I have very serious concerns, and I wonder if it's really good for us to make it legal and have another subject to be bound. We are aware of the importance of foreign language, for sure. This is, of course, an absolute or two foreign languages, enough for our children. Does this relieve our children? Are they so capable that they too will be able to handle it well? This is a dilemma that I always leave to the profession, and I'll say who probably knows it better than I do. But as a parent and as a Member, I wonder if this additional enforcement is meaningful, smart and also appropriate. In the end, I agree that the novel brings a lot of positive news, good news, of course I will support them and I think it is appropriate for the next reading, with the desire, I repeat, with the desire that through the amendments, no matter where they come from, we try to correct this story until the next second reading and make such a basic school law, which will be as large as possible to Members, especially users, what are students, teachers and parents, as acceptable as possible. This is probably what the Minister himself wants, the Ministry, and I believe that most Members as well, and I hope that we are on the right track with these corrections, with this debate going on for a while now, we will find the best law, a novel that will give even better results to primary schools, all those who are somehow involved in this important story. Because at the time of basic education, personalities are formed, in the most friendly way possible, in a European comparable way and which will also place this Slovenian practice in this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you, too. The next one is Member Aloise Posedel. [[He's not here.]] Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I've heard from advocates that the law gives greater autonomy. For autonomy, as stated in the law, you could say that it also puts responsibility on someone else, because either the minister or the ministry can't do something, and he says, we give you autonomy, and you find yourself alone because we don't know it. I wonder, however, how it is possible for primary schools to take into account the different impacts and specificities of the environment in shaping the educational process, how this can be implemented in practice. For example, in Maribor there are different primary schools, different environments, in some there are more crime, in others less, one has such a specialty, the other different. On the other hand, I wonder if in Ljubljana they will already be raising managers in primary school, in Maribor bankruptcy managers, and elsewhere. In practice, I find this very difficult to imagine. Second, the abolition of general learning success. When it comes to success, parents often put pressure on their parents. And finally, how can parents then know how much our child really can do. I have a daughter in the second grade, and I have to say that I have to read about it three times, that I know whether my daughter controls or does not control or controls little or how much she controls, except that I finally read it progresses. And I think so. If you stop this now at the end of a nine-year-old, it'll be a mess. As far as another foreign language is concerned, I agree that after 40 years it's getting harder, but this government has already established that the Alpha state is after 40. But in principle, I have no problem with the introduction of another foreign language. I believe that all children will be happy to follow him, but do not defend the introduction of another foreign language by making the 40th harder and harder in life. Besides, I have some time left, and I hope to make a very varied use of it. I'm more worried, Minister, about another matter when we're talking about primary education. This is a politicisation that began to occur primarily under your umbrella when you took over the ministry or this government took over to exercise in its own hands in this country - politicization in primary schools, various manipulations with directors, secret meetings in secret locations. It's more of a worry that bothers me at the elementary school itself. But what I would like to hear about introducing a specific environment into the curriculum is what it will look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I would like to say that I picture the change in basic education legislation as a process that must be extremely precise and, above all, well-founded and, last but not least, coordinated among all those working in this area. If any area, then of course this area cannot be left to the current political needs, interests, orientations, because it is our youngest and, ultimately, also parents who often do not have enough time to follow all these changes, let alone children who are then involved in all these processes than those most exposed to all these changes. We can understand from these procedures that this is, however, uncoordinated legislation, which I think is the greatest weakness and I think that is why it is also a completely inadequate approach to this important area. However, I would like to point out with concrete examples at least two facts, if we are already talking about public school and if we are talking about how to be as friendly as possible, then it is also appropriate to design a school programme and also to prescribe which subjects are compulsory. This law introduces two foreign languages, just from an explanation that you can understand in the law because the Council of Europe has adopted that the interests of the European Union should also be brought together in such a way as to learn as many languages as possible. Thus, in many directives and regulations of the European Union, we always try to find a solution that also reflects actual needs in some environment. I would also like to point out in particular the environment that faces everyday problems, if I may say so, barely provides for such staff in primary school as well as just the number of children, and because of these additional obligations, of course I am talking about public schools, which are significantly more burdensome and exposed than they have been so far. For the students themselves, we can talk here about a much greater burden than it was and it is in the current system, which is also the greatest disadvantage. I think that everyone can learn a lot in life also from the current learning of foreign language and the possibility of learning a foreign language, especially later in view of the needs that they actually have in life. I also have a problem with the fact that speaking of having two foreign languages in a public school, this does not apply to a private school. There can still be only one foreign language in private school, which I'm not getting along with. Maybe I'm wrong to imagine that if someone wants to have a private elementary school, then I'd expect that private person to offer something more, not something less. And here I find it a hidden or hidden activity to actually reduce the interest in entering public school, because this will be more difficult and, of course, opens the way to artificially creating the possibility of more children entering private schools at the expense of less quality. This is the solution that is in this law, I think, at least in my opinion, one of the worst, and I say that if anyone already wants to have a private school, then they should establish it in a way that proves to be better than a public school, not that by law we are actually reducing interest in public school and trying to open a less-quality private school way. Then there is no simple reason or solution to the corresponding interpretation in the law, for example, the extension of stay reduces the duration of extended stay, so far from the first to sixth classes, by allowing for extended stay from the seventh to the ninth classes. In the fact that children often do their homework at that time, they learn more, and not least, they also participate in cultural or sports programmes, which I think is not negligible if we monitor data on the state of this generation. Because organised sports education, and also some complementary activities that could be carried out during this period, will, of course, be even more distorted and young people will in fact be deprived of an organised offer, if you want to, if you only talk about sport, just a sport offer that is still important for the healthy development of children. So there's no explanation why from first to sixth grade extended stay falls to only first to fifth grade, but nothing is said from sixth grade forward. Two very simple cases, which point to the fact that the law is really not harmonised enough, are not well founded and I believe that such a law should not really be adopted in the National Assembly. Especially since we are talking about basic education, which is extremely important for the education of our youngest generations, of which, last but not least, we expect a lot in their mature age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I invite Member Slavko Gabra to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister and representatives and representatives of the Ministry! I am aware that harmonisation of legislation, especially school legislation, is a difficult task. It is virtually impossible to reach complete agreement on this. I believed that there was also almost complete disagreement among all those involved, both teachers, trade unions and their representatives, professions, associations, even almost impossible to achieve. Now I see that this can be achieved. This law that we have before us all opposes you. I'd be much better off on my own if it were reversed. At that time, I would believe that some of the solutions that are meaningful in this law that we have before us are on the right track to live in schools. Now I fear that even what is good will not find true support during the school administrations, because the school leaders clearly tell the minister: "We do not accept these laws." And this is reported, however, by the Minister, that there is a rumor around Slovenia, and I believe that you will respond by yes or no, that you and the Secretary of State have allowed yourself to call those who are supposed to sign this call for a quality public school and convince them not to sign it. I can't believe it could be true. But if it turns out to be true, well, I'll wait for your word, because we'll also check with others to see if it's true that you've done something like this. In short, there is no agreement on these issues. With this, you have embarked on a game that will be opposed by more people in a country with such well-known ministers as Minister Zupan and Minister Bručan, who are also very successful in recruiting those who are against the solutions they are proposing in this National Assembly. I hope that you will correct some of what is in the laws and that the situation will eventually be different. I'll start with what I think is good in marriage. The law brings a so-called flexible school schedule. I salute him. I think we could have had a little more courage and we could have taken a quarter of a step longer than you've done in what we have before us. Of course, I would expect much more courage on my own in the debate on what appears to be an improvement in Slovenian education. We have not been able to break through the philosophy point of how many hours it takes to work in school to achieve very good results if you want to. We don't have enough hours to do this in Slovenia. I say here that I will support the Minister if he takes this kind of thought. I also suggest that it does not extend the hours - I think in Article 14 it deals with this - compulsory for everyone, but, for example, by Finnish example, let those parents and children who choose to do so allow, for example, up to three hours more schooling. In this way it will not have to interfere with one of the best, most meaningful solutions to be built up in the existing system, that is to say, in the selections. Then he would not have the problem that he now has at the point of another foreign language and could introduce another foreign language without taking the hours of his first foreign language. While I would consider three times whether I would not, before prescribing it as mandatory, strengthen the incentives to increase the participation of children in another foreign language rather than prescribing it, because I am risking that a standard of foreign language knowledge will necessarily be allowed and I am risking that failure will be very high. So a little more courage in imagining what he's calling for ingenuity and yet, I think, hands away from reducing selectivity and introducing things in a reckless way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u168	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I think that both of these laws that we are going to deal with today lack one of the basic conditions that I think, as well as the opinions of many colleagues and colleagues who have spoken so far, which have discussed how to adopt legislation concerning the general public interest in this country, is the weakness of the lack of willingness on the part of the applicant, the Government or, in our case, the Minister for Education and Sport and his associates, to discuss, to negotiate, to negotiate solutions to the laws. I think it is a fine feature of a true democratic society that, when it comes to an express public interest, we need to talk to each other, listen to each other and, above all, listen to each other, and then everything that is truly coordinated, enters into the law, what is problematic, what is questionable, what the negotiators or those who are supposed to be involved in the talks warn that it is wrongly set up, but we take into account, because we cannot go past the fact that the Ministry of Education and Sport is talking with a pure profession. It is said with people who are not only experts at the theoretical level, but also experts in practical terms, it is said that they know well what is really good for them in their work with children, it is the subject of which and for which, these two laws are supposed to change, in fact, what is really good for them and what is not. Here, at least, it should be noted that there is a great question whether this abandonment of general schooling success, the identification of general school success is really as good a thing as we have heard today, the preservation or perhaps even the development of the image of a young person attending primary school. I am sure that my colleague, Slavinec, who has pointed out that a child who achieves very good success in one area is not very good in science, but in social science he is certainly able to achieve at least the average results in that area, which, after perhaps his genetic image, is not very close. Perhaps he is more inclined for one area of general education, but not for the other. But if he is extremely good in one area, it is really hard to believe that in another area he could not achieve at least average results. The identification of general learning success would, and this moment certainly, encourage it to also engage in activities, including in a field that is not so close to it. Now that the overall learning success has been resolved, this incentive will certainly cease. I think it is necessary to ask whether the self-image built on concealing bad results, poor general results, which even focuses on the fact that we do not need a whole area for general education in which humanity has created a wealth of knowledge and behaviour about humanity and nature for thousands of years, then I think that such thinking is certainly wrong. I would stop here, and I hope that we will still be able to convince the Minister and his colleagues and colleagues to agree that the law will be less radically affected by changes in the primary school system. However, I would also like to point out that, if the Ministry and Government are already encouraging the development of private primary schools, it would be very useful that the requirements for basic standards, for the implementation of basic standards for both forms of education, are exactly the same for public and private schools. If greater requirements are made for public schools, then it should be the same for private schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you very much. A respected council, a respected minister with co-workers! Due to the lack of time available to me, I will not discuss individual solutions to the bill, as this will be possible in future readings. However, I will touch on the conditions under which it emerged in a negative and extremely impatient climate caused by outside opposition experts and trade unionists. I would expect them to do just the opposite, creative and well-intentioned proposals and initiatives, but these are legal changes and decisions that are still important to our children and their European and wider education that is comparable to that of all of us parents and Members. That is why we need to ask ourselves today, above all, whether we need to make any changes, yes or no. Part of the professional public and some colleagues and colleagues and opposition have been quite upset by the amendments and additions to the primary school law, so I will initially take the thought that I quote: "Critiques are those who want to do something similar, but cannot, so they tell those who can, how they should." And I add, "Impatience is a bad counselor." The secretary of the union of education and education in public criticism of the supplementation of the law uses a difficult and insulting vocabulary, when suggestions are bizarre that the minister does not know what he wants, but creates a shit nest, the minister does not know what coordination is and so on. The secretary is the most passionate opponent in change. It argues that this is a poor public sector which will result in poorer quality of public education. It doesn't all hold. The public strongly trusts in education, and the public also supports change. According to the Eurobarometer, Slovenians trust primary school in second place in Europe and in kindergarten in third place in the European Union. Domestic research also shows that confidence in primary school was greatly raised during the term of Minister Zver, which is a consequence of his high rating. The claims that the public education system achieves its objectives and is effective, as stated by the president of the primary school principals' association, are incredible and suggestive of the deception and misdirection that has also been revealed by the International TIMS survey in the first half of 2005, the results of which our children's results have been devastating. For some, the time of sobriety and truth had come. I ask: To whom and to what do objections and sharp and persistent rejections necessarily serve the necessary changes to the law at all? I submit that they certainly do not serve the pluralisation of Slovenian education, which needs competitive models at all levels. Or some may interfere with the good results of private education because they claim that public education will reach the point where it will live and private education will produce an elite in power. Competition in education will in particular improve the quality of education. They do not serve teachers who for a long time have been publicly alerted to the fact that knowledge in chaos and disorder cannot be mediated by frantic opposition to the good and urgently needed changes in education. If they deal with order and discipline more than half the time and point to their infirmity, because, following the legislation adopted in previous mandates, there are no limits and no sanctions for inappropriate behaviour. Facing change does not serve children and their parents. It was the parents who began to warn the public that the so - called friendly school, with its rules, had brought many riots, non-discipline, and, at some point, violence. One of the critical experts who opposes changes in the law writes publicly, quote: "I agree that the authority of the teacher in the school is important. And he will create it with quality teaching, consistent conduct and bordering." End of quote. It does not say, however, that teachers cannot do more than what they can do at this time, because current laws and regulations do not provide formal conditions for the exercise of authority in school, so such seditions are purely misleading and misleading to the public. Amendments and additions as proposed are necessary and not in any future, but now not to say immediately if we are aware that delay will have irreparable consequences because we and we will rob young people of the right to good education, respect for values and deprive them of good education. And that is not the case, I myself will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u172	Mrs. Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister! That the law is actually politicized, is heard from rumors, when instead of listening to each other, we just yell at each other as someone is a "gold" because it is against the law. In this National Assembly, we will adopt this law or not accept it and answer for its consequences. Therefore, we have every absolute right to express all doubts, to express all the questions we have and then to decide. Every question we ask, but every doubt we have is, unfortunately, or on the contrary, just a target for bombing. The first question is why in such an important marriage; you know some education to change - it is so important matter, so difficult matter. Tell me why there was no public debate in this Chamber, where anyone could come into education and education and give their opinion on this law and exchange these opinions and form this law. I'm sorry, it wasn't there. Why not? There have been so many public debates about less important laws, and that was not the case. Second, what does "different educational program" mean? I'm not going into depth, I'm not going into microanalysis, but in this country there has to be a learning and training program to some extent the same. It has to be the same. But where we're going to come to teach something in the Upper duplex and to raise something different, and in the Rippers, it's different. What kind of curriculum, what kind of training program, what kind of school system is this? You're talking about association. It is generally known that the school system already exists, that if more children are in the classroom, quality is worse, harder teachers, teachers work with a large crowd, harder to devote to all children in this class. At the same time, the opposite is my tendency, which I welcome, after individual consideration. How can we imagine individual treatment in marriage with individual students, while increasing the number of students in the class. That, forgive me, is illogical to me. That is why I am expressing my opinions and my questions. That's illogical. It's a illogical assessment. Maybe it's a fashion fly. But a descriptive evaluation is a descriptive assessment. We have to have a comparison. The speaker said that there were so many criticisms because the success of private schools was so great. Would you please tell me, I'm asking, on what basis do you find that? On what basis do you find that success is better for students from private schools than for public schools? What are you comparing? With a descriptive evaluation? It's completely illogical. You understand that's illogical. We need two comparisons to know who's better, who's worse. Is it because he's in private school that he's automatically better? Who can judge him? A teacher from a public school can evaluate him and compare him to his student. Just say the word, because I'm from a private school, I'm better, but I'm not good, my dear fellows. It's not working. And the worst part is, putting an end to general learning success. Fine. We have a race formula one and everyone gets a prize, everybody gets a cup, you're all good, you're all capable of the next ride. By eliminating general learning success, shutting down will and desire to prove yourself, by comparison, if you wish for more. Turn it off. Because in the end, everyone will be happy to have the leaf because it will be as it was with the old army "number, capable". Where's the comparison? And now explain to me when we all get the "capable" sheet how the system will run forward when we enter high school. How? What will be the criteria, what conditions will be given for further education? And not just for high school, for further college. But it's so simple, ladies and gentlemen, but it's not working. These are doubts that need to be clarified, clarified and explained. However, we do have this right in this National Assembly. Otherwise, you can make your own laws. And don't talk now and politicize with something if we have any doubts. These doubts are, I hope that we will have concrete answers to them. And I'm just wondering what it's going to be like to get into high school and university ahead if we're all going to get a list for our children of "fitness". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u175	Dear Government! You have 40 minutes, and in those 40 minutes, I expect you to speak. It is time for us to address the question raised earlier: Is it true that you have put pressure on the signatories to non-governmental organizations? It came to my ears, too, and there was more than one hearing. Therefore, it is right to say whether you exerted pressure on those who think and think otherwise or who wanted to express their differing views and opinions. We heard today that we already have a new kind of profession. A year ago, a new term of the so-called profession was developed in these rooms. When we talked about the media, all those who questioned the solutions that the government came up with in the Tank way that they weren't real were named as so-called professions, university professors and someone else. Today we hear we have an opposition profession. Those who disagree or who want to make an argument to open up the issue of amendments to two important educational laws have become opposition experts who demand discussion and I argue once again that this debate is too small in the National Assembly, political discussion is too small here. We can't close questions that you haven't answered and find at least a certain consensus before. But I would like to touch another question at my disposal, which I think was too little. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] between such and different professions. [[...]] But he was, I think, one year of this in the State Council, exposed to public debate, which was in November 2005, entitled civic or domestic education. In this debate, where historians, especially historians, prevailed, it opened up, not for the first time, but for a clear enough dilemma, or to enforce national or domestic education into our learning processes. And today, we have legal and domestic education in both laws. Not but, but also. And so we have a new or additional learning class called Dom and the world or we know home and country. Because we have civic education and we have domestic education and ethics, as it was before. I don't mean to say that it's some kind of return to what was once said, how already, based on Marxism, self-management with the basis of Marxism. I do not want to say that this is yet another moment, when they are also very clearly placed in the right place in schools, supposedly symbols of national importance. However, I am asking a question that has been asked, as I say, a quick summary in practice, if civil or domestic education was still a question, and if problems have been raised over whether civil enough and domestic underage, they are now closing up very quickly and I doubt whether or not I am afraid of certain traps that such domestic education can bring if it is not the right measure of understanding and understanding. If we are talking about civic education as one who teaches critical thinking and learning about the social activities of all of us, people and civilisation in general, then I wonder if home education may not already be included in all the subjects we have: Slovenian language, history education, geography, sociology at a higher level, knowledge of the environment, society, history and history of art. Is it possible that he is not already consuming all the other subjects of certain content that I suppose you see through native education? The ease of such rapid adoption, perhaps today under-exposed, can be dangerous. It is for me, but you'll tell me it's because I'm thinking with the so-called logic of the opposition. But it is right to think here, because I fear the far-reaching consequences that such a solution can bring, and in the final stage, even extreme forms take place. Why am I afraid of them? It was because of this debate that I followed when it was on the agenda of the Council of State in November 2005. At the time, for example, Dr. Janko Prunk and Dr. Stane Grand of the Institute of History of SAZU defended the introduction of domestic education, but again in a controversial manner that does not give me all the answers. What did Mr. Stane Granda say? He said that domestic education must be based on good civic education, otherwise it can be counterproductive, dangerous to democracy and so on. So, if civil education is already here, then where is the contribution of domestic education and what can be the subject of this. But we know that the Government - I think the Government, and I forgive myself, you still have 40 minutes to correct me, including myself - I think that the Government has already adopted some action plan to promote civil culture at the very beginning. Is the introduction of domestic education and knowledge of the country the result, say, of this action plan? Is this native education sufficiently present in our minds and in your minds what it brings? There'll be no misunderstanding. Of course, I think that in Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia, we lack certain self-confidence in interpreting and seeing and understanding the people. But, however, civic education must train a person, as I say, to think critically and to learn about his own history, how to manage society and so on. But what is it, then, that domestic education brings a superstandard if you are already introducing it? For the proposals of this new household or knowledge of home and the world and for explaining it, I will be grateful, and certainly not only for me, but also for those who will obviously face it in the future, can be positive, but can also not, impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u177	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly! Dear Members and Members! Allow me to answer some of the questions raised in this debate by this time. Don't mind, I'd like to start at the end, because Madam Members are in a hurry to answer this question. Next to some of the alleged calls, Mr. Ambassador Dr. Gaber mentioned, you mentioned the same thing. You even mentioned that you had a hearing that there were some calls. There were no calls on my side. And even if they were, I don't know what would be wrong with it. I too would very much like to hear the reasons why some presidents or leaders of various associations have joined this signature organised by Mr Branimir Strukelj, and especially because the public debate was going very well. We have practically a third round of public debate that we started a few months ago, and it was thorough. Earlier, the Member asked why we had not organised any public debate. There were more than 50 discussions of activities, 18 of which we had at the Ministry of Education and Sport, 11 by Slovenian regions, in different places. In this house, not in this hall, there were eight debates organized by the National Council. The novels are going into regular procedure. I don't know if there was another novelty, a marriage proposal as broad a public debate as it was here. We were here even in the parliamentary groups where we exchanged views and the discussions were good. What bothers me, though, is that some have signed that letter easily for Members, even though they have not opposed the law in its entirety. Let's say it's a board of directors. When they had a meeting at Bled, the congregation, they did a survey. And on the issue of targets, this change was supported by 88% of managers, 76% of managers' electives, 76% of managers' flexible subjects, 77% of managers' education plan. These are their data, please, a statement of action without the consent of parents 95% of teachers, evaluation as introduced, 71% of directors, integration, transition - 68%, Slovenian courses for foreigners - 90%, portfolio - 75% and so on. Only at one point, that's another foreign language, they objected. Some also objected to just one thing. For example, the Society of Directors objected, and the President, the fact that in the amendment of the law we have made it possible for teachers to be professional; now, of course, we are with ZOFI; teachers are also teaching professional subjects at the first Bologna level. If we didn't let that happen, this instant of 600 teachers would be with inadequate education. That's why we had to let it happen. However, we have clearly written: teachers - second rate of Bologna, kindergartens - first rate of Bologna, they have signed. Students also, Student Organisation of Slovenia. Tell me why they signed it because it's none of their business. It seems to me that they've been invited to sign everyone who's had a pass. I would very much like to hear the arguments of all signatories. I hope that they will have so much courage and also face that they will tell me in my eyes, as we talked before, negotiate, it is clear that we cannot include all their proposals from all associations. It just doesn't work that way. But we did a lot of them, and it would be right to say. Clear and loud, why they did what they did. However, the fact is that I did not prepare these non-originations, and neither did I prepare them, alone, but a huge, huge number of people were involved. Scientists as well as experts, practitioners, experts and the like. Domestic education. I did not expect a big debate here, because more or less even you who have challenged this issue have agreed with the fact that we may not be proud nationally, that there may even be too little of this content in the educational process. Practically everyone finds out something like this. The fact is that civil and domestic education is compatible. Let me read to you just one sentence from Mr Strein in one of the chambers: "The relationship between domestic and civil education is by no means symmetrical opposition or as an irresistible contradiction, except tendingly and politically." I absolutely agree with his position. It's a compatible process. The concept, the concept that you hide cannot be completely separated, and one is strongly linked to the other, and both are based on tolerance, if you do not have the values of patriotism, you may find it difficult to tolerate it even with others. Mr. Gaber also mentioned the calls, and I'd like to hear them say who it was that I called. That's what I'm really interested in. Perhaps it would be good to hear that in order to clear up the matter. Prolongation of stay. Why are we changing our extended stay? Look, so far we've had this 5th, 6th grade 50% pay school, 50% parents, of course the most children in extended fifth grade, by 6th grade is much smaller. Well, now we've simplified the matter. I know that this will be a slightly higher cost for the system and there will be more children in extended stay, we have practically reached the deadline for all those who would like to take advantage of this right. For extended stays this year, 4370 children are more than they were last year. The question was also how it was with additional expertise. A total of 8.5 billion Slovenian tolars come from the state budget for this activity. Mrs Possonceva also mentioned the fear of whether a new way of financing would harm minority schools or not - certainly not! The funding system across my head seems to be a system of the future, more or less this is a trend that they are also introducing abroad, where we have started to introduce it, even before I came to this place, evaluation, institution and CPI have done a study where they prove that this method of funding brings better results, but now we do not say in law that, at some point in time, we will also approach the financing of chapters at the level of primary schools. But the fact that, especially in the field of secondary schools, this way is urgently needed brings a number of positive qualities. Now, by the way, if we are already in high school, especially in the field of vocational and professional education, there is a very thorough and vibrant development and change, you can call it reform. Let's say it's just a matter of evaluation. In recent days, we have adopted a regulation that will enter into force this autumn and bring a completely new culture of evaluation, as well as a new philosophy of the functioning of vocational and professional education, where the student is actually at the heart of the process. There will be no more underestimation or enics. The student will also be able to come to a higher class, including with NMS, if he can fix it in due course. But that's up to the professional, program teaching choirs. These are the great things that are happening in the school system, and it would be right to try to look at these changes in the context of all the changes, reforms, and you will see that they are consistent. And also because of this, the assessment problem is becoming less and less important when some hang on to the big bell, but what happens now that there is no general learning success. The key task and function of the school is to provide knowledge, values, virtues, competences, virtues and not evaluation in itself. And if the whole world or almost all the OECD countries do not have a general final learning success and we do have it, then that makes it clear enough that we do have a special relationship to do so. 68% of all students were good and excellent. Do you think this is a normal reflection of child knowledge? Where's Gauss' curve and all that? It's not like that. Look, the question of another foreign language. When we were in the parliamentary groups, we also received suggestions from you. For example, with the Slovenian People's Party, someone has even suggested that it is necessary that Belgium, for example, has three foreign languages, Luxembourg has even four. The more small countries, the more important it is for children to acquire at least the basic knowledge of the foreign language as early as possible, because they can wake them up at any time later than they do, and more often than Mr Sok used to say how it works. It is essential, especially for small nations, that we know as many foreign languages as possible, and now is a fine opportunity. Other countries are also introducing this, and we do not detect hot water as far as this is concerned. It would be very embarrassing for younger generations to accuse us of not introducing this and others, for example, to be less competitive in the European labour market or in life at all, because it is not just the labour market. Some said that I had used the General Education Council to come up with something else than I had written the letter, even today a diary on the front page wrote a lot. Of course that's not true. The letter has not been written and I have been particularly careful about this, and the General Education Council has explicitly supported all these changes, because you need to know how this professional council operates and how it manages, where exact conclusions are very rarely adopted, but they are summaries of the debates. And believe me, all that was written in this letter was thoughtful and absolutely nothing contrary to the facts. By the way, it was mentioned that a school could not afford cassetters or computers. Gold for a cassette player, that's really interesting. In 2006 we bought 6,200 computers for the table, 1000 laptops, video projectors; 2007-4700 computers, 800 laptops and 200 interactive tables; schools are extremely well equipped with information technology. Extremely good compared to other schools around the world, I think very good. This started before me already the first of those big piles of purchases and equipment had been done before and we just kept on doing it. Let me tell you, there was no clear consensus in any school law, ever. Only in the White Paper, which introduced privacy, but privacy is likely to be debated under the following law, because it is tied to it, is it? I believe, although this is some field where we should achieve as much consensus as possible, because it is true that what I heard twice today by the Social Democrats, I said at the outset, the great radical intervention in the school system does not work because it is too sensitive to be able to play, experiment with people, with students. And what we do, these "news" aren't huge interventions into the school system. The last massive intervention was a nine-year-old. It can be a fundamental reform of provincial legislation, but a philosophy of the functioning of secondary schools, which will be passed on to the provinces, we already have an example from primary schools and the introduction of local communities. In short, what we are introducing here is not about any radical or extreme, as we have heard, changes in the school system are complements that are happening around the world. In England, every few years you have significant changes in the school system, new laws and the like. Blair was helped to adopt the law by conservatives because these things are getting closer and closer. There is no more radical left or right-wing politics, so it is not about politicisation of the school system. When we gather ministers in Europe, we do not really know or know who is from any political option, whether it is from the left or the right, conservative, liberal, etc. More or less, common answers to common questions are sought. Although there will probably never be a consensus pure for changes in the school system, I ask you, however, for at least that much, especially those severe criticisms of dignity and tolerance, to be accepted in my view by these urgent changes. There have never been any permanent meetings. Sometimes I feel like someone wants to go against it, but they don't know exactly why or what they're up against. There have been no secret meetings, no politicisation of Slovenian education since I came to this responsible place. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members of Parliament, also our guests on the balcony! It's been three weeks since I finished primary school. For almost 20 years, I have been very actively associated through my daughters with elementary school, both with parental membership and with the world of institutions. And now that I've left elementary school a few days ago, I can say, successfully, very successfully completed this school, and I must say, I'm glad we have such a school that we have such a school. But I know even more, and I am sure that in primary education we still have things that can and need to be changed and we can improve them. Primary school is supposed to be an educational institution. I estimate that it was a well-educated institution, that the education area in primary school was limping and perhaps limping. Why do I feel that way? When we were at meetings of the parental world and the world of institutions, there was no meeting to avoid getting into trouble at school, and that was with discipline or better to say, with non-discipline, with disorder, with violence which, I can say, was also more and more occurring in primary school. That one individual can seriously interfere with the educational process in a certain class, I think it is clear to everyone and that there is no teacher, so to speak, the professor has no opportunity to act, I think something needs to be done in this area. There are also rights and responsibilities for students who are very, very aware of their rights, and on their duties, I would say, sometimes they forget too quickly. Even with conversations with teachers and professors, I've seen this powerlessness of theirs quite a number of times, and somewhere they've been drooling over the system itself, so that they don't have the right mechanisms to be able to act effectively enough and also to take educational action. I have heard many times that not even a teacher has decided to make a negative assessment, because the rules themselves dictate too many different justifications and other administrative work and teachers - I say, we have smart teachers - will certainly not impose additional burdens on them in this way, of which there are no many benefits. Therefore, personally, I must say that I would support the proposal to reintroduce re-evaluation into primary school, whether descriptive or numerical, of behaviour. I think that what is now or what is proposed is something, but I think it would be good to have motivation for the students themselves. I would like to stop all of these advantages that this novel law brings, the flexibility of the subject, and I very much welcome this, because I want and I am convinced that it is right for students to look for knowledge, to discover the talents of individual students and that their abilities, talents are being enhanced and upgraded. However, that objects that do not lie on them do not cause the students to become overemphasized and eager to learn. As far as another foreign language is concerned, not everyone needs it. But we live in a time when I personally think it's an emergency. Above all, we're going to give a lot to those talented, and those who don't need it will just say, "I'll do my own thing." This general learning success will not anyway spoil their overall learning success. But it will, I think, be very important for most of the students. I would like to conclude with civil and domestic education. Here I think there is a need to give more emphasis to young people, because this area was - I will say - in this independent Slovenia a little too placed in the background, and it seems to me that with the years of Slovenia alone it is necessary for this to come into our curricula as well. I'm sure the changes will be positive. These are probably not all the changes that are needed yet, but at least something in this area is improving. I am sure that we will improve primary school at least partially with this, but it will probably be necessary to listen later to the trends that will show up and to listen to the new insight that will come in this area. Once again, I would say that in the field of education, it would be right to pay more attention, for this will solve many of the problems and problems that have emerged in our society in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Since the time is so short, after this serious debate, a little while I was listening to the debate, there was a moment when some of the Members would gather a little so that they would not discuss so unconnectedly and prepare for the debates more seriously. However, I would like to comment on the criminal provisions for non-intelligence of teaching, which I think is very good because'springing', so-called'springing', has become a national sport. In my day, we didn't even think about spraying in high school, let alone primary school. Here, however, students serve this mass and do not tell them what the problems of teachers are, because they have to ask them separately, give them assignments and so on. Sadly, we can see that my parents are also involved in this. In short, parents also support them, which I find absolutely unacceptable. If the state makes up for the costs of education, it may also require regular school attendance, I think it is the right and duty of parents to send their children to schools and already in the former system that some of us have experienced, some of us remember him as a fugitive, there was a judge for the offences that he has sanctioned parents in such cases. I think that was pretty good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u183	Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! It's a nice greeting. Tradition in humans is maintained from generation to generation. And usually traditions are kept by right-wing people, and left-wing people are trying to change it and bring something new to this place - but it's the other way around. General learned success, all of us, respected colleagues and colleagues here, have accepted the entire period of schooling. This general learning success, from a professional point of view, has transformed all knowledge, all the behavior of a person in school into one of the words: or excellent, good, not great, but excellent, not good, not good and so on, good, enough, I guess you don't have to talk anymore. This was done so that, at the end of a period of time, not only did the school give him knowledge, but it also verified that knowledge, and at the end of this examination, he obtained some result. We get our results with our lives, with our work at work, with money. And so on and even if a person goes to school, this school has to ultimately give him some result, and so do the most primitive people, tribes that live almost in stone age, and when a person reaches a period when he matures, his work is evaluated. I, Mr Minister, would not agree with you on what you said in Democracy when you explained in an extensive interview about eliminating general learning success. If I quote you, you said, "It's neither the usual nor the mission of the school to mark anyone at all, for example, that he's good, excellent, insufficient." The mission of the school is indeed not, and I agree with you, I agree that the mission of the school is to give knowledge of giving moral standards, ethical standards to the man who goes there. There is certainly no mission of the school to give him what you claim to mark him on at all with these things, but in every thing that he is - because I am, as you know, a mathematician - at the end of everything he turns into numbers: your birthday, your date of death, your date of marriage, your pay and so on. Mathematics has been a great help to a man who makes us rich by being able to paint different actions into a crowd here of natural numbers or into a bunch of five words - to understand each other, it's not 5, it's great. And it seems to me that this word is so ingrained between us, it is of such importance that it just, with its left hand on one marriage, wipe it out from the possibility that this thing probably, believe me, Mr. Minister, will not end as well as you now think it is good. Why not? See, this assessment or this success at the end, what a person has done, what every person needs is some encouragement, some thing to finally prove to be what he is, but not only to be evaluated - has been used to obtain social transfers, and I have been able to do so myself, and I have also had certain things from the scholarship so far. This matter was also involved in certain codecision procedures, whether you went ahead or not. This is a big issue that, in my view, will end irresistibly and conflicts will arise despite the best will to move the learning youth from one aspect of education to another. And I also think that the third thing is that this assessment is also an expression of the general view of man. Mr. Minister, if we had good people on the one hand now, good, good, good, but now we're going to have statistical averages if I'm going to take a picture. That's insulting to the students. If you work at schools now so as not to take into account general learning success, where not only the arithmetic mean of the assessments he had there is not to be taken into account, and you can also have what you said was not true, excellent success, for example, that has three maths. I had a lot of stuff in high school when I was concluding as a classmate that they had either three, foreign language or something, but he was still a great guy. Two threes, tops, and we said he was a great guy because he was so far away from the others. And this was a great encouragement to him and great things to go on. Each side has two things. And the hardest thing with a professor, Mr. Secretary, whether you believe me or not, is an evaluation. You do the lecture with almost your left hand, including other activities, from parental meetings to parental classes, etc., you do it, it's not hard. But to evaluate and be fair, and this is one of the greatest facilities that a teacher can do. And if someone has a learner in processing, I forgive myself for the expression, four, five or six years, and if more people have so much time in processing, it is certainly that general learning success - if it is doubtful, it is determined at teaching conferences - and they give people appropriate incentives when they try to finish. That's why I find some of your arguments, Mr. Minister, at least to me unacceptable. Look, this assessment of yours is correct. As a principal myself, as a professor at the end of my school year, I have worked on an endless number of statistics that have been very helpful to me in my training work. If I had that kind of statistics, you said binomial distribution, and I've always done it because you're being shown some distribution. If she had a maximum of three or a little under three or over three, but the other things were kind of bellowing down, I did a good job. If they had a maximum here, but it went down there, it means I didn't get any more results. But if I have a case, Mr. Minister, like you just said, that I have 68% of the good guys and the good ones, it is said that this spectrum has moved completely there, that there is something wrong with the work. [[..]] [[Explanation from the bench.]] No, no, no. [[..]] Excuse me? That something was wrong in the part of the school system itself or that, like the unions at the time, they were very much protesting when they said, if it would be a criterion and only this criterion for success forward, so that there would be no other criteria, then parents would press, as much as they could, on teachers and blackmail them and in children at home, for as high an assessment as possible. That's one case. And if that's the case, it's possible to divide by binomial distribution, and whoever's in some class, that's for sure to be distributed. That kind of thing about the number of points, if you want, or the amount of knowledge I orally assess, you can put it in place. But if we really have such a generation that is supremely now beyond what the previous generations are, then we can only be happy. Then you, Mr Minister, must be congratulated that you have such generations and such an education where almost all are excellent or very good. And to keep these things going, it also turns out that now those who have graduated from high school and are moving forward to achieve in recent times, in the last ten, fifteen years, which is due, after all, to colleague Gabru, who led this department, that we have long passed the European average for the middle and the highly educated, that we are high up there where we didn't even dream. This means that this school system was that these teachers who worked in these schools, that even at the university were the people who brought this left hand share, but there was no quality from which they could judge whether these successes were really good enough to carry on their work. I'll try to close it. I think that because the law can no longer be amended, respected colleagues and colleagues, that by what we will do by pressing the button, we will do irreparable damage, which will prove to be, if not for a short period of time, and in the long run for sure. For if now I say to my son, "See, I was a great man. What are you?" He's going to say, "But I had the math right," and it's going to end. So there's no equivalent again or between these two things, so there's got to be a whole lot of things in front of you before you decide to do that. And I think that this decision about general learning success was premature.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! Without a problem, I could agree with my colleague, Jace, who says that the talks in Parliament are useful, and today is an opportunity to clear up the dilemmas we have. At the same time, all of us here today have a shadow, a shadow of signatures, a shadow of the arguments of the professional public, an interested public who tells us that unfortunately the proposals we are talking about today have not been harmonised, that many of the open issues on which the professional and interested public have comments, and that the proposal we are talking about today has many shortcomings from their point of view. That's a fact. And I would be very pleased, as at the previous examination of one of the health laws, I was skeptical about the law, because in fact the entire public affected by the law is not satisfied with the proposals. Likewise today, we are wearing this shadow where the professional interested public tells us that the solutions we are talking about today are not right. Of course, I would first touch on the problems that this law brings and significance. Mr Minister, they are thoroughly interfering with the system, because to say that the change in selectivity does not affect the system thoroughly, then it is very difficult to understand that you are putting yourself in the role of a student when it comes to deciding. Because these are difficult decisions for students, and if we are talking about these changes today in a way that selectivity will be possible so that we can avoid one area, either socio-humanistic or science-mathematic, it seems to me that this is an extremely fundamental intervention. I was part of this generation and I was at the Pedagogical High School in 1977 directed at the so-called science and mathematics class. I'm paying this price today. Not because I was not satisfied that I had many hours of mathematics, physics, because it was lying to me, but life also brought the need for different knowledge that I could understand, of course, social events, socio-economic events in which I live. Because, of course, "fahidiotes" are never good for us to be able to fully understand the changes that are taking place in society. And of course here is my thought, Is it a departure from the unity of primary school in that concept, when we say that, of course, we want to build as much knowledge as possible in primary school in individuals, while at the same time seeking a balance to the question that we are looking for its strengths. And of course, when we talk about sustainable development and when we talk about lifelong learning, then it's crucial that, at least in school, we think about how a student learns to learn. One of the very important professional issues that we have always dealt with in schools. Of course, I can agree that knowledge of foreign languages is extremely important today. But is that all that matters today? Because when I look at my child, I wonder why there is no more information technology, that is, knowledge in the field of information technology, because access to the database, data manipulation, data search is extremely important today. And if we write that only one of those objects is an emergency, then I wonder if in this way we give a valuable judgment that the necessity for other knowledge is significantly lower. I don't think the message at this point is right. Disengagement of general learning success. Even though you are arguing today that 68% are good and excellent. I wonder, Mr. Minister, even if we don't do this sum, do you think that students or students who are going to have this kind of success are going to be less successful? It's just, we're not gonna record them. The problem, as my colleague Moze said, exists elsewhere. There's a key somewhere else. And if I come from my behavior as a teacher, as a principal, the motive is to achieve, at the end of education, by strengthening, by correcting assessments, so as to acquire additional knowledge, to strengthen knowledge, so that we have improved the ultimate success, one of the very important motives both for teachers and for students and for parents. And in this way you cannot tell me that we have not tried to achieve significantly greater knowledge in students who wanted to improve their final learning success. To change this, of course, we have already seen in the Fellowship Act, where, of course, with statistics 4,5, 4,49, 51 you have already tried to make different criteria. The argument that there's no other way to do this is that I think it's funny. It's as if the English would say, given that almost the whole world is on the right; why the English are riding on the left. Well, let me change that one more time, because it's really stupid for you to do it! Do we not then wonder if this is the quality we have in the school system? We have not been able to hear this answer today, we have not been able to hear an assessment of the fact that when we build quality, when we build a successful self-image of individuals - I as a principal and as a teacher say that we have worked hard at school to improve the student's self-image. That's a big problem. When a student or a student fails, how to create a positive self - image in order to reverse the trend, say negatives in relation to life. And of course, here is the decision, whether to end or maintain general learning success replaces a much more difficult question than we can say - there is no other one, and given that we have 68% of the excellence and just the good ones, so we need to do these things. I would only touch the extended stay. Mr. Minister, I have read your introductions to law and explanation very carefully. I have nowhere to see the data that you have been talking about today that there are significant movements, that in the 5th grade parents would have wanted much more than in the 6th grade, and that this is a well-founded decision. In the document to the bill, and not in the explanation, this cannot be observed. But I'm a parent myself in this generation, and I come from an environment where I feel the need, not that we wouldn't have it in the sixth grade anymore, but that we would be able to extend maybe another year. So I have a substantially different, so empirical, practical experience from the environment from which I come from, so, of course, it would also be necessary here to do significantly more expertise, at least to justify convincing us that this is the right thing to do. But when we talk about education, today a lot of people here have talked about the school system as an acquaintance, and I think it's just because we used to go to school and that's why we get to know each other. However, there are significantly fewer people here who have specifically dealt with problems related to the educational process. And if someone tells me today that there is no education in primary school, then it would be good to go there for a week and see what teachers and teachers are doing. Have a little seat in the first bench, or you'll be a little bit the biggest there if you're at lower levels, but let's really go there and see if there's any education in schools. But if someone is talking to me today when we're dealing with populations that are young, that there will be no dynamics, that there will be no educational problems, then I don't know what we're talking about. For if there is no turbulence in young people, if there is no search for their ways, which sometimes go even to older ones more into feeling too keen and dynamic, then we do not feel the pulse in the school. We imagine today that there will be no new quality through young generations, then I don't know why they go to school. I've always taught them this way that what I teach is to be upgraded. And of course, a critical thought of this can contribute to new knowledge, to the strategic goals that we set ourselves. For if it were not for this evaluation process, that the disciples were better than the teachers, then there would be no development. And here this scepticism and this criticism to the young generation surprises me, because if there is no creative unrest in the young generation, then also, in my firm belief, there will be no development. There's only so much about autonomy. We have made a lot of decisions here in this Chamber, where we have been reducing autonomy. Let us just remember the composition of the worlds where we have expressed our distrust that in schools for teachers, in the world of schools, decisions are significantly more autonomous than, say, the reduction and composition of the worlds so that teachers are in a much larger minority than they were before. Of course, when we discuss these vats, we need to have the whole picture, Mr Minister. Here I agree with you that this is a broad, comprehensive process and should have the full picture. And I've been trying to talk about this whole picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers! Dear Members! My debate, my contribution won't be professional, I've never been a teacher at primary school, not a principal. But I see that we have a lot of MEPs here in Parliament who were teachers and principals, and that's a good one, and the question is, where could there be more benefits? My assessment is that the amendment to the basic school law, which we have on the benches, is far from a radical change in primary school or primary school law. I have put the primary school process through four times myself, for the first time, and for the second time with my three children. And in fact, it is a fantastic evolution of the Yugoslav and, of course, the Slovenian elementary school now. In addition, this novel of the Basic School Act does not have the label "domestic" as it has been reported. Here I must admit to the Minister that he adheres to the word he gave at his first performance in the National Assembly when he told and announced that he would not perform radical interventions, and that is indeed true. Then, to remind us, it was one question and the only question to the Minister whether he would introduce a believer into primary school. If the answer were, "Yes", in the sense of a mandatory case, Dr. Beast would not support himself. Otherwise, as far as school is concerned, in Novi Slovenija we support those guidelines that place people at the heart of the human race. The essential function of such a school is not merely to impart knowledge to students, but to develop their abilities. We need to develop learning in all complexity - learn to know, learn to work, learn to be and learn to coexist. Schooling is not just a reasonable process, but a student should be meaningful, valuablely involved, with an integrated personality. We also integrate the role of the teacher, the organisation of learning as a personality growth, the promotion of the development of diverse and increasingly advanced students' abilities, the development of emotional and spiritual needs, the care of relaxed and confidential social relations, the close integration of intellectual, emotional, social, physical, moving with technical practical, aesthetic and ethical. In accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, we take into account the right of parents to provide children with such education and education in accordance with their own religious and philosophical beliefs. Someone earlier said that primary school management had reported that they did not accept this novel of the Basic School Act. The message is, of course, exact and correct, since the laws and novelties of law are passed by this National Assembly. One of the key reasons for amending the law, in my opinion, is the good intention to allow schools greater autonomy in organising and carrying out educational work. In this way, the school will be able to take more account of the specifics of the environment in which it is located. In some ways, it is subsidiarity, the principle of subsidiarity. In the New Slovenia Group, as you know, we also strongly supported small municipalities. We are not afraid of small congregations, we are not ashamed of small municipalities, because we know that certain functions at lower levels can be carried out more effectively. I also expect that through this new law, the teachers will finally be restored to the reputation that teachers deserve. I have no doubt that teachers in primary school would not be raised. I know that this is one of the hardest professions, and I know that some people are doing a lot of work and actually are also burning up in education, not just the educational process. That is why I am so much more in favour of the new bill, which states that schools will also have to draw up a curriculum in addition to the annual work plan, which will also be adopted by the school world. And here in this place you allow, ladies and gentlemen, the experience when I was as a member of the board of the institution negatively surprised. In fact, when we adopted the institution in the world, it was a few years ago, the statute of the institution, then in three rounds in an article that defined the tasks of the institution, we were not able to write down the education as well. The case ended by a lawyer telling them that they had received such a instruction from Ljubljana. I want to forget who the school minister was then because I care about the future. But there remains a good old Slovenian saying that we learn from mistakes all our lives. I don't care if we're talking about civic or domestic education, but I would like to, and I expect once from elementary school, that the student who finishes the ninth grade will be able to say at least two sentences about every Slovenian national holiday. Since I will leave some time to my colleagues and colleagues, I conclude by supporting the decision of the National Assembly that the proposed legal material on primary school is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, my colleague gave me quite a few points in front of me. Basically, I would like to point out that when we discuss or when we talk about the basic school law, you want to or you don't want to, we need to look at the content of another law, the law on education financing and education. I believe the Minister will also agree with me that these two marriages are very closely related. One cannot be watched or treated without the other or excluding the other. I'll tell you why. Example. Because, my colleague before me, you mentioned that this novel of law actually gives teachers the city, an important place they deserve in our society. Oh. K. - Everything's fine and fine. Yes, I agree with you, teachers are a very important segment - excuse me for not finding others at the moment - but they are very important in the process of education and education. They take care of the upbringing and education of our children. However, you know, when you look at another law, this is the law on financing education and education, and this law actually degrades teachers, since for the first triad for the period of education and also for the professional schools teachers a lower educational level is required. He says, according to Bologna, but that's when I already warned when the second minister, the minister in charge of higher education, introduced that strange system of Bologna reform into our school education system. And let me say, when the minister made a smile on his face, when I mentioned that they do not all have Slovenian primary schools, I can give a concrete example of the appropriate conditions for them to exercise quality education. I say and insist that, as of today, the lack of funding in public education, public education - yes, primary schools have old broken cassetteries because they have no money for new CD players, primary schools collect funds through sponsors or buy old computers, that is reality, Minister. I believe it is difficult to see the reality of Slovenian primary schools from the minister's chair, but if you take a walk, you will see the reality. Just look at the elementary school of Trbovlje where the problem is, but the actual problem or the student can press the switch when it rains outside because it leaves the roof and because of the light running water, you know, that's the problem. It does not matter, I say, that in the framework of Slovenian public education there is a lack of funding and instead of introducing and looking for new opportunities to improve the quality of public education, public primary education, there is more funding for private education. But this is the subject of another marriage, and we'll talk about it. You mentioned, Minister, also how many computers were purchased in 2006, computers, laptops, laptops and laptops. And I want to know what the difference is between computers, laptops and laptops. I say, Minister and all those who will press "for" that the law is good and suitable for further consideration and even for acceptance in such content as it is proposed to be radical changes, radical changes that will have long-term negative consequences within Slovenian public primary education, because this law, the Law on Primary School and the Law on Financing for Education and Education actually promote inequality or cause inequality between students and even between places. I don't support that kind of marriage. [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much again for your word. I, too, received a highlight from my predecessor, wondering if children really live in such situations and who is responsible for the risk of killing themselves when it rains. I wonder if they have such an incompetent principal or mayor or both. You really need to ask yourself who's investing in education. Indeed, the Ministry is co-financed and the founder of the school is a local community. And that must be made clear. And I believe if you came with a program to the Ministry to intervene immediately for new electricity if it's so problematic. However, in the short time available to me, I was thinking of touching the letters we received from Members in the last day, namely "For quality public education" with the first-signed Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia. 13 is a signatory and very large, given that they have signed: the Association of Directors, the community of kindergartens, student organisations, student organisations, but I have not noticed anyone on this list - there are no parents here. I wonder whether the parents agree with this amendment of the law, whether they do not at all seem worthy of being asked whether they have a say in the adoption of such legislation. 167 thousand children, our children are in primary school, and two parents are usually -- and there is no signature. And even from this letter there is nothing to be understood about the Basic School Act, no specific proposal for about 20 articles that change in this law is proposed, except that they advocate a quality public education. What do you think, we don't stand for quality public education? What schools do you think our children go to? How many of those private schools are there? It would be more necessary to have them, but in the first place also a quality primary school. We will also support this in Novi Slovenija. I am sorry that they do not say which article or whether they have any comments on the abolition of learning success, on the selection content, on the autonomy of the school regarding the schedule and so on. Thus, this letter did not give us any good suggestions or help.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll start from the end. Indeed, the letter "For a quality public school" is the last in a number of letters and messages to the public, in which representatives of various unions and other associations have informed the public about how they view the proposed school legislation. It is true that there are 13 groups of signatories, and it is also said that 14 were envisaged, but we have not yet received an answer to why his signature was missing. What I see as a regular reader of public publications is that public publications create a very kind image of the Minister for Education, who is also often photographed and all smiles in photographs. Even when taking photos with the chairman of the Swiss Union. But if I'm reading texts, then I'm seeing a habit that I can't agree with. The issue is that the Minister's attention is personalised when it comes to individual representatives of NGOs. When it comes to SVIZ, SVIZ is automatically Branimir Strukelje. And neither the minister nor anyone else sees behind him the 40,000 members of this union and the entire confederacy. This is because it is very easy to discredit an individual in public. Branimir Strukelj is not the only one, and the president of the Schoolmasters' Association was the one who was specifically mentioned as having the nerve to oppose certain things. And these are forms of public pressure on individuals. I can have a friendly or unfriendly relationship with someone in public about his physical image, but I must take him with respect and as my accomplice at the moment when he is a representative union or if he is mine - not my minister, forgive me, you are not my minister, but you are the Minister of the Slovenian Government for Education and Sport. What I'm trying to say is that what I'm missing is that we're wondering what our education is all about. I imagine he's a sly man. And a charming person is the sum of educational and educational content, and the school is not the only one who shapes a person in his behavioral patterns. She can't be the only one responsible for this, and she can't be the only one to blame when behavioral patterns are inappropriate. For many children, however, school is the only place that positively forms it because it lives in a socially insurmountable environment. And so I would like to hear less about the different stereotypes that we keep repeating and that we keep talking about. Look, we've been talking about how Minister Beast is supposed to be responsible for public opinion being so favored by the school. Look, the general state of things when it came to independence was that there was a crisis of trust in institutions. At the time, 52.7% of respondents were also entrusted to educational institutions in 1991. Then the trend shows that confidence is growing all the time, and in 2000 it is 82.7% and in 2003 it is 82.4%, but in 2005 it is 77.2%. Two-tenths of a percent, falling, after a growing trend began to decline. I do not claim that this is all the credit or guilt of Minister Beast, because institutions and trust in the institution, thank God, are now growing from the personal experience of how these institutions operate in their environment. From whether the questioned have confidence in the work of teachers and teachers, educators and educators. And here I seem to be the worst obvious thing about this ruling suit, that I don't see any overconfidence in teaching as a whole, because some control actions are just what they are. It's just about the good guys. Standards of knowledge are important for individual evaluations and I don't agree to this, I prefer a picture made up of pieces to pieces in a bag that I wear [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's what I'm trying to tell you. [[...]] The pressure on the individual evaluation teacher will continue, even if overall success will be eliminated. Knowledge standards need to be built [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while, 'cause there's less time. If academic success is considered so highly motivated by our colleagues, then why did we abolish it as the first triad in 1996? Then the introduction of another foreign language was certainly wrong to speak about the introduction of another foreign language, but not to pay particular attention to civil and domestic education. And just two more sentences from the press statement of the 17th National Children's Parliament, which was here, I think March this year. The selected items are assessed positively by children, but they point out that the choice should be completely free. And secondly, young parliamentarians have once again warned that they are missing a sober conversation between class hours and that the school teaches them little about life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Allow me to briefly try to answer some questions and comment on some comments. True, the views or discussions were practically related to both laws. It is likely that the Law on Primary Schools is somewhat less difficult to deal with, but then consciously or unconsciously touched on the issue of ZOFVI, which will be the next item in the agenda; however, allow me to do the same as you did in the debates. So, once again, I would like to stress that social dialogue has taken place. I'm not going to talk about the numbers that I've been proving this fact with a little while ago. I would just like to highlight those comments that we have taken into account in this social dialogue. From the SWIZ union, we placed a Bologna article on their wish. At that time, the Secretary-General said, at the last or previous meeting on 3 April, that this was the most important point for them and we took it into account. I would like to stress once again that there would be no misinterpretations in public. In the whole school, from the first grade to the end of high school, a second Bologna degree is prescribed for all teachers. Once again, the second rate of Bologna, we do not reduce anything except for those teachers who work in practical subjects in the field of vocational and vocational education, where there is no universal education, whether it is so important that this matter simply does not require higher education. For example, I don't know, in agricultural school, when learning a tractor's skills, there's probably no need for uneducation. But once again, we have some teachers where there are no easy college university programs according to old or other Bologna degrees. This is why we have only taken into account the actual situation, otherwise, as I said before, several hundred teachers would have an inadequate education. [[..]] I suppose no one is opposed to this proposal in this way! So we're not lowering the standards of education in anything. So this is where we took into account the position of the SVIZ. Also in the size of the institutions where we deviated from some of the regulations. We have prescribed a union opinion in the preparation of a methodology on how to finance. The school environment is further secured on their proposal. We have more clearly defined, defined dictions in the Bologna articles. It was mentioned earlier whether we listened to our parents in this public debate - we are, at least, in four points. Municipalities, so to speak, that the design of centres is given as an option and that the upper limits of the number of kindergarten departments are deleted. By the way, the President, mentioned earlier, of the Kindergarten Union, agreed with this decision or this proposal. At the faculty of education - including with them, with the dean, we had some meetings where we discussed the Bologna articles and the education of teachers. We agreed with the students on their participation in the world of schools, and we agreed with the trade chambers on the delimitation of competence between the professional worlds. So, you see, there are not only 13 professional associations and NGOs that are interested in public debate, there are a number of others, including those that have not signed this letter. And in the children's parliament, we have taken into account their desire not to share in the selection, so that they are necessarily not choosing one natural and one social, but this border or this wall is falling. In short, we have adopted many things into our laws, so it was not only a unilateral dialogue, but also a dialogue and exchange of views and respect for many of these views and proposals. I am very sorry if there is another school in Slovenia where they cannot afford a cassettephone. That's really bad. In particular, if this is a school in the town of Trbovlje, the matter is actually catastrophic and it would be good to discuss with the mayor and the principal whether they have done everything in providing material and other conditions for a normal educational process. When you talked about extended stay, I said earlier that this lecture is more child-friendly and parent-friendly, because in the sixth grade, and it is evident statistically, fewer children decide to stay longer, are more independent, choose more independent content and subjects and already have more independence with their time. Of course, there are other exceptions, but you have a different experience and you have come to a different conclusion. But there is something else to be said here. In special primary schools, this protection or extended stay is provided up to the ninth grade. It's not true we haven't done anything about autism. We have three groups in the field of preschool education, Maribor, Ljubljana and Portorož. Catholic school has been read to me. It will be established if it is established; I do not know, I do not establish it, but it is established by civil society or the Church, on the basis of legislation adopted long before our mandate. The concept of private education was adopted in the 1990s and does not change in any way. Look, Mr. Mogue, the MP spoke earlier about quality. The very change of ZOFVI is more relevant to this, and we also want to see what the real knowledge of our children is, but we can never know if their knowledge and abilities are not compared with their peers in the world. That is why we have joined a series of international research, although it costs something, it is not so expensive that the Slovenian state would not be able to afford it, but we have approached "TIMSS Advance" just before my term of office, but without the mirror we will not be able to set up - I mean, to know and compare the skills and knowledge of our children or the quality of our school, which has been reflected in their competences. The choice in this novel will increase, it will not decrease, I do not know where you see the decrease in selectivity, it will even increase when we remove this blockade between natural and social subjects. Even when it comes to the burden of children when we talk about weekly burdens, the weekly quota of hours, it's not great for us. Our children are much less burdened by the number of hours per week than the European average. They are burdened with some other things, including the organization of teaching and so on. However, the weekly number of hours alone is not overloaded and this will be shown by a study that will come from the OECD in September and where we will have very accurate data and we will be able to compare where we are in Slovenia after the burden of children, after the burden of teachers, how much they are present in contact with students. Some very, very interesting comparisons and statistics will soon be made public. Slovenia, I am very happy, will become a full member of the OECD. It has been working for many years as an observer, and everything that this organisation of the most developed countries in the world is preparing in the field of education is also useful for Slovenia. We do not need to develop as a purely independent island without taking into account certain legalities that are developing with the world's school system. Once again, it is true that the field of education is the sovereign field of every national state, but because of ourselves, because of the development and "this type of equipment", under the terms "children" we must follow the world's trends as a matter of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm on my way. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. They warn you that the time is no more than three minutes per debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that again. I'll make it a short one, I promise. Minister, you know the first ball in your words. You know how to talk, and I would believe you if you didn't know the real situation. If I had not been aware of, last but not least, the very clear chronological course of events, the coordinations that were practically absent, with regard to both school laws. And I don't have time to read to you now after the dates or days of coordination; what were your promises in the media, in the individual officers, in the Primorski news, in the diary, in the STA, etc. And, Minister, I'm surprised to see you say you're very good at conducting dialogue, specifically around these two laws. You are exactly one of those ministers when you received, I think that the month of May this year, the most negative assessment within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was the most negative assessment regarding the conduct of dialogue with the professional public. I don't know if everyone in this love of Slovenia is really lying, except you and your government. But I don't understand why the whole, I'm not going to tell the general public, is creating real data. You say you have different information. You have read or said that much has been done for the field of autism, Minister. This is what we discussed when the meeting on school legislation was held within our parliamentary group. Article 26 of the Basic School Act deals with children with special needs. Do you know what it would be necessary to do? Very little. Very little. It's a specific case. Mommy drives her child from one place to another because there is no kindergarten development department in the place where she resides, and she does not get the travel expenses refund because she does not drive it to Ljubljana, where the institution is. But only one word should be added, or three words, the institution of education and protection, is said to be kindergartens, and the matter would be solved for a lot of people who are in a very difficult situation. You weren't ready to do that. I'm not going to talk again, I'm going to point out the Minister again, if I were to go to the first ball, and if I didn't know the actual situation, then I'd believe your words. But since the fact, the situation, the situation is different, I still say that such legislation introduces inequality into Slovenia and that schools will also find themselves in an unequal position because of the autonomy you are increasing: those in the richer municipalities and those in the poorer municipalities. That's bad, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u200	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Just one thing. More like a replica. Earlier in his discussion, a colleague of Germič wanted to show what is happening in our schools today, as a moment of youthful dispersion, it is said, as a result of the growth of these young people and that they need to be properly understood. I agree with that. It's just, dear fellows, that's not all. Today, we have many things in our schools that we can simply call vandalism, when children relatively uneducated come from home and pass these patterns of behavior on to others in school, and actually release this violence not only to their peers but also to teachers. And here I strongly support this responsibility in this direction, says on the one hand the right, and on the other hand the duties of the students are strengthened, and that the law is clearly recorded and that these educational measures are also introduced into the education process. And if parents, teachers, and students work together to create rules for the game, then they will be responsible for it together. And if someone violates all these rules, then, as stated in the law, even without the consent of the parents, he may be reassigned to another school. Then, in that final context, it will be that powerful educational action that will show that someone, a student, cannot afford anything that he would like, even if it is a period of puberty, if it is a period of adolescence in which he is such because of his youthful disposition. To protect his co-owners, at the final stage, to protect him, to tell him that he can’t do everything in his life at some point. And that is too much, and I think that, in order to avoid and protect the functioning of the school of teachers and students of the matter in this place, it is necessary to change them and not to give them any reason in the manner you do. You say you are [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] All right, then, Germich. [[..]] Thank you so much, because I said Thunder or Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Maybe another one of my expectations. I expect that every primary school will be a little more self-initiative in the future. I don't think every elementary school or school management should expect the minister to send a circular at a public holiday every time, that the national flag, the European flag, and so on, that it may be necessary to organise a celebration at a public holiday - I was appalled. In some cases, I know that there was no celebration in some local communities on Statehood Day. Catastrophe! We're only 16 years old and we've already forgotten when we were made. And it seems to me that it is the school that should also give this contribution to the local environment. I would also like to welcome the provision in the bill that duties are also introduced for parents. We parents are ready, when necessary, to open our hands for a child’s allowance or a large family allowance, when it is necessary to ensure that our child is enrolled in primary school and even more important to me to follow our child, whether he has really been in school today, and then we no longer have parental responsibility. And I think that the amendment of the law also lays down parental obligations in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Squeakl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u205	I am very glad that before me some people have discussed what we will do in primary school. I must say that I am against ending the youthful mood. If we stop the youth mix, then we will stop what the primary school is intended for, and this is to develop all the qualities of young people. And if you approach, as is clear from this debate, that it is necessary, in saying, to introduce a "criminal school" that it is necessary to end the youth mix, then I believe that you need these changes. The second thing I would like to talk to you about is that those who signed - that there are no signatures between these signatures of parents. I think that there are so many and so many representatives, so many and so many unionists, that they are also trade unionists, who are teachers at the same time, but of course also parents. And at the end of the day, it's about so-called choice. If the design and introduction of another foreign language is mandatory for a reduction account, then selectivity is reduced by definition. And Members and Members, if we change primary school in the second and third readings in the way you represent here today, then of course I believe that we will get a largely uniformed rather than a quality school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate confirms the repeatedly highlighted fact: we would urgently need a white book for these changes. After the Minister first dismantled the external examination in the field of primary education alone, the level study and, now that he has reached out to the electorate, he intervened in the pillars of the system. I suppose, given that I already know his way of functioning, that he will later wonder how the system does not produce the right results because he is always at fault. The incredible number of people think differently about whether or not he has made a deal with them. Most likely, everyone will have to get together and apologize to him publicly. Perhaps it will be necessary to take a different approach, but it may be necessary to ask whether coordination has taken place for so long and in this way and on such professional grounds that we have actually agreed on something. Only then can it be expected that when people leave the offices when they leave the premises, they will also stand behind the solutions. A typical example of manipulation is, and I admit to you, a statement, your letter is accurate, as you yourself said, but it's manipulative. You've asked the expert board, the minister always goes before the expert council to ask if you support the legislation I'm sending to the National Assembly. And what we should say is a brutal fact: the expert council sent you back, from you, expected you to give him the professional basis for solutions to explain these solutions and did not support the legislation that you are with here today. To this you must know the answer - do you have the support of the professional council for these solutions? The answer is no! And in this way, discussing such important laws is simply too short. These laws will not last, not even this government, except that they will last longer. Under this government, they will not live because a law that has no legitimacy against which those who run schools have never lived, and it will not live. Some of the solutions in marriage are even such that they should live. We should be alive as soon as possible. So think about it. Perhaps it is still time to stop this chariot before you make this fatal mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I myself will touch on the excellence of the problem, that there are too many excellent students and that is why it is necessary to stop learning success in order to reduce pressure on teachers in this way. By eliminating learning success, when there are no more excellent ones, we have heard what we will accomplish. Something completely different, we're not gonna solve the problem, but we're just gonna remove the indicator. This, if there is too much pressure on teachers, needs to be addressed in such a way as to ensure the integrity of teachers, to ensure that teachers are able not to give up on parental pressure, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if someone expresses ambitions, but wants to improve learning success, then of course - and this is what teachers are already allowing and thus also improving their knowledge. If there are too many students in the student population, of course, that means that these students are more capable, and I do not want to judge how many excellence there must be, that it will be right. But it is obvious that students are able and willing to do more than is required of them or should be required of them at this time. As a result, let us take a closer look at the burden of the disciples, who have been so much talk about many times. Overburden of pupils is likely to be overloaded, but let us ask what they are overburdened with. They are not overworked by school, as it is obvious that they can achieve such results for school that they receive excellent grades, they are burdened with, say, music school, which will now be their responsibility. They are burdened with, say, extracurricular rings, various other educational activities that will also count on their learning success. The next step can also be expected to count the believer in learning success, charity activities, dancing, music, drama clubs and much more. Of course, even all of this is important, I am not saying no, it is all very important, but I still say that school must remain first and then all school activities, as long as time remains. Not the other way around, for the school as long as it remains after all these things, since, last but not least, this will be counted as a success in school and, last but not least, this will be taken into account. And worst of all, what happens next? Those who fail to achieve sufficient learning success will still have to be teachers, again those teachers who have been on the wallpaper all the time, to ensure that they achieve such success so that they can advance to their senior year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u210	Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u211	Today, it has been reported that we do not respect the leaders or representatives of teachers and union leaders. I must say that in New Slovenia we respect this, but we cannot believe that these teachers can inherit that because of this Basic School Act they will be out of work or that any school or branch will be abolished, as this doubt speaks of in the letter. I'm sure only if there are no children will the schools drop out. I come from a place where there are fewer children each year in central school. There I wonder if there will always be so many teachers. A colleague of Horvath said earlier that he had asked the minister if he would introduce a religious man to school. I remember a question that I asked myself, what would happen to the level of instruction, because in the coalition contract we wrote down that we would end the external differentiation, and then the minister said that if we ended it, there would be 600 teachers on the road right away. Today, he said, if required for all the second rate of bologna, there would be another 600 teachers without adequate education or a suitable location. So I can't accept this criticism that this government underestimates teachers, that it doesn't support them, that they don't care what happens to them. I think that doubt is over and that everything will depend primarily on the number of children, not on whether or not there will be a private school. That's where they're gonna need teachers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Even though you haven't checked in, I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u213	I think I have some time left. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to thank you very briefly for this last position of the honourable Member. However, I would like to stress the following in particular. I have been giving the social dialogue a great deal of emphasis since we or I came to this place. In fact, I do not believe that the Chief Secretary of the Union was, for example, two and a half years before me, as many times at the Ministry of Education and Sport as he has recently been, although we have not changed the school system as quickly and radically as we have in your time. We also talked not only to him, but also to other social partners. We went to the parliamentary groups, where we also had very fruitful sessions with parliamentary groups, etc. In short, there was a lot of it. We have written very precisely with whom, when, where, how, what the substantive debate was. We have put a great deal of emphasis on this, which is why I am more surprised if you are trying to prove to me that this was not a public debate or a public debate. When you say that I radically cut into the school system by shutting down the NPZ, you need to tell the general public what it meant. In the previous reference, they adopted a law that passed a radical approach to the national knowledge test at the end of primary school. And that kid at the end of primary school, if he hadn't done the NPZ, he wouldn't have done the elementary school. One exam in the end weighed half the success. And if he hadn't made it positive, he wouldn't have made it a primary school. You think that's normal! And that was accepted and we stopped it, Dr. Gaber. That's what we stopped. I hear it's more than an excuse to do something like that. I was wrong about one number before; 63.7% are good and excellent, not 68%. So by mistake, some people were repeating the wrong number that I mentioned. That's what I wanted to point out. It's not about anyone. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] radical interventions into the school system. [[...]] Please understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 23.30. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is, first of all, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u215	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to give you a brief introduction to the law on the organisation or amendment of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We have already entered this matter very deeply during today's debate in another law, so let me briefly mention the key changes or amendments. First, the issue addressed by the novel is quality, i.e. evaluation. We're trying to introduce both internal and external evaluation. This means that in this law too quality is one of the first objectives or measure of change. Another is the way to finance where we open the door to a new, more modern way of financing the organisation of the school. This process started a long time ago, a few years ago, and we are trying to make it or integrate it into the school system. First, in the field of secondary education, after thorough evaluation and analysis, we will predict that, a few years later, this system will also be extended to the area of other education, of course, it is already known at the tertiary level. So far, the focus has been on private education, in particular on the issue, in order to also enable the introduction of private education in the field of vocational and vocational education. The second is the elimination of the duality of funding in the private school programme. We have three secondary schools that are funded this instant with 85%, the rest are 100% funded, this difference and we also eliminate discrimination. There is no reason for students of a private school to be discriminated against, deprived of their peers at another school, but 100% funded. It's not just about the students, it's about the teachers. As you know, Slovenia has the lowest share of private education compared to the European Union, 0.12% at primary education and only slightly higher at secondary level, with an average of 14% in secondary education in the European Union and 6.4% in the primary education sector. In short, that's the question. Then, we have also defined or anchored, defined the education of employees in the field of education and education. We have determined that the first Bologna rate is sufficient for preschool education, while the second Bologna rate is sufficient for the rest, with the exception we have just given. And that they also have the opportunity to set up centres, we have abolished the ceiling of 30 kindergartens in a single institution, a single kindergarten. Therefore, the aim of these amendments is not, once again, to stress, not to save, but to raise quality and increase autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u217	So, there is another education law ahead of us, and today there has been quite a few speeches, this is the novel of the Education and Education Financing Act. If we had not read the law in New Slovenia and only listened to the opponents of this novel, we would have thought that the Ministry was really shutting down or threatening public schools to take money and give them private education, even more so as to stop jobs or at least close branches at the expense of setting up private schools. Let's just say there's nothing in the novel that we don't already know and that we don't detect hot water with it. Private schools already exist and are fortunately successful. The fact is that some are now funded 100%, i.e. the education programme, that there will be no ambiguity which is publicly approved by the expert commission and the other 85%. We're wondering what the anomaly is. We were taught that the programs of those schools that were set up before 1996 were funded 100% and others after 1996 only 85%. This is the cause, not the content and quality of the program. Now the novel provides for both 100% funding of the program. To threaten public education, we don't believe it. Perhaps there is no public school on such torn floors, especially since nothing is taken into account in this account. Private schools are at the heart of stumbling and how some fear if there was another private school, even though there are needs and desires in the environment. In New Slovenia we say that competition is always good and we welcome it, especially if it is positive and encourages existing schools to quality. There is no record in the law that any public school will be abolished at the expense of a private school. Moreover, the state is obliged in the school environment to make public school possible. And let me say that in Novi Slovenija we will not agree to close schools if there are few children in a certain environment, and the founder will decide on the existence of the school, otherwise the founder will decide. What a quality private school will always be welcome. And once again, in New Slovenia we support branch schools, all schools in remote areas, in demographically endangered areas. In short, we're against shutting down any public school, even if it's small children. Private schools are also not co-financed by the State in the field of investment, which is attended by public schools. It is right that private capital invests in schools and is welcome, in particular in the field of vocational schools, we expect more interest in establishing schools that are educated for the jobs that the economy needs. In Novi Slovenije we are for a quality school and we also allow the development of private schools because they are rich in school space. But there's other news in the marriage. After this novelty, the state allows for free extension of the stay for children from first to fifth grade, also for morning protection for first class and this country pays 100%. In Novi Slovenija we insist that this is also arranged for morning protection or that it is free for all children who need it because of the working parents. We hope that schools will arrange this within regular hours and that we will not accept any contributions to the morning care of children, those who are not drivers. As for the pooling of schools, kindergartens in the area of shared services, management, governance, as the novel foresees, let us say that this is already going well and that this is not a novelty. This is only rational behavior, but at the same time the director will have more time for pedagogical work, for training, but not to deal, for example, with ordering material, food, the choice of carriers. As it is said, this is voluntary, and it is working well somewhere, especially in the field of secondary schools, and this is not a novelty. New centres or even now some small branch schools are easier to operate because they are under the umbrella of a large school that provides sufficient technical staff. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes, they are welcome and represent a normalisation of the state of funding for programmes, they give the legal possibility of connecting small schools and educational institutions in the area of common services, and they are both optional and do not jeopardise the existence of public schools, even less so that teachers are threatened if enough children are born. And the teachers will teach where the children will be. For parents, children and the country, it is particularly important that we have quality schools and the right to education is guaranteed to all by way of a stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you again for your words, Mr Vice President. Once again a nice greeting from a respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and guests. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the fundamental principles set out in this novel: enabling different forms of education, providing and monitoring a higher quality of the education system, more efficient and rational financing, and accepting the justification of the responsible minister who claims that funding per pupil will not result in the consequences. It should be borne in mind that certain fixed costs remain the same, regardless of the number of pupils. It does not seem likely that this can be solved simply by setting up schools that, in our view, cannot compensate or relieve small schools of all the necessary costs, regardless of the number of students. However, we believe that the competent minister has given this solution a good thought and can justify it, not least with data. We also feel that the establishment of centres is voluntary, so it is not legally binding for founders. It must be taken into account that we have both private and public institutions in education and education. It is known that educational institutions carry out support activities on their own in addition to educational activities, such as accounting, law enforcement, food organisation and maintenance and cleaning of premises. The Institute may conclude a contract with the provider of "supportive" in narration, service, but it is impossible to overlook the fact that such contracts are usually concluded under market conditions. The government strategy adopted in 2005 has, for example, established joint accounting services for the public sector. We agree that the creation of organisational units that would carry out monitoring activities for public institutions would, in particular, reduce the fixed material costs that each educational institution has separately. This would relieve both public institutions and local communities, which, if not necessarily annually, coordinate on funding. In addition, we believe that the educational system should be uniformly regulated, for the whole country, on the principle of equal opportunities or conditions for all inhabitants. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that if we choose to finance from the budget, then such institutions should not be set up to generate income or profits. In our view, the possibility of setting up a centre should also be an opportunity to improve the quality of work of institutions or schools, kindergartens and so on. The possibility of carrying out certain functions for schools and kindergartens within municipal administrations and other persons of public law is further clarified in the law, since it has so far been determined in practice because of a lack of clarity. In the Slovenian People's Party we support decentralisation in the country because we are convinced that it is a condition for more equitable development of Slovenia. We therefore support decentralisation in financing education, which will be possible through this legislative change. The new funding method, according to the applicant, is based on a survey of the so-called MOFAS project gradually, for all secondary schools, high schools, secondary schools and higher vocational schools by 2012. Until then, certain schools in the field of secondary education will still be subject to arrangements and, if effective, can also be used for other institutions. The purpose of the law, which seeks to give students and parents the choice and results of higher quality education, certainly follows the principles and objectives of the 1996 White Paper, which envisages private education as a complement to the public school network. We are convinced that the solutions proposed ensure and maintain the accessibility of the public school network. The aim of the proposed law is understandable to bring the proportion of private schools closer to the average of European countries by 2013. It is well known that Slovenia is far behind in the number of private schools - private primary schools only 0.12% of students and middle school 2.02% - which for us in comparable European countries is, say, primary school, as we have already heard from the minister, 6.4% and 14% for secondary school. We support the main legislative solutions that want to enable the establishment of publicly applicable programmes for private schools in vocational and vocational education and the co-financing of private schools implementing these programmes under certain conditions. The guarantee for the preservation of public schools provided that the State would ensure the accessibility of public primary schools to primary school students, irrespective of the existence of a private primary school. We agree that the State co-finances private schools under conditions such as: to ensure the implementation of the entire educational programme, it is said, from the first to the final class or year; that the music school in the educational, music programme teaches at least three orchestral instruments and has at least 35 students enrolled; that they have employed or otherwise provided teachers or educators required to carry out the public-level private school programme in accordance with the law and other regulations. And what we think is very important is that they represent a substantive complement to the public school network or that they contribute to the possibility of exercising the constitutional right of parents to direct the upbringing of their children. It is therefore appropriate to eliminate the duality of private school funding, 85% and 100%, as has been the case so far, for example in the Netherlands and in other comparable countries, by using the prescribed methodology to create an amount of funding for participants in education in accordance with the standards and standards applicable to public schools. Private schools still do not have funds for investment and investment maintenance. We believe that it is justified to determine which private schools are subject to the determination of the contributions of students and students to cover the expenditure covered by the State budget or the local community budget. All students must have equal opportunities regardless of which country they come from. We therefore agree that private education should not create distinctions based on the material situation of children or their parents. Helping students and students who, due to their social situation, are unable to fully pay certain food contributions, the material costs of a school in nature charged by both public and private schools will no longer be conditional on the student or student attending the school. Finally, the Club of Mayors of the Slovenian People's Party supported the decision that the law allows 30 departments to be defined as the upper limits of the number of departments in the framework of the independent public kindergarten, thus allowing the municipality to decide. This amendment does not require but only allows for the organisation of larger kindergartens where such a need will appear and thus the possibility of achieving lower protection prices paid by parents. Finally, we believe that it is necessary to adopt a proposal from the Ministry in order to administratively link the process of determining the operators of the educational programmes adopted by the Minister or the competent professional council and the procedure for entering the alert. The changes that improve the system and especially the quality of education are certainly welcome, so we consider the amendment to the law to be worthy of our support and, of course, further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u221	Another similar beginning. In January 2005, when you took part in the ministry, you said that basic and pre-school education needed to be regulated or modified, but that all changes would take place gradually, so that they would only be based on the reasoned results, the analysis of the situation and also taking into account the advantages of the current system's weaknesses. You said at the outset when you began to rule, that you would open public debates, that you would stimulate communication with the public, and that you would also accept and reject opinions. Minister, you also said that a union consensus was needed in all structural reforms, that it was crucial and that no reform could be carried out without it. This was said in January 2005, but then came in 2006, it came in 2007, and this year and this month it happens that the union's arguments are marked by the head of your cabinet as political action. And it marks them as a political debate that has nothing to do with educational activities. You have dismissed the unions by labeling them or by trying to discipline them as if they were politically engaged. Well, the whole story, where you indefinitely, even this afternoon, you say that dialogue is, we see it was gone, and we are crucified between weighing one and the other reflections. And if we listen to those who are rational and who are based on the majority position of the profession, you simply rename that as the opposition profession. If you, Minister, have seen with unions as much as you said every day - I do a little caricature of your statement, but it had this intention - why did they then send all the expertise to you and to others, 14, 20 pages, why so many correspondences, why so many open questions that we still have to repeat today because the answers are different. Why call for an extension of the debate, why the requirements for the integration of the Economic and Social Council, why, why - and you say: that's why! So that we can now move outwardly between one position and another and leave the politics with what it can do with power. There are fundamental differences between established experts and you, the Ministry, in terms of change and how to achieve a better school system. Why is that? Perhaps even because most of the proposed amendments are not properly substantiated, they do not convince us because they have counter-arguments. And on top of that, those of you who have been preparing the changes are now silent and you don't publicly argue them much. Of course, I wonder where is the moral attitude of those who have written changes to hide behind you, Mr Minister, and that they do not put their minds on the plan or the word. If nothing else is contrary to the government's promises to act transparently and to keep its work regularly informed and involved in the public and to your promises when you come to power and now, as I see it or as we see it, you are using it. It is not true that the 100% funding of private education is correcting something that has been poorly regulated so far, nor is it true that this will eliminate injustices because now some private schools are financed 100%, the other 80%. Minister, you say that with the transition to 100% private school funding you eliminate an unequal position when one is financed more and one less. And that this will not put public education at risk, especially because it will happen in some cases. Once opened, the hunt is open when it opens, the possibility is that we can also go beyond what you say is an example in the European Union or elsewhere. Perhaps even in the United States, where studies pay so much, those who can study, those who don't, are harder. In short, it's bad math, because if you don't add it to a quota that belongs to a public education that's dedicated to education, if you don't add anything, then you have to take it somewhere, because that's logic for a primary school. We argue that public education will have poorer operating conditions in the long term than private education, as private education has other sources of funding. As a rule, they are tuitions, contributions to the superstandard, contributions to the founders and so on. And the question is, if private schools, as you say, will withdraw the tuition, there will be no tuition. Aren't they just going to be called different? If they are abolished, as you say, according to the contributions of the founders and the so-called parental contributions, private schools will be in a better position than public education. It doesn't take a lot of brains not to come to that conclusion. That is why I insist on the claim that in the item Parental contributions, as you call them, hides the retention of school fees, even with 100% funding for private schools. The private school will simply define the contribution as a contribution to the standard and will charge it at any level. That's how I understand. Of course, it is true whether or not this contribution is then called tuition at this time may be completely irrelevant and may not affect the level of the amount that will go from the parents' budget to the cashier's private school. And right here, there may also be a certain extension for private schools to offer more and better than public schools. And if, Minister, you seriously believe that public schools will charge contributions at the same level as private schools, then of course we can only talk about whether contributions or fees will be made to private schools and at what amounts they will have, which we do not know. And we don't even know how high the parent's contribution can be, so we can call it tuition. You say that private schools or you write that private schools do not have the means to invest, to invest, and to provide equipment. By the way, in some cases this is not necessary, given that denationalisation procedures have done their part and there is no need to reintroduce investments. But private schools can participate, as we read in the articles, in school equipment programmes in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister. That's not to be ruled out. In short, most claim that out of 100% of private school funding, the Catholic Church will have the greatest benefit, and this is probably not a place to be blinded. Let me use maybe not the most convenient comparison, but according to the logic of things, there is one common denominator. Why, for example, is the public service in the field of the media, in the field of the public service of RTV Slovenia, defined as a public service and paid with a contribution? Because the state requires something from it, it expects something and expects the content that private RTV does not provide because it is commercially oriented and does not need to provide certain content that the public service has to provide. The commercial sector, of course, the private sector can be regulated, but it does not have to be paid according to this logic. The paradox is that the state will pay private schools in full and it will rationalise the public. And this rationalisation is, of course, questionable further when we meet with the law at the place where we talk about financing on the head, on a piece, because it can lead to schools and kindergartens even in some way violently increasing the entry to get more money. We can also get into such situations, of course, by increasing the number of departments, because funding per piece or on the head brings more benefits to both. Minister, you're also talking about the concept of deregulation of education, which is supposed to be understood as greater freedom, freedom of schools from the state. And this is equal to greater autonomy. I warn or not, those who are more committed to this area warn that less dependence on the state can also mean greater dependence on other environments, such as local environments, can happen here if I quote an expert from this area that "it is a step from the rain under the fall." The establishment of school centres, that is to say the abolition of some subjectivity of kindergartens and schools or the formation of large, opaque entities, is also due to rationalisation. That is, if I cariculate, one less accounting, but one more director, combined work with less flexibility, could be called that. If we are actually doing so well in Slovenia or because we are doing what we listen to a lot of times, then we could say why to save, rationalize and seek ways, a way out of that segment that is supposed to be a wedding, so that the situation in our country is even better so that we are the best to be at the top of the world. The Ministry explains this change only by allowing several different forms of integration, greater autonomy in the establishment of public institutions, etc. But the problem is that the bill-maker himself does not hope, can or can say already - I am not saying that we do not know how to read this, or perhaps also - what variants of organisation will we get on the basis of these articles and under the cover of some autonomy in the end. I also do not know whether the Minister knows whether such organised institutions will still have all those characteristics or attributes such as schools and kindergartens today and how individual organisational forms will affect the quality of the educational process. I think these are questions that should have answers. And the Minister should not try to satisfy the wishes of local, religious and other communities in this area, but rather the demands of meaningful professional organisation of education. Minister, you also claim that it is already possible to merge small institutions and thus the function of director at the level of the centre, etc. In short, this reorganisation is already possible. It's true, but it's a merger with the principal, not the director we're talking about in this law. The difference between one and the other is that there is a big difference between the director and the director, namely that the principal is also a teacher’s leader, while the director is the one who takes care of the business or is a kind of management body. Of course, this reorganisation leaves open questions to which you are likely to answer today, perhaps in the future, by how much will the number of employees in the accompanying activities be reduced if schools and kindergartens are connected to the centres and how many schools and kindergartens are expected to connect to the centre. Further, if I mention some of the things that disturb us in this law, the changes in the law or leave too many open questions, let's say a decrease in the competence of the professional council for general education in the field of vocational and vocational education. Here we see that the expert board will only be an opinion give an opinion on the programme. It's not a big decision, or there's a lot of consensus around here. But it's a professional body. I could also talk about the removal of safeguards to ensure the possibility of public school attendance in its school environment, as was discussed today. And if you'll excuse me, I have to go back to private and public education. The changes allow the minister to finance a private school in a school environment, despite the fact that public school will be emptied. And for the establishment of a public school, there are at least two departments that have been prescribed for private school funding, and there is no minimum number of children, but only departments, which is problematic, because private schools that will be established in such an environment where their existence will be threatened, let's say, in that environment, the only public school, under the old legislation, will not be eligible for public funding, but will now be. And they will no longer be sanctioned. Of course, there is no answer to this question as to how far away from the home of the student, the nearest public primary school, or how large the smallest school environment can be. But these are the details, the details that I think we should not be dealing with today, but should be closed before you come to the National Assembly. And if you followed what you said in January 2005 and followed all the comments that were given and all the discussions that doubted certain solutions, then you probably wouldn't have forced us here to decide things that not only have consensus but also the right professional answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. I will also be critical this time in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Group of the Slovenian National Parties. I will be critical in particular of those changes introduced quickly, introduced by the professions, introduced past, I don't know, consensus, dialogue, the wider professional public. Last but not least, thank God, because I am an opposition Member and it is right to point out the irregularities that are taking place in individual policies or policies of individual ministers. It is, and I will say again: We strongly oppose the privatisation of the public sector in the Slovenian National Party. What is happening with the proposed school reform is, hand in hand, a step towards the privatisation of the public sector in the field of education. What the Minister is doing, specifically in the field of public primary education, is a policy of creating inequalities. I've said this a couple of times today. It will have, I hope, long-term consequences that the Minister has not been able to calculate in marriage. We have not seen the analysis, we do not know the answers to many of the questions raised, what individual changes will actually bring into practice. The law on financing education and education is similar to the law that we have dealt with a little earlier, and the law on primary school is said to be inconsistent. Class warnings - the primary school system, these are fundamental changes without serious analysis of the existing situation, without a wider consensus in the profession. Minister, I am sorry that you are not having a dialogue, I am really sorry, despite the fact that you are misleading the general public, but we have not heard from you many times today how very constructive you have been in your dialogue with the parliamentary groups. But you know, having a constructive dialogue without the opposite side seeing the marriage draft, it's bad, I'll say, your policy of managing or creating dialogue. And I have already mentioned at the previous point the chronological course of events when adopting amendments to school legislation by the Education and Education Union. And I believe the Minister because you waved at me that you have this document, too, if not, then I will tell you in the next debate how your coordination with the specific education and education union was going on. The law is, I say, highly politicized. However, according to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Parties, public education is too important to be subject to the short-term interests of the current political authorities. The law actually favours private schools, with the Minister seeking excuses in the percentage of private schools, basic private schools within the European Union. I stress that the public school in Slovenia has a very important tradition. What we accept today is a new funding system, a new system for financing private primary education. After the new, this private primary education will be fully funded, i.e. 100%. The average funding for private schools within the European Union is still 85%, but we are very European-oriented. The Minister of the Beast said a while ago that in his or I will quote him, "It is in my interest that public school does not have a guaranteed monopoly", the end of the quote. I stress that when we talk about education, it is not about market goods, but it is about public goods, a public system that must enable everyone to have a level playing field for basic knowledge. It's primary school. And talking about market goods, about the monopoly in education, is unserious, unserious and to a large extent disturbing. We will be able to talk about the monopoly when there will be competition between religious institutions, which will actually draw more money from the country, I will say, to spread their educational concepts. Then we can talk about competition. How many private schools, primary schools will we receive in Slovenia? I'm interested in that information. There must be some estimates, if the minister hopes to announce it, that was published in the newspaper days ago, so that by 2013 the proportion of private schools will be closer to the average in the European Union. How many private schools will Slovenia receive and who are those privates or will those individuals who will establish private primary schools? If I now touch on the very law on financing education and education, or only those key changes, the most important changes introduced by the law. Bringing schools together because it's supposed to be too expensive. I'm asking, in what way, where? Higher standards in the direction of more children to teachers. I must say, that's a bad policy. This is a shift from a tendency towards more individual treatment, in the field of, in particular, working with children with developmental disorders, in fact, almost identical action has been taken before, eliminating individual treatment, is a poor policy, a shift from profession. The lower required level for future teachers is also introduced under new school legislation, including in the area of pre-school education. I'm saying it's going to come from bringing schools together to some new centers to lay off their staff. What assessments have been made in this area? How many teachers in the field of preschool education will remain unemployed? The administration is supposed to be moving out of school. And, as has already been said, the intention of preschool education, kindergartens are too expensive, this has been highlighted in public several times. There's a tendency to be more accessible. Appreciation by lowering standards, lowering the level of required vocational education for educators, is a bad policy. The proposals are controversial, and I believe that these are proposals that will primarily affect children and put jobs at risk. As far as private primary schools are concerned. I will focus on private primary schools as well as kindergartens. The Law on Financing Education and Education introduces change in order to facilitate the establishment of private schools and kindergartens. That's what I'm saying, yes. On several occasions, the Minister has publicly stated that his desire is, I don't know, to make a more competitive education by setting up private schools. A much more meaningful policy would be, but I have already said today, to create better conditions on the part of the private sector in order to find an interest in co-financing public education. Therefore, private primary schools will receive the same funding as public schools. Rationalisation in public education is being introduced. But this rationalisation, I say, goes into private education because the financing of the private school programme is actually equivalent to public schools and I say that despite the minister's assurance, the fees will remain only that these fees will be renamed to, I don't know, some contribution or whatever it will be called. And it's not just about equalizing private and public primary schools. You know, the law clearly and loudly states that public school funding standards are different from private school funding standards. Normatives for financing private schools are virtually gone, they are being abolished. I mentioned rationalisation in public education at the expense of private education. If the Minister claims otherwise, then it would be very reasonable for the Minister to submit the analysis that this is not the case. Funding for students threatens the network of public schools, we claim in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. It also threatens the existence of branch and rural schools with a small number of students. The fact is that the number of children in public schools will increase as a result of this change, which is pure logic to follow, I believe, many schools. This, of course, means poorer quality as well as lower standards of conditions. With regard to the reduction of accessibility to public schools, the amendment to Article 87 no longer protects the only public school in the school environment from competition by a private school. Only the right of a student to attend a public school is guaranteed. At the same time, the private school is still being funded, and this is the key change, a very important change, or the kind of protection that Minister Beast is removing. It's lowering the level, I've already mentioned the required education. I argue, despite the fact that at the previous point, the minister said that this was not the case, or he was citing a philosophy or introduction of the Bologna system into our school system. As regards the introduction of educational centres, yes, I say that the only objective is to rationalise the functioning of public schools. Change of intervention into the basics of school organisation. The Administrative Board, the tasks are not known, are laid down in the founding act. As far as the composition is concerned, only one employee representative is concerned, which means that it is only a continuation of the process that started last year by reducing the number of employees in the world of institutions. This suggests or leads to politicization. The law even allows schools and kindergartens united in the centre to operate without a principal, a council of schools and a council of parents, provided that this is the case for the establishment act. The Minister then deceives when he claims that it is the establishment of centres for decommissioning administrators. And I say, even on the basis of the opinion of the professional public and trade unions, organisational changes are confusing and imprudent. In this presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, I will not long touch on the individual issues that remain open because of the "very effective coordination" between the Minister or the Ministry and the general public. However, I say that this policy is very bad. And if someone in this place today claims otherwise that the minister's desire is not merely to rationalise the public education system, then I demantle him at this point. I am disputing with the words of the Secretary of State, who made it clear a while ago that the wishes are on the one hand and on the other there are finances. But it is sad that this rationalisation takes place on a system of accessible public education for all. Education is also included here in, yes, sadly, and on the other hand there is increasing financial resources for private individuals, private education. I would like to say that private schools will, in fact, have no conditions, no serious conditions under the law to receive 100% funding for their education programmes, unlike public schools, that private schools will be in a privileged position, including due to double funding or multi-layer funding. In the Slovenian National Party, because of all these doubts, the weaknesses brought by the law, even to the President of the Government, we have called on this legislation to withdraw from consideration and to include it in further broader debate, where, of course, if it were will, a consensus and a good solution could be found. But apparently no one is prepared to do so, in fact, within this government policy. I therefore very much doubt that the second and third readings will be followed by so much wisdom that any amendment or proposal by the opposition or by the unions will be taken into account, by the section that made the most specific comments on the proposal for this law, on the very good professional comments. That is why we will not support such a proposal in the first reading in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u225	Nice greetings to all present. The proposal for a law at systemic level contains monitoring, evaluation and quality assurance at both national and school levels, i.e. self-evaluation. The proposal foresees the introduction, monitoring, evaluation of new parts of public programmes, the competent public institution, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education, the Andragog Centre of the Republic of Slovenia. On a proposal from the competent public authority or the competent professional council, the Minister may provide that new parts of the programmes in force, implementation or quality solutions in the field of organisation and pre-introduction financing shall be checked in selected schools and schools with experience, and may also prohibit further implementation of the experiment if the prescribed educational standard is not reached or the rights of children, students, students and students are otherwise violated. The criteria and procedures for determining and providing quality at national level and the proposals for evaluation studies shall be adopted by the Minister on a proposal from the Quality and Evaluation Board. The Quality and Evaluation Board shall be appointed by the Minister and shall determine his or her powers. The financing change follows the findings of the Modernisation of Finance and Administrative System project. In line with the legal change, a new method of funding can be introduced gradually for all secondary schools, high schools, secondary schools and higher vocational schools. The aim of the changes in the field of workers in education and school is to align the required education for professional workers in the field of education and education with the amendments to the Higher Education Act and the Professional and Scientific Titles Act. And now for private schools. Private schools - yes, but it is a problem in the villages to maintain a public school. There are 80, 90 students in the whole neighborhood. This is also true in public schools where there are no children. This will once again be a major gap between the village and the city, as it is difficult to maintain public education in rural areas. However, public education needs to be maintained because rural areas remain urban, different institutions remain and people remain there to have children to go to. I think private education is only going to be able to do that in big cities. And then where do children have the same options? Nowhere. I would also like to draw attention to the problems of financing kindergartens. The prices of kindergarten are extremely high, and they are much higher than the salaries of parents. And parents want to pay for their little ones, but it's not possible. That's how the little ones stay home, and the kindergartens are empty. There's a lot less kids if there could be. But we start in kindergarten. By not allowing every child to go to kindergarten, we are missing out on the possibility of education. The municipalities where the population is economically weaker must contribute instead of the parents' high tax and they do not receive these taxes from the country forever. I have a few more questions. I am not at peace with why teachers don't get paid from the country, because they are also educators, and I think it would be only right, although in the surrounding countries they don't get paid from the country, why wouldn't we be more, I would say, just because teachers are just as pedagogical workers. Hence, they should not have to be paid from parental contributions. But we should not feel sorry for the money because it would be the best money invested in the future in the youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very nice greeting. We have before us a law that has some parts that have already been spoken very much. But to put them in the right frame, let's see what the Slovenian Constitution actually says. This says that parents have the right to provide their children with education, including moral education, freedom of expression and the right to participate in the management of public affairs, in accordance with their beliefs. This is, of course, possible only on the basis of reliable, real and complete data. And the 57th article of course says that education is free, but basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds, not that it can be financed, but that it must be financed by public funds, which is exactly what that formulation means. The law foresees some changes that, if we take a good look at them, can only be positive. Above all, it creates the possibility for a private company, such as a private company, the economy, to set up a vocational school. You'll say it's nothing special. Yes, for the time being, this seems to be a major problem, given the debate so far. But this system, which operates across Europe, reaches 10 percent and more, for example, in Finland it reaches as much as 17%. Then why is what is proposed in this law so controversial? There's got to be something else. It is probably clear from what I have said to everyone that only a changed method of funding, which also leaves the municipalities with the possibility of choosing for themselves how to do the business under which schools are financed, and that from this point of view there is no fear of any such consequences that some of you have drawn as the devil on the wall, that is to say that this law all the things you have listed so far is lying. But it's something else. Those of you who have spoken know very well that all history proves only one thing, that only competition establishes and sustains the highest quality of some good. In this case, knowledge. But it's not just about knowledge at all, because virtually all of you have missed out on another important quality. And that's education. And only together does both of them have the greatest effect, giving what the Slovenian Constitution guarantees. And those who deny the choice actually deny the constitutional right to anyone who sees things differently because of their personal beliefs, but perhaps only because of the information available to them. I am firmly convinced and can also give this a challenge to the minister, whom I very much appreciate to be asked in the last year of school, without having to pass exams, could be a survey, the next questions to children. Let him ask for the name and surname of the author of this formulation, which is extremely important when we assess Slovenian independence. I quote: "...some people really dream of some kind of independent Slovenia, but we will never let them do this because we know that our only country is Yugoslavia." How many kids do you think today could answer that question? I'm afraid they'd be counted on their hands all over Slovenia. Then he can ask the second question: "Under what signs did the last invader, who disgracefully killed civilians with cluster bombs from planes, leave Slovenian territory in disgrace? Under what sign did he do all this?" I am very interested in how many children can answer this question right now. And when it comes to a sightseeing test, a question of morality and ethics, it would be an interesting question: "What happened yesterday?" I wonder how many children could answer that yesterday was a historic day for Slovenia, because the designation of Dr. Jožet Pučnik's airport was an act when, for the first time in Slovenia alone, an important object was named after the victim and not after the criminal. I want to know how many children can answer. Maybe some people think it's funny, some people I just heard, you laugh. But, fellows, some of us think it's important, because without knowing these facts, you can't really judge, not our history, and you can't judge the real or the present moment. Without knowing these basics, you can not assess this, but you can have the best knowledge, the most information in memory, that in fact yesterday was in some way the day we witnessed the first actual act of reconciliation in Slovenia, because something was named after the victim and not after the criminal. It is therefore a question of whether we will allow some competition to be established, which will allow those who mean something to them; and believe me, it means a great deal to me personally; allowing them to raise their children in such a way as to know simple facts. And that's where the answer lies why there was such a circus and why some of the arguments you pulled on your hair when it came to contradicting this law. Because you're afraid of the truth, but for God's sake, we really can't help you. The truth comes sooner or later. It is therefore only a question of whether we will allow a constitutional right to be fully realized, or whether we will deny this constitutional right. And by the way, those of you who don't know what kind of sin you've listed as 100% financing of private schools have forgotten that you wrote this yourself in a white book over a decade ago, that you've made this kind of decision yourself and then you've obviously scared yourself. And now it's just that we're somehow correcting this mistake of yours. For this reason, I firmly believe that this law means a new quality, that this law is only one that will fully enable the realization of constitutional rights, not only education, but also education, in line with the belief of parents, which will allow for choice and which will create positive competition in the sense that the highest quality of both education and education will be achieved, of course, in accordance with the beliefs of individual parents who have this right under the Constitution. For this reason, we will, of course, support this law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the second place, I welcome the Minister and his team. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is already so that I will have to repeat part of my performance, as the last paragraph of the famous public debate agenda in the context of the amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, where the applicants have left out a single issue, that is to say, because quality was mentioned in the Basic School Act. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education has been sent to the Ministry for partnership coordination, but it has also been decided by the Social Democrats that the proposed legislative changes are conceptually unacceptable to us, so we have given up coordination. The main observation by the Social Democrats is based on the adoption of legislation that is not consistent with the social partners. We were not aware of the professional basis for such changes and of the impact on the quality of education, public finances and the school network. In particular, I would like to draw attention to these two because, in all the numerous discussions and attempts to respond to the comments, we have not received any solid evidence or indication of what the school network is supposed to be at the level of primary education, at the level of general secondary education and at the level of vocational and vocational education. The Minister of Education's claim that the percentage of private schools will not exceed 10% did not receive any concrete answer when I asked questions on how he would react to local community decisions if they decided to finance investment maintenance or even co-finance private education investments. If this cannot be prevented, the Minister cannot say with certainty how much private education will be involved and what the financial implications will be for the budget. The amount referred to in the draft law shall be indicated only for the existing 6 private schools. How many kindergartens, primary schools or vocational and vocational schools will be there, we have not yet been able to find out. For Social Democrats, access to services and education is a fundamental value. International conventions refer to the accessibility of education. That is why we will always be committed to maintaining a network of public schools. The establishment of private schools creates a competitive market where schools will be publicly financed. We stress that we are not against private schools, but we are for quality public schools. And it is difficult to explain logically the establishment written by the Minister for Education and Sport in a letter to Members and Members to introduce private schools and to finance private schools from public funds means, in fact, an inflow into public finances. I don't understand it, and I'm gonna ask him if we can explain it later. Knowledge is a public good, so everything relating to school policy should be adopted by consensus. I have said this on behalf of the parliamentary group in the primary school law, and so much more so is the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, because we are actually deciding on some essential thing. We decide what kind of school we want to have: whether it be public or largely public or whether it is a private school. We have nothing, I emphasize, against private school. However, we are opposed to private school financing from public funds. We also have the decision of the European Court of Human Rights that the state must only create opportunities for private schools to be established, but it is not obliged to finance them. And now it would be good to look at the proposal, in the introductory chapter of the bill, which I am talking about, where on page 15 of the table we would see a table showing many people in support of the increase in the proportion of private schools, why private education should also be promoted in Slovenia. There are a number of countries in the table, not just European countries, but 19 from the European Union, and there is an average of 87% of public primary schools. And then we hear that Slovenia is deeply below the average of private schools. Of course it is, but we must say that this average is created by three countries, better said two countries with a predominantly private education. This is Belgium, which has only 45.3% of public schools, and the Netherlands, which has only 31.1% of public schools. Well, Spain has 68% of public schools, Denmark and Portugal are approaching 90%, and 16 schools since 19 have really fewer private schools than the average of 19 countries. But that's the concept they decided on. That is why I say that it is essential for the Social Democrats to finally answer the question of what schools we stand for. And we say that we stand up for quality public schools, and for private schools, when they mean either complementing them in new methods, or filling an empty space where the public network of schools does not cover the enrolment of children. Now we have to think about closing public schools because of demographic trends, and we are opening up a place to set up private schools and making it unreasonable to facilitate the establishment of conditions. This is a question that is not ideological, but it is very clear why we are talking about the need to answer fundamental questions. Allow me to touch some other things that are subject to the law or the event of this law. The Ministry of Education and Sport has only set a 14-day deadline for the most profound changes in the organisation and funding of education and education after 1996 for comments and rejected all calls, both the SWIZ, the Professional Council for General Education, the Department of Pedagogy and Andragogika of the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana, the Community of kindergartens of Slovenia, the Association of Directors and Directors of kindergartens, the Diajska Organization, the Association of Associations of Educational Workers and the Association of Parents of the Councils of Ljubljana Basic Schools, to extend discussions on changes in the law on the organisation and financing of education and education due to the complexity and long-term consequences. Two initiatives were also intended to produce a new White Paper on education and education for such fundamental systemic changes. SWIZ has even offered the possibility of financing such research. The amendment of the law opens up new possibilities for financing private schools. The 1996 Act has already enabled the financing of publicly applicable private school programmes to 100%. And it is known that three high schools are so funded. However, those established after 1996 were financed by 85%. The argument for 100% financing of private schools from public funds is that it is discriminatory if all schools are not funding 100%. What is discrimination? The goal of 100% funding at the beginning of 1996 was clear: to encourage the emergence of private schools. And just for illustration. Private schools, which were financed 100%, also required a contribution from their parents. Well, since the data was given to me by the mother of a high school who had already completed this education, the data is in tolars, 16,000 tolars had to be paid each month by parents at a private school, even though this was financed 100%. It should be stressed that there is a great interest that exists for the establishment of private schools, in particular from the point of view of one institution. In my assessment of the financial implications, as has been said, I have already mentioned that these financial implications are listed only for the existing number of private schools. How this will cut into public funds in the coming years, we do not know what to say. Private schools are competitive with public schools due to new opportunities for private schools to apply equally to programs for financing equipment and teaching aids. If we add to this the resources that the founder of a private school can contribute, there is no doubt that private schools have better baselines for quality education than public schools. And here is the question of how the Minister for Education and Sport can ensure that the salaries of employees in private schools are the same as those of those who will work in public schools. How's he gonna control the side effects? The public school network is also at risk of a changed way of funding a student. It threatens the existence of branch and rural schools with a small number of students. The possibility of closing these schools raises an extremely important issue of internal migration. It may also be assumed that the number of children in public school departments will increase due to the changed mode of funding. What will be the standards and standards in private schools? Private school supervision is limited. The law introduces the establishment of educational centres whose sole aim is to rationalise the functioning of public schools. Although it is not clear how much the innovation will save, if any, a change affects the basics of school organisation. The last time was a fact that the Group of Social Democrats proposed the organisation of support activities for several schools in a special centre used to defend the solution proposed in this law. I would like to point out that that proposal, which was not adopted by the way, has nothing to do with the proposal contained in this novel. It is a matter of different organisational options in which all are left to the founding acts, and they affect not least the rights of workers to co-management. And if anyone wonders why the union has so many comments at the expense of this law, if not in point 2, it certainly has the right to express its dissatisfaction in this amendment, because it is not in line with it. It is also unclear how different authorities will play a role in the management of the individual unit connected to the centre in these flexible forms of the organisation of the centres. Since it is no longer necessary for such a institution to have its own world, nor for the parental world to have it, it is also open to the principal not to speak of anything else. We also do not have a precise response to how these organisational changes will affect the number of employees in the accompanying activities, how this will affect the movement of employees with other organizational changes, such as the suspension of extended stay in the sixth grade. On these issues, it might also indicate an answer to the question of how the entire registration process will be carried out. Will the conditions be reviewed by the same professional service even if the minister places a new programme on display by an unregistered institution. Specific comments shall be made in the context of the quality assurance system. Not that the Social Democrats have any doubts about this. We advocate the need to introduce a national quality assurance system, but must be uniform for public and private schools, and not only in the hands of the Minister, but also in the appointment of a quality council, as well as in certain other solutions that are proposed. A particular issue is the solutions concerning the competences of the General Education Council. Since the beginning of this mandate, the professional general education council has been the pain of the current establishment at the Ministry of Education and Sport. This has proved to be true in the appointment of members, as it now shows in what competences the general education world should have, and I doubt that the general education world has agreed to decommission its powers. This doubt arises from the Social Democrats, arguing that the Minister for Education and Sport did not object to the proposed changes by the Council of Experts. And so I could also mention the concerns we have with the social democrats. I will only mention one more reason why the methodology is left to standards and standards to resolve some of the solutions that are necessary, which are related to the proposed changes, which will affect work at schools and quality, and should therefore be linked to the union's landing. If I snore. Despite constant efforts to explain and convince us that the coordination procedures have run properly, that the comments have been taken into account, first heard and then taken into account, it is important to note that what has been taken into account is few, and therefore, in all key solutions, the applicants have persisted and we also insist on social democrats in their position that we cannot support such a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Member of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the interested public who is following us! At the beginning of the presentation of the position of the LDS Club on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, I would like to remind everyone in the Chamber and the Slovenian public of the statements made by Dr. Beast, which were already presented in this Chamber in part today, when he presented himself as a candidate for Minister for Education and Education in November 2006 to the Parliamentary Committee. He also stated, among other things, that if he became Minister of Education and Sport, he would not radically interfere with such a sensitive system as the school system that shapes people, personalities. At the time, he felt that any unwise intervention in such an important area could have disastrous consequences. He frankly said that he had not yet been in this area and that he had no experience in this area, but would certainly advocate a policy of small steps and improvements and the continuation of substantive and structural reforms. After almost three years of managing the Ministry of Education and Sport, we can assess that the Minister has confirmed in his work that he does not have much experience in this area. His work, however, cannot be assessed as a policy of small steps, but by introducing changes, he has reached very deeply into school space and has already introduced some radical changes. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education that we are considering today is only the continuation of radical interventions into a sensitive school system. Thus, we can only find that the Minister has completely forgotten his words that any unwise intervention in this area can have disastrous consequences. According to an assessment by the LDS Club, the proposed amendments and additions to the law on organised financing of education and education are not based on the necessary analysis, which would be necessary to prepare amendments and to supplement the law and assess the current situation. In the LDS, we are convinced that some of the changes are necessary and necessary, so together with Ambassador Gabro and the Group of Social Democrats, we have asked the Minister to prepare a new White Paper to show which segments or areas of school legislation should be reformed. Unfortunately, the Minister has remained deaf to both our proposals and our calls, and has also remained deaf to the comments of the social partners, and has in particular neglected their role in co-forming the marriage text. Here today you no longer need to be informed about this letter, which we have received from 13 organisations and societies in the field of education and education. But such a practice can now be seen in other areas of the work of this government. Instead of cooperation and partnership, we are Members of Parliament to explain to the social partners or to the professional and interested public the inadmissibility of certain legal solutions and the inappropriate procedure for drafting the legislative text. That it is possible to attach to their arguments, there is also a letter from the Minister of the Beast, the President of the National Assembly concerning the positions and statements of the leader of our Member Club, Mr Jožef Školč, regarding the consideration of the above-mentioned law and the basic school law, where the Minister Dr. Zver tries to reject concerns about the non-cooperation of the professional and interested public with regard to the preparation of legislative proposals. Unfortunately, it's very unconvincing. He also listens to the fact that when the LDS presented the annual work plan of the Ministry of Education and Sport, Members had the opportunity to co-form legislative initiatives. It is clear to every layman that a good hour and a half of the ongoing discussion cannot be serious substantive discussions, although we have already given the Minister a clear message that we do not agree with most of the solutions presented orally. As I said in the introduction, we have a number of concerns in the LDS Club about the proposed legislative changes, but in particular we lack a thorough analysis of the state and assessment of the consequences of the proposed changes. We also miss the presentation of experts who participated in the text and their clear support for the proposed amendments. However, we regret, of course, that the Government has sent an uncoordinated law to Parliament, which brings important news into the education and education system. We are therefore concerned that the Government does not give sufficient importance to education and education and that it is not aware that prosperity for all will be achieved only if we build a system of public schools that will allow access to quality education for the largest possible number of Slovenes and Slovenes. Although the Minister repeatedly reiterates that the aim of legislative changes is primarily to increase the quality of education, the wording of the articles is mainly to rationalise primary and secondary education. How else to understand the proposal to integrate public kindergartens and schools into educational centres, thus eliminating the legal entities of the integrated kindergartens and schools. A substantial number of questions are raised, such as answers, while increasing the impact of local and state authorities, which is contrary to so many times the emphasis on greater autonomy of schools and kindergartens. Thus, it is not clear tasks to be carried over to the established centre are not clearly formed bodies in the combined public schools and schools. It is also stated that the delimitation of powers between the authorities of the Centre and the bodies of the Joint Public Schools and schools is defined by an act establishing it. There is no clear response to the warning that such integration could also involve increased bureaucracy and that, instead of increasing quality, they would even witness its decline. We also note in the marriage text the amended or reduced role of the General Education Council in the field of vocational and vocational education. The changes have been introduced without a clear explanation or assessment of the current solution or poor practice. We cannot help but feel that the aim of change is to reduce the role and importance of the world for general education. Although we have made clear to the Minister and his colleagues at the already mentioned meeting of the presentation of the annual work plan in our House of Members that we have expressed concerns or disagreement with the proposed amended way of financing private schools, the legislative text of that amendment, of course, introduces the amendment. It introduces them in a way where financing of private schools, except for investments, investment maintenance and equipment, is equivalent to financing of public schools. We are opposed to this in the parliamentary club, but in particular we are opposed to the Minister's argument for this change to correct the so far poor regime that provides private schools with funding from a budget of 85% of the funds they receive from public schools. In doing so, we would like to point out that the international comparison shows that this is a relatively high proportion of the funds allocated to private education in Europe. In doing so, it is necessary to draw attention to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, which imposes upon countries the duty to systematically enable private schools to be established and not to be financed. Furthermore, the argument that this amendment eliminates the unfair double funding of private schools is unconvincing. One is financed by 100 and the other is financed by 85%. In itself, another option is offered. All private schools are funded only 85% or are there any levels between 85 and 100? However, despite the changes, double funding will remain, as funding for private primary schools will continue to be 85% in line with the bill. Therefore, persevering in 100% funding is not in eliminating the disharmony or in correcting the injustices, but in the fact that this change will benefit the Catholic Church most. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that we recognize the right of parents to raise their children in harmony with their religious beliefs. This means yet another evidence of a specific relationship between the Catholic Church and the work of the present authority. So far, the high funding of private schools has been meaningful in our view, as we all want quality schools and quality education for all students. However, we must not forget that private schools have budgetary resources available to the founder, which will mean that private schools will be able to have a materially more favourable position in equal financing of private and public education. Of course, private schools will by no means be able to replace public schools. It is therefore incomprehensible to us in the LDS Club that the Minister does not have the first priority of ensuring the highest possible quality of public education where additional funds would be allocated for these purposes. The Minister should therefore focus his efforts on achieving the objective that no public school should have a worse condition than any private school. We wonder whether the introduction of changes increases the gap in accessibility to quality education if the money of taxpayers strengthens the private education network instead of strengthening quality public education. Although the Minister seeks to convince the public of the contrary, he is denied by Article 31 of the Act, Article 87 of the original law, which repeals the protection that private schools do not have budgetary resources if the existence of a public school in the same school environment is threatened by admission to a private school. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that the number of private schools is not clear, as this cannot be seen from the financial implications foreseen by the law in the future. The amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education also bring significant changes in the area of public school funding, where funds are provided according to the number of pupils or pupils. Kosovo funding is not something that we reject at the LDS a priori club, but we are wondering what such a rapid and reckless change will mean for the school system or how it will affect the design of the public school network, the quality of public education and, consequently, the provision of coherent regional development. The tendency to increase the number of students or students in the departments will certainly affect the reduced quality of the educational process and, on the other hand, we can expect the closure of smaller schools, particularly in rural areas. Therefore, in the event of the introduction of Kosovo funding, it is essential to develop a methodology for the so-called weighting of individual schools according to their programme, location, demographic and other characteristics. We also disagree with the amendments set out in Article 35 of the proposal for amendments to the law in the LDS. Although it is often possible to hear the Minister's words about the development of secondary vocational and vocational schools, in this article for teachers of professional and theoretical subjects in vocational and vocational schools, only education obtained through first-degree education programmes is required. This raises the question whether the Minister even knows the issue of vocational and vocational schools. How can we understand the gap between the verbal effort to increase enrolment in vocational and vocational education - I recall only the great words of the coalition Members and Ministers on the lack of certain personnel in the labour market and on over-inclusion in high school - while at the same time reducing the educational level for teachers of professional and theoretical subjects in vocational and vocational schools. In the LDS, we warn of radical changes and interventions in the school sphere that are not premeditated. In doing so, I would like to point out once again that we are concerned about the fact that they are not aligned at any point with the professional and interested public. In defense of his inconceivable solutions, however, it is trying to discredit himself as an unreliable and unfair interlocutor or partner. In order to avoid the damage that may be caused by unimaginable marriage solutions to present and future generations of children in education, we propose that the Minister withdraws the proposal from the law to the benefit of the development of Slovenian education and achieve the ambitious development goals of the Republic of Slovenia in the future, where knowledge and quality education system of the central city should be aligned with the professional and interested public. On the basis of everything that has been said in the LDS House, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Bojan Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that there is now a general debate, we can also take a look at the debates of Members and Members who have debated and represented the views of the groups of Members. In doing so, I would like to explain or at least point to this point, or to express my surprise, and perhaps also to believe that it was a mistake to act as a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group when he said it was a historic day yesterday, and I do not deny it, but that it was a historic day yesterday because it was the first time in history that an institution was named after a victim, not after a criminal. I hope that I may have misheard or that this was not meant as was said. Let me say that I have always thought about Velenje - because I know very well about Velenje - and about the name of various streets and institutions. Which of these people named after these institutions or institutions was or was he qualified as a criminal? While it may be a personal opinion of an individual who feels as much about someone as I do, and after thinking about it here in this room, here across the square is Cankar's home. Did you think Ivan Cankar was a criminal? Now I don't understand that much. But I hope it was a misunderstanding, and I hope that if it wasn't a misunderstanding, there was a mistake on the part of the one who declared it. With regard to the law that we are considering today, let me say that we are a member of the Magi. Majda Potrat, Miran Potrč and I tabled a proposal for amendments to this law in time to allow the public institutions established to provide or provide services to several public institutions, i.e. primary schools, as well as accounting kindergartens, food preparation and so on. However, this law did not receive support because there were some reasons why we did not know or, together, we were unable to assess how to finance it. There was also opposition because it was found that it was very difficult to pay the director of this institution because it was a non-profit issue and that this must work on the market because it was marketed and that it would then be settled with the centres and possibilities of merger with this law, which we are dealing with today. I have to say, at the time, I thought it was a good solution. And if I look from a local point of view at the establishment of these centres or the links between schools and the role of the founder, which could provide better quality, say, all this non-educational activity within primary schools, of course, it would be good, because we are facing various problems that could be addressed in this way. Even when I thought about whether this solution should be supported or not, I decided that I would definitely consult with the school representatives, with the principals in our area, and they would tell me what they were thinking. And that's probably what he'd do in the future. However, the problem is that in this law, the same article also states: "In joint public schools and schools, bodies designated by this law shall be formed or named for public schools and schools established as educational institutions, unless otherwise specified by the Act of Establishment." Unless otherwise specified by the Act of Establishment - this means, of course, that anything else can be determined if we leave this option open. I think that this is too open a matter and that it is necessary to define more precisely in this law, as well as the role of employees in this institution, whatever this centre is called. To reduce the role of employees in this centre, at least personally, I would not agree, as also, of course, as a Member of the Social Democrats, to solutions that are not consistent with the union, whether someone has a special relationship with this union or not. But since this is also somehow wrapped up in private school funding, I will certainly not support this bill. I have poor experience in this private area within the public sector. This matter is moving, first of all in the field of health. And here I agree with all those who have warned that private schools will certainly not be in the countryside. Nor will there be private pharmacies, nor will there be very many private doctors, because there is not what they want, nor is what they work for there very accessible. And when we talk about public networks, it happens to us that we do not have any specific public networks, but at the same time we establish private schools, private health clinics, private pharmacies, as a competition for public institutions, is called public pharmacies, public schools, public health care in public institutions. So the confusion becomes perfect in all these areas. And this is also one of the reasons, in addition to the disassembly that these solutions convey to users, of course, is one of the important reasons why this proposal does not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. I can only find with joy and sadness, at the same time, that my words have been confirmed in this debate by my colleague, how much we need a school that will give real knowledge and also raise. After all, I also raised European values, because of course I was talking about the postwar period, which was indelibly marked by the slaughter of more than 30,000 Slovenes and Slovenes, including families, children, priests and more than 10,000 other nations in Slovenia. This system, which was established during the postwar period, has marked many people. He shut some of them down, killed them just because they had some property. He shut some of them down and expelled them just because they had their opinions. One of these victims was also Dr. Jože Pučnik. Since he published a critical article, he was imprisoned for seven years, then expelled, and had to reexamine abroad. I hope that, at least in this context, we agree with our colleague that crime - crime, that Europe has a crystal clear attitude towards this, that in terms of European values, all totalitarianism is worthy of condemnation and that the leaders of that system are objectively responsible for the crimes committed and that it is clear for European values that every victim of regret is worthy of rehabilitation and of all respect. In this case, however, if it is even more important than the person who, by his return and his energy, has set his work, knowledge and life in favour of the independence of the state of Slovenia, then this is all the more important and we can assess that designation of the Airport of Dr. Jožet Pučnik, not only as a historical moment, because for the first time one of the truly important objects of this rank is named after the victim and not after the criminal, as was the practice of the past, but also as a profound ethical act and recognition, from this point of view, it was in fact yesterday's historic day. However, in order not to answer any further questions, I should also help my colleagues with the answers to the questions I have asked. The fact that "some truly dream of some independent Slovenia, but we will never allow it because we know that our only homeland is Yugoslavia," was just before the first democratic elections of Milan Kučan, President of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia. And the last occupier who cowardly killed civilians with cluster bombs and then defeated, disgraced, bowed his head leaving Slovenian soil, did so under a red star. And I think it's clear from this, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I'm going to try to stick to this bill. At the same time, I apologize if I repeat any of these matters because we are here today in this second round. And these views of the representatives of the parliamentary groups were also repeated. And now we, who are Members of Parliament, have to listen to this. But I thank the perseverance of all those on the balcony who are willing to listen twice to one and the same. As far as the issue of private education financing is concerned. Private education is, of course, not a profitable activity, nor is public education a profitable activity. And here to talk about education and pharmacies, it's the same as mixing pears and apples. Nothing else. Well, that doesn't work, these are two completely different things. The state has its own interest, a direct interest, so that, due to interest in a future, some will benefit from the future. And the same goes for those who introduce private education. If this is about vocational schools, then, of course, here is the interest of the economy to help educate the profiles of the people it needs, but there is not much to look at. Most of the time, you're all talking about the Roman Catholic Church. This is the stumbling block which, in this country and after 50 years, still represents insurmountable obstacles, in order to say which of these matters, we really need to settle it in a European comparable, democratic way. At this point, we have four private Catholic high schools. The last time we discussed the resolution in this National Assembly - the debate has been going on for more than 20 hours, and somehow we've been through up to one third of the amendments - the representative of the University of Maribor has said that I have somehow remembered and I can't forget that the only added value of these private schools is a mass there. That actually points to something, I'd say, a very low level of knowledge and a low ratio to all of that. There is no argument that the State would not contribute to that student who goes to a private school, as it does to that person who goes to a public, public school. There's no reason because they're paid through a system of taxpayers' money. And if I, for example, am a taxpayer and send my child to this school, I sent him for a purpose. And I don't understand all those who are so strongly opposed to it and by some counter-argument you're trying to make it look like it's something bad. I would ask that once in this country, with this cultural struggle, we stop in some way. And there is no reason why the country would give less to this student. But if parents are willing to give anything else, it is their personal right. You can do whatever you want with your money. And in all these schools, I tell you, they have funds, including funds for those students who can't pay extra extra extra extra extra extracurricular activities. And these funds are filled with a lot of people in Slovenia and they send a report every year, so much has come together, so we spent and so on. Something like the price of a radio fire. No one forces anyone, but people, every day, you can listen when they congratulate them because they contribute to this radio, which represents some difference clearly in the Slovenian space for many listeners. And why would we object if there was no other than an ideological reason? Now let's just leave it. That's a fact, no one can stop it. Slovenia is a member of the European Union and thank God this matter will go on, even if the authorities change or if some people jump on their heads. The second thing I would like to say is that today's talks about kindergartens and so on, some proposal goes in this direction that the number of departments is no longer limited to one institution to 30. I'll be honest with you again. Slovenian kindergartens are too expensive. Whether you want to hear it or not. And here, there's more that the proposer could do. If I look at our congregation, we spend a quarter of the budget money that we get for proper spending on kindergarten, one quarter, 25% of the 6 million in kindergarten. And we pay 80% of the price of kindergarten, and the other 20% are paid by the parents. I talk on average. From 0 to 80, but when we calculate the average, that's 20%. The number of employees, three kindergartens, if I say so myself, is one employee. If that's how we save our jobs, fine. Only then will there be no money left for the congregations. There was a client who used to say that kindergartens must be free of charge. Nothing's free. Whatever it is for free, please. If parents don't pay, someone else has to pay. Now it doesn't matter whether the state pays or the municipality pays. It comes from one bag, which we create with taxes and revenue on different segments. And that was very difficult to explain because it was very populist to explain, "We demand that kindergartens be free." Yeah, how are they gonna do it for free? Nobody's willing to work for free because they can't work for free. And here, Mr. Secretary, these criteria and standards in kindergartens should loosen up a little bit. I looked at some kindergartens in Austria, and they have much higher criteria for the number of children in the department, and not such requirements for those who look after these children there. With us, this system has been heavily monitored over the past ten years, and I know there is now a conflict of interest and it is very difficult to reduce it. And if I go back to this resolution again, everyone talked, everyone who debated, from the student organization to the rectors, everyone who was there, more money for universities. We can get more, we just have to reduce what we give for kindergartens, and we can put more into universities, but somewhere we have to reduce something if you want to increase on the other side. But we can't all just say more, more, more. Where are we gonna get it? And I'm always here in this House just hearing more, more, more. From where? When you're in a position, when you have to make decisions, when you sign accounts, then you see how hard it is to sign them if you don't have a place to take them. And if it's only going to be out of this law that accounting, which is now centralized after school, is going to be saved on this segment alone. Why does one small school need its accounting? Can they follow all these laws that we change on the current lane? Of course they can't. They're out ordering analysis and paying for it. Would it not be logical for us to combine this accounting into a stronger institution that will be able to follow all these huge changes imposed on us by the European directives, and which we are also making up and so forth? Thus, this is and in this direction the matter should continue to work. On this occasion, I would like to conclude, and also you, Mr Minister, only point out one thing, because we are now talking about financing the school system. It's a public procurement system. I know this is a very complex question, but the criteria and criteria are now such that schools, kindergartens and so on can, of course, choose the criteria of the lowest price offered. Here, however, it would probably be necessary to do something in the future and perhaps to make a slight change in this direction, in order to actually determine the non-presence of large companies' products, such as Danones and so on, which represent their products to us every night in the most watched television times, because they are extremely rich corporations and they can do this in order to help in some way our manufacturing industry, which cannot actually this great advertising. This is what I think the Government may also need to consider once and for some time with national television to see if it is really necessary to advertise toilet ducks in the most widely viewed advertising times and I do not know what smells and so on or give our domestic producers the opportunity to come. This is of course a purely business matter, but I think it would be possible here with some agreement also on this segment to make some conversion and help to find Slovenian articles in the food chain, from kindergartens, schools, to hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues! After all this multi-hour debate and controversy, all I can say is that we're different. And it's just that we're different. We have an expert public who agrees and an expert public who disagrees with the bill. There are also Members among us. Some of us agree with the bill; others do not. Much has already been said about the reasons and the actual changes in the Law. The key points, in my opinion, are to improve the quality of education and education, and the issue on which I will give a little more emphasis, which is the arrangement of private education. The fact is, private schools have existed for more than a decade. In 1996 the legal mechanisms for the functioning of private education were introduced. This was the law that introduced private schools and also regulated funding. Here, in my opinion, we are facing a key and major problem, as the private school curricula established before 1996 were funded 100% and those established after 1996 were only 85%. Of course, it is necessary to make it clear here, I think that today this has been under-emphasized, that this is about co-financing educational programmes, not investment or investment maintenance. Today we have two private education funding systems. This law will unite this system. From now on, all schools will receive 100% funding from education programmes. And just increasing this share of private school funding will, in my opinion, contribute significantly to improving the quality of education for children in these schools. As private education will be fully funded, this will mean that it will be accessible to all. And in this way, let us avoid introducing any schoolwork that has so much talk today. Private schools will be available to all or are now and will mean nothing more than competition and, consequently, an increase in quality. It is interesting, however, that the introduction of 100% funding for education programmes to private schools is strongly opposed by the unions of education and education, various societies and associations operating in the field of public education. They also sent us a letter, at least I got it, and I assume you're all alerting him to the injustice of such a way of financing. But there are, in particular, two sentences that, in my opinion, are in perfect contrast. They note that private schools and schools are needed from a desirable point of view because they are rich in the educational system because they satisfy the interests of those parents who want to raise and educate their children in accordance with special educational principles or religious and moral beliefs. The second sentence is very interesting, stating that it is not acceptable to improve the conditions for private schools with tax money. This leads to increasingly unequal opportunities for access to quality education. What can we conclude from this letter? I feel like someone's afraid of competition, and it also raises quality. That's the feeling I got when I read that letter. I respect all those who have had comments about motives. Why not, but I daren't discuss this moment. I leave this to others, especially professions, such and different professions, and especially to parents of children who now attend schools and those whose children will attend schools in the future. It must be made clear that private schools will not reduce public school funds. I've only touched one segment of this law. In general, I can say that the law is good, and indeed, in my opinion, it regulates the organisation and financing of education and education in a comprehensive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. Such a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education would be understood and supported if the problem of exceptional population growth or nativity in Slovenia were met. I think we can all see that this is not by having a network of primary schools and other schools, but by staying with the primary schools. Finally, we have invested a lot of money in the fact that these conditions are really largely extremely appropriate and that today students in these public primary schools have relatively good conditions. And in the fact that children will have this way of financing private schools, when the state 100% covers costs, as in public schools, means that children will be partially enrolled in private schools, partly in public schools and, of course, all schools will actually have a problem with both staff and costs. And surely a school that has fewer enrolled students will be extremely disadvantaged because this law speaks of being financed by the number of students enrolled in these schools, not by the departments and by the standards now in force. And this is a measure that certainly leads to an extremely bad network of public schools, a reduction in the quality of teaching. And what I think is even the worst, the impact will be mainly on those areas, those areas that already have an extremely bad demographic picture. So it's about areas that are outside the freeway area. This is about areas that are outside major city centres. All that we are saying is that we are working towards coherent regional development, to preserve rural life, and we are literally destroying all these measures by means of this law. Once you've lost a rural school, you've actually lost more than just a school. You have lost educated people who will, of course, leave this environment and then create and plan for the future and find new solutions. I think that one such case fighting for existence is this very instant case of school in Osilnica, in Kolpska Valley, in short, this area, along with the congregation of Kostel, is one of those who beats the side of the bell, whether this school stays or not. I think it was only after the extremely severe hours and reactions of both the Municipality of Osilnica and the Church that the Ministry seemed to have shown mercy and left the school in Osilnica. But the fact is, in this way of funding in the future, we can expect even more problems than this environment has. I am talking about the border area, and I am talking about the fact that, in fact, such areas should be developed even more carefully, rather than endangering them by such a law on financing education and education as is before us today. This financing change measure will truly reflect the fact that some schools, public schools in Slovenia, will start closing, the question of what will happen to these facilities will also be raised as to what will happen to the staff. Many staff will be out of work under such a school funding law and, of course, the worst thing is that no one today can guarantee that education will be of such quality in these private schools or, above all, in these private schools, so that we can say that we have adopted one developmental law. I'm sure you don't. Already in the previous law that we have considered, we have been able to see that this is a major change — a compulsory public school of two foreign subjects or a language, but it is not necessary for a private school to do so. In short, it's not about meeting up with some healthy competition, but it's about trying to think about creating some conditions for the creation of private schools that don't offer better quality education than is being done in public schools today. This artificial creation of conditions is certainly a great harm to the education system, and I am sure that it would be really necessary before any decision on this law is made, in particular, to present to the National Assembly, which is a network of primary schools, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which, after the adoption of this law, can be considered as public further, which, of course, may exist in that environment either as private or not, will not be private or public in that environment. This is the biggest question that will certainly affect the least developed areas. So I really miss a thorough analysis of the network of primary schools and also of the networks of other schools that we need in Slovenia, and if we find that we are improving the situation with private schools, we are going to take such a step, otherwise I do not see any great need to do so in the way that we are doing it in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go. No, no, no. He's quitting. Then Mr. Bogdan Barovich, don't forgive me, is present Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We have heard quite a few strong words today in this debate, at the previous and current points. We have heard words about hurrying with changes, with a number of debates being held in and outside this National Assembly. With the adoption of this novel under normal procedure. We have heard allegations of acceptance by the profession and contrary to the public concerned, of politicalisation in the field of education, while some have probably forgotten that this minister has interrupted a certain practice of giving consent, which was the practice of his predecessors, and that he has removed himself from these perceptions of so-called politicisation. About privatising education and favouring private schools before public schools - well, this one, I think it is the strongest and it also had the strongest emphasis. This novel does not introduce financing for private education, we probably know that all of us who have received this law on the table. We know that the financing of private education was adopted ten years ago and several years ago and that this novel merely equates this unequal situation between those established before 1996 and those since 1996. This is a 15 % difference in the co-financing of the implementation of the programmes. What are we actually talking about? In 798 elementary schools there is one private one, one Waldorf. And this is due to the different dynamics of adopting this legislation in one part 100% funding, in the other part 85%. Now let me know if this is right and if this is justified and if this is in accordance with the Constitution and the laws to which you refer, the equality of rights and so on. There are 6 privates in 142 middle schools. Again, 3 are 100% funded, 3 are 85%. None of these were established after 2004, none. Clearly, then, private schools in this country do not have so many opportunities to develop as some would like to show. Clearly, it's not a profitable institution. Obviously, we are convinced by those parents whose children go to these private schools to offer a quality and quality educational program. And this was probably the intention of introducing this area ten years ago and over - a quality and quality programme. And perhaps the impact on this mentality also in the public sector, which we know is only changing a little bit slower; all systems that are larger are changing more slowly by nature. But this one has also changed, changed, and will be in the future. And because of this minimal change that we have on the table today, there will be no threat to the financing of education, in anything, not public or private. We will come to the conclusion that some anomaly that has been caused in the past will be eliminated and nothing else will be removed. How private schools can be in a better position when the law makes it clear that they do not have the means of investment, investment maintenance and equipment. But we know what that means. It means that they do not essentially have the means for the foundations on which they are to develop. So I think that this novel does not deserve as much words and as much debate as we have reported today. I also read this letter received by anti-governments, I apologize, NGOs, in which the first part of quality public education reads: "The quality of public education is a public good that contributes significantly to the creation of conditions for a successful future and the well-being of our citizens and citizens. Without good public schools, which provide access to quality education and high standards of knowledge for all, there will also be no economic progress." 100% can be agreed with. And this novel does not prevent it, this novel makes it possible. There is a fundamental difference between what is then written here and what some read in this law. If we want to read it the way those provisions are written. As far as school centres are concerned, I think it is appropriate that those who are founders be given the opportunity to decide, in the case of the basic schools of the local community, to organise themselves in a way that they believe will be better able to carry out the mission, which is why these public institutions are set up. And if they find that they will be able to implement the programme more easily at the school centre with the appropriate organisation, to spend the optimal resources and to devote some of the resources that may now be spent needlessly for some unnecessary material costs in order to make the implementation of the programme more qualitative, richer, then I think that there is nothing wrong with that. But we're just giving them that chance. The law says well in the novel that these things can be organized. However, the municipalities will decide whether or not to go this way. A while ago, after many years, I was appalled that it was really 30 years from this, we got together, I think it was about a month ago, the one we graduated from 30 years ago in the eighth grade of that elementary school. One of the interesting things was left in my memory, the rap sheet we had with our classmates. After all this time, we still have them under surveillance. And when I talk to teachers who are now teaching at schools, there are many who tell me that it would be right for our school system to see that teachers get some of this stew like they once had. For the sake of the child, of course, for they make all these things happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Yeah, well, it's a long debate, it's no big deal if it is. Even in the first part of this part, I say that it would be very good to have a public debate on the financing law, or at least with all the people involved, as far as I have the list here since 18.1.2005, after these events there has not been a discussion this time. But good. There are also some things in this marriage that are not clear to me, and I will tell them, and I will also tell you what I will decide, just as I will. Private education will be financed 100%. So far, it's 85%. In addition, private capital will flow into private education. And the first question is: Why is private capital not running into public schools or why are laws not harmonised so that capital flows to public schools? In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that such a way is the beginning of elitism for the chosen. It doesn't matter if it is, but it's not at the expense of public education, colleagues and colleagues. Not at the expense of public education! The State co-finances private schools under four conditions. The fourth condition is that private schools represent a substantive complement to the public school network. I'd be very happy to hear what that is. This degrades or destroys public schools; that public schools are not so good, are bad, and need a substantive supplement. Well, I'm even more interested in the constitutional rights of parents, it says, "he directs the upbringing of his children." The only thing in the Constitution is Article 57. But what it says under point 4, when the state co-finances private schools - under the following conditions, because we have to read the Constitution exactly as it says. There is no way that parents have the right to direct the upbringing of their children. No, it says, "education is free." That means you're either in primary school or you're not. And if you do, you educate yourself in any direction you want. Primary education is compulsory and financed by public funding. Yes, from public funds to public schools, not from public funds to private schools, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will never leave it in my life, and if, as we have heard, it has been said a little earlier that the state is financing - the sea and that this is a good - private education, then I am very interested in whether this is a good principle and this is a great principle that you "furnish" in this law, why the state does not finance private health. Why not? Why is it financed only for concession quotas or even provides for concessions with certain quotas and when these quotas run out, the patient must pay for them himself. Is that your equality, your comparability? It's not for me: what's public is public. And lastly, at 700 and several other schools - I'll only say about the Trbovlje. Go look at the school that 1,000 people go to: it was built decades ago, the first assembly school that falls apart and falls apart. Nobody cares, but in the Rippers, you know, there are basically kids who are children who are just miners, metal miners, scrapers -- people who have secondary education. The municipality of Trbovlje is not rich, it is a socially endangered municipality and I think there are not many children who want to go to elitism, to go to private schools, because I am sure - me and also parents and their children - that public schools in Trbovje, four primary schools we have or three and one branch, are very quality. And last of all, if you look at even Slovenia, we can start with the jazz orchestra and the symphony orchestra and the police orchestra, and in literature, in art, you will see that they are the Rippers everywhere. It means they've learned something in public school and they're not stupid. There are more on average than in all other congregations, from 213, I bet! No! No! In this way you will not bring in a respected colleague and colleague, a certain structure that you will pay them all. Blessed is he who believes, I respect every faith, but we see what is behind. You won't! You're not going to bring private schools through public funding - we all know exactly who and don't hide, we all know who. We heard about the first marriage a little earlier. Minister, that's how it is, that's how it is. We've been fighting for 20 years, we can't get a public school in order, even though the content is rich, rich. And of course, I will never, ever support such a marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Dushan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I have to be honest with you that I have survived today as a parent and taxpayer, one of those, a lot of days and thank God that children are growing up a little and that there is only one more in primary school. Of course I'll stay at primary school. Above all, I was not surprised, but delighted at the different opinions, the patterns of education and so on. But unfortunately it is. This pattern that we give to young people is not only critical of how they are raised, what they do, how they behave, but a mirror or a pattern of this behavior is not the least of all in this National Assembly. After a full day of discussion, I must admit that I have come up with the kind of innovation that the Ministry of Education has invented, and I think it is good that it offers this as an innovation to the government as well. This is the case: the State by public means allows private schools to be established in order to raise the quality of public school and the financial cake remains the same, and nothing is added to it. I think that the economic minister and other ministers of this innovation will be very pleased to see how with the same money you can boost the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian economy, but not that we are adopting some laws to subsidise certain things. But to go to a specific point, as I said, I will focus on primary school and my critical view of privacy in primary school, not on high school and so on. As I mentioned, given the fact that I have the opportunity to feel at home today, at this moment all types and traps of the educational process, from primary school to university, and also to hear a number of opinions and views from users' mouths, this is students, students and students, of course, I must say that I am proposing: the proposed changes and additions to the law they are currently considering are the least affecting their position - that is, the situation of these users. And this, in my opinion, is the greatest weakness of changes and the addition of this school funding law. The changes that have a goal - and this must be acknowledged - must also be read through some of the legislative proposals that go through individual articles - to aim for the final goal of some rationalisation of public education and some financial savings, through which private education can then be financed and financed. Once again, the proposaler wrote in his own financial impact assessment that there would be no additional funding for this. Thus, the network of public schools remains the same, and private education will of course also be established. That is why, of course, it is difficult for you to convince me - or with some who have also been quoted here today - that only programmes are financed through this law. It is not true that through this law they have the opportunity to participate in this also for equipment and teaching aids, as well as for public schools, as well as for private schools. So whatever we do, this competitive situation, by quality, of a private school that has other sources of funding, is already under way and will have a leak in the future, in addition to parental contributions from the founders - I will be more reliant, and I will say, another arrow opens, and what kind of "offer" is meant for this. This is an additional resource that is simply not available in public school, and this is a competition that I will not agree to introduce this entrepreneurial competition into primary school, which is guaranteed under Article 57 and must be guaranteed to all. I advocate that all have equal access to an equivalent quality of education in primary school. That is why the final consequence, however we turn - and this has also proved to be in private schools, which are now secondary private schools - that it is some kind of elitism and that they will have access to these schools, and I am also afraid of elementary schools, different types of modern elite: let it be capital elites, let it be an entrepreneurial elite and in the end, some, I will again be deplorable, including a religious elite. In short, let me finish. Once again, I believe that primary school is not an enterprise, it is not possible to enter an entrepreneurial model with competitiveness, but I would suggest that the state, together with the Ministry, engages itself and devotes more resources, which obviously, in terms of economic growth and all the other results, there are also more resources for public primary school networks in this country. And in the end, those who say, "Well, primary schools, private schools, they don't start yet, they don't stop so fast, they don't get established," -- where my children go to primary school today, teachers and private school teachers are recruited. And how do they recruit them? With better working conditions and better wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! I'm going to touch this law myself in just two, three points. I will begin with that part that I do not understand, why it is also necessary for the Government to insist on the text as written down as we have before us. This is a question of educational centres. I think it's a typical example of not a very well-thought-out approach, unless it's something I don't understand. We have discussed here how it would be possible for schools to do some of the work they have to do as rationally as possible. And at the time, I had a feeling at the time of my colleague Kontić's marriage that we had agreed on that. I expected such a solution. Now, however, I have a solution before me that takes legal subjectivity to kindergartens and schools and simply kindergartens and schools no one asks whether they also believe that it is necessary to arrange their business in some way. Therefore, if we went the other way and allowed kindergartens and schools to carry out part of these activities together with the founder at another level, if we did not interfere with their legal personality, I would understand this as possible. Now's not an option. Now this is the destitution of one important element, especially in the local community. For many years, I have witnessed the inner tension between local authorities and kindergartens and schools. Some claimed that something was wrong with others, while others generally claimed that something was wrong with those first ones. It seemed to me that this tension needed to live, that it was a local productive tension, only to turn into something else. These are two important entities, especially smaller local communities. Let us preserve this, Minister, and we will preserve part of the normal civil social structure of our space. What is here, of course, is more than acceptable and does not seem to wonder why people are against it. The second question is the question of private schools. Let us begin by asking whether the White Paper has already said that private schools need to be organised as set out here. The answer is simple and it is: no! Whoever claims the opposite, either falsified or didn't read the white book. He's not particularly honored by either one of them. The White Paper has made the public school system very clear, since kindergarten, including schools, as a priority for this country. She said, however, that with the public school system, which is the backbone of the whole, it is necessary to provide financial support for a private initiative. It is no coincidence that the number has stopped at 85%, because it is necessary to know that the public school here - says Dr. Šimenc, who is one of the few serious experts in this field in this country - "the one who is obliged to accumulate all social differences within himself is also that city, which is not only a place of learning, but also a place of creating a way of interacting between us all different." That's why we need it, among other things, ladies and gentlemen! So that we can learn to live together, regardless of religious differences, regardless of social differences and other differences, it has priority over private school. However, we cannot set up a system in such a way that, with 100% public funding for private schools, with the selected population in private school, which is prepared and, as a rule, able to pay more, we will be able to work two types of schools. The inequality in this system, as recorded, will protect, without protection, what we will increase. I therefore plead for the Minister to regulate the public network of kindergartens and schools and then approach the private sector, not vice versa, for my sake.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Rudy Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. See, in the presentation of the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education or so-called ZOFVI, I do not see any reform changes, as presented in the public, in the newspaper, on television and elsewhere. In my opinion, these are normal changes that we are adapting time with. That kindergartens are too expensive, we probably all agree. Some efforts have been made this time, but I am sure that we did not say the last word in kindergartens and will likely meet with them in the near future. I welcome the establishment of centres for the reason of the separation of management of accompanying activities and teaching work. To emphasize, the establishment of centres is voluntary. The local community and schools must agree on a voluntary basis to establish this centre. The possibility of combining service services led by a professionally educated person is given and the principals are mainly involved in the organisation of teaching work. In an interview with the principals I have in the field, I was a little surprised when they said that they didn't have time to do teaching work for more than 30, 40% of their time, they all took other things that clearly belong to school, but they don't necessarily need education and education. And I'm going to mention another case that happened because the principal didn't get to know accounting, which she actually did. But, look at him, there's been a financial embezzlement or school money spill at this school, not to say, school money thefts. The reason is, as I said at the beginning. In order to avoid such and similar matters, I think it is right to distinguish pedagogical work on the one hand, on the other hand, from accompanying activities which are certainly necessary, but at the professional and centralised level, which will guarantee some professional approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much, distinguished President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Minister, you visited us in the parliamentary group, very correctly, before we began to talk seriously about this law. The agreement and presentation of this law was, in fact, genuine and somehow promising, but there was not much left of what we talked about and talked about. Look, today the network of public schools is threatening the changed way of funding. Mr Barovic, a former colleague, discussed how public education would be affected in essence now, as you have introduced funding for the student. What this means for branch schools is not particularly important. You probably know that there will be worse programs there, and it's also not right that we introduce funding for private education 100%. It is not right to impose lower conditions, in private education, if I may say so, there are no conditions of separation, while two departments are needed in public education. The influence of the Church, nobody wants to talk about it, is today, we could say, 100%. This one has money and is likely to establish private schools, and so is this law. And through a small door, you will bring broken school programs and, of course, religious education. If that is the purpose, Minister, then of course I cannot vote for this law. The other tragedy is kindergarten. Look what you wrote down. The main objective of the changes, of course, in my opinion is to improve private education, at the expense of public education, and in kindergartens it is that the law allows schools and kindergartens to unite at the centre. And they can work without the principal or the council of the school if it is recorded in the creation act. Today, kindergartens are left to the congregations. To this day, no minister was interested in how the kindergarten was going to go, and you know that you even ordered a study of why so few children attend kindergartens. Interesting! We know that public institutions that provide municipalities stand up and that some municipalities can subsidise the prices of kindergartens, while others cannot, because they do not have them in the budget, these options, and are entirely budgetaryly dependent on the state. And right here, in these weaker municipalities, families are exposed to higher pay for kindergarten. Isn't that unfair? Why don't we fix this? Why do you not take up part of the cost of maintenance of buildings, investment maintenance or personnel for budget staff? Why can't we take it? That's what we talked about. This was neither the hearing nor the spirit in this law. I can also tell you that you have disregarded your profession. You have been warned of these mistakes by both the union and a group of experts who, of course, wanted this marriage slightly different. And what we're doing today is probably not proud of Slovenia, it's someone you owe him, I think it's an order from the Roman Catholic Church. You will allow them to introduce their private schools. We're hearing about some cluster bombs and victims and criminals and so on; we're the only state in which criminals can walk freely and maybe Italy is that way. And it's not a good topic to continue with, but so much about it. And shame is this law, and of course I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would certainly like to stress that it would be good if at least most of us could still maintain a bit of doubt, that is, the belief that things need to be reconsidered more than once and that we do not think that everything is clear. Some have already been told that everything is clear to them, and I am most afraid of those who already know everything; because they want only to win yet, they are no longer ready to talk, they are not ready to think, they are not ready to compromise, and they are not ready to talk. I know that this school's legislation is of course such that it stirs up the thinking, that it also has passions, I know that there are very often dissonant tones here, and because I am a coalition Member, on such occasions I will try and look again at what we have written in the treaty that is signed. And I wonder if we all still understand what is written in the same way. So, our contract says we're going to deal with these problems holistically, so in a way that we're going to try to think about all kinds of things, all the possible consequences on one, the other, the third and on more possibly even the listed pages, and of course I'm wondering if we've really done it. I wonder if enough convincing analyses have been made to make it very likely that we are on the right track. I wonder how many of the different entities and individuals and collectives were involved in this debate and whether they have heard enough. I wonder if all the Members or Members who spoke were in the hands of the polls that I have read and that speak of many things that the law proposes positively. Also, some key ones are spoken of by rejecting tone. And, of course, I wonder whether - and I hope so - the Minister and his team have also prepared this dialogue, which has been established, but of some, so they are convinced, not sufficiently extended, to continue, to give additional opportunities for finding compromises and not to want to end the debate in any way and quickly. The Coalition Treaty also states that we are going to open up equal opportunities for all as much equality as possible. And it is necessary to consider whether these equal opportunities are only the same options, for example for students, for those from different social strata, whether they are equal opportunities for entities offering school systems and activities at school, or whether they are equal opportunities for providing material standards, including those called buildings, equipment, maintenance, investment maintenance, etc. I ask myself further whether we have really done enough on this, so we have entered into a coalition agreement that the discussion will be professional, that we are going to raise our profession, that we are going to decentralise, that we are going to increase the autonomy of school space, etc. And I wonder where to put these centres, which, in my understanding, mean a steady state of autonomy, both financially and in terms of legal subjectivity, as well as in terms of the presentation of schools or institutions that will be involved in this, and could also list these things. But I can understand it differently. Is what we wrote in the coalition contract still an option? So we're going to talk openly and openly about what's going on with our kindergartens. Are these burdens that we now know, especially those that we are still mayors, such that the municipalities can afford them to have the same opportunities for all, because we know that the congregations are very different, that one can barely live, others can offer better programs, etc. And will the country, as it was understood by me at that time, consider whether it will, with greater ambition, enter this preschool space in a way that will allow for the elimination of material, financial and other differences that are certainly occurring on the ground. We even thought about going in by taking over, as she once did years ago, the salaries of schools or schoolchildren are also paid by school teachers. Probably one part of the Slovenian population would be impressed by this, and the mayors would certainly be all because it was the easiest thing to do what was happening now; that the state imposed obligations on kindergartens, and thus, of course, the founders, but the founders of the municipality, did not participate much, except by sharing responsibilities widely, with a large hand. In short, the whole range of such things is also in the coalition agreement, which makes me think in this direction, too, that it is not necessary to support only what is now proposed to judge that it is possible to change a lot, but that some things are also proposed, which are smooth, without any particular consideration at this point on the basis of the argument we have heard, I am also prepared to support. What bothers me, like most others, is 100% funding. What exactly does that mean, 100% funding? As I know the school system, I've been doing this for 15 years - I used to be chief, I've been mayor for many years, I have contacts with this part of our lives - but talk about that we don't have the same opportunities for schools now, for this school space. This school space depends largely on this, sometimes on whether the mayors were able to agree with the Minister and with Mr Rudi Mohet that we had been given greater resources in the construction of investments. Sometimes schools depend on whether they have a more municipal mayor or more, say, who gives something to social activities. And there was no special help here, not before and not now, I don't see this ministry trying to give these equal opportunities for everyone. This 100% funding would be 100% funding to me only if from the base stone it was really financed from the same funds. If later, for equipment, for investment maintenance and for the implementation of programmes, we behave in the same way, we do not look at who the founder is. Of course, there can be more founders, not as stated in the explanatory memorandum to Articles 15 and 3, where it says they are local communities. In most cases, of course, others can and do not have to hide that the founders can also be others and that the founders decide how much resources they will then have in schools, what facilities we will have, what equipment and what kind of founder the Church can be, or what other civil society can have, or can this local community. And in advance, I would not be giving some aprioral judgments, what is good and what is bad if this country is willing to first remedy the public sector that we now have and that we say is not good. Let us put it on a competitive basis and then also establish competition. And I won't mind if he has a good school that does a good program and a church school, even though I don't have any flair, and I don't consider it good or bad. I'm just thinking about what are the same conditions, the same conditions, because there are so many different thoughts about this, because it's not just a difference here, I hear sometimes tons that are extreme in our discussions. I would suggest to the Minister that we take the time not to rush into any more things, that we really think through the analysis of what is good and what might be bad. And yes, because we have heard several times today, and because it is not a large resource for the budget, we admit that it is something else. It's not about profit in schools, it's about whether there will be such values or there will be different values, whether there will be such a policy or there will be another policy, or whether there will be such a world view - that's what my judgment is about. Certainly not for those hundreds of thousands of euros, because that would easily be pushed out of our budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u257	Today's debate on these two laws encourages me to speak and give my opinion on this ZOFVI as well. I think it is right for us to listen to each other's arguments as we deal with this law today, to listen to each other's arguments, and to listen to the Minister when he tells us and explains what they want to do with these changes. As far as the changed way of funding brought about by law is concerned, according to the student's head payments, I think it would be right for the minister to come forward again and somehow explain to everyone that this student's head is not the same or the value of this head is not the same in Ljubljana as, for example, at a branch school in Zavodnja or in White Waters where there is currently no teaching. I understand, however, that schools are concerned and do not know whether this method of funding brings them more or less or equal money. To try to achieve a certain rationalisation here, I am sure. I personally strongly support the establishment of educational centres, as it is certainly possible to achieve some rationalisation. I am reluctant to come to the forefront of our large high school centre in Velenj, which is really large, a large number of students have, and I am sure that when it works as a centre with joint services that can be shared, I will save a lot of money, I will say, public, tax money. It is true, however, that we must not allow this to result in a higher or lowering of criteria, the abolition of perhaps a branch, a school that is certainly financially not rational, but is very, very important for the very place where such a school is located. I can't help but think of the ministry here as a reminder of two years ago when parallel education was abolished at Velenj Music School. A certain rationalisation has probably been achieved, but I will say: with regard to the students and parents of the Savinij-Shales region and Koroška, it was also a large, large centralisation that has caused us, parents and students very, very high cost increases. For if we wanted to teach our children parallel music, we had to put them in Ljubljana, put them in a student's home, thereby increasing transportation costs and not listing, although we could peacefully have a department of this Ljubljana music school in Velenje. At the time we tried to pay on our heads, we said, "Never mind, we'll keep our department, give us as much as it goes on our heads, and we're able to do it in the valley." It's just like intermezzo so this rationalization doesn't go too far. Well, another word for private school. I have a private, or high school, experience, and I can't say anything but praise and praise. And I'm really asking you, don't be afraid of private education, it won't bring any harm to Slovenia. I am sure that Slovenia will only gain this, and this will also show one greater breadth in education itself. Maybe just one segment I felt as a private school student's father myself. This emphasis, which I have highlighted in the previous law, is the real segment of education, I must say that it is inappropriately more present in private school. I would have liked to have stressed earlier that we would have achieved this in public schools; and I see many other advantages personally in a private school. Let us leave the possibility of free decision-making for both our children and our parents so that we can enroll our children in a school that we think is best for us and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. Even this afternoon, we are committed to two laws, which are unfortunately very uncoordinated, which are opposed by the entire professional public, users: 13 NGOs have expressed concerns and objections, from trade unions, associations of directors, student organisations, student organisations and so on. That this is an inappropriate law is also evident from the reply of the distinguished Minister Dr. Beast to my question yesterday. In particular, I was interested in what measures are being taken in the envisaged school reform to ensure the quality and equal status of public schools. And he answered me, quote, "Yes, that's when I said that my main concern is public school care, but this is mainly because practically private education in Slovenia is extremely, extremely small." So he's worried about public education because private education is low. Then, of course, my particular question answers how inappropriate the structure between public and private education is, and that no one in this country has the right to discriminate against children and teachers working in private institutions; and of course, the reference to equal opportunities and the like. But because it is not discrimination, everyone has the opportunity to go to school in public institutions and, of course, it is also the task of the State to make it possible for everyone to do so. The problem is when it becomes questionable when the standard of this lower is at the expense of private education; for it is hard to imagine how private education will improve the situation of public education. We have heard this a number of times, unfortunately, the truth is completely reversed, completely reversed. We expect the decline of generations, as a result of course the surplus - teachers and how does the minister respond to this trend? By reducing the scope of public education through the new regulations of 136 level departments and, on the other hand, opening the door wide for private schools. And you don't have to fool the public because the public isn't stupid. If it is necessary to save for such or other reasons - also fine, but then it is necessary at all levels, but not that, as I said earlier, almost half of public schools reduce the number of departments and, on the other hand, private school funding rises, increasing from 85% to 100%. We have heard and read that there are strict standards and conditions not only in the teaching staff, but also in all those areas that provide the level and quality of education in parallel, such as the consultant, librarian, accounting and, last but not least, the chef, janitor and cleaner. And all of this in favor of the quality of education! We can also see in the law the possibility of confirming educational centres. All about these centres, of course, the real purpose and the possibility of rationalisation, but in the eyes, there will be a great inadequacy of how these centres can be established, how they establish themselves, how schools enter, and, if possible, what human resources are, not least, who appoints the director and then what competences this director has. Very, very inappropriately and very resembling the pattern that we could see in the case of higher education, where the Government also provided for a business director and if the Government could not fall into academic freedom and independence of universities, it tried to control this space through economic levers. I hope that similarity is merely random and that there are no such desires and tendencies in this case. Funding for students, too, is certainly one of the proposed solutions that will in no way contribute to coherent regional development and to ensuring the level of education in demographically threatened areas. We know, of course, that areas where there are very few students and where in a very large area buses drive students to schools, and then these departments are under some of the average standards and standards. And if the fuse in Article 87 now exists will be lifted, then these departments are even more exposed, and I assure you that it will be so much harder to ensure population in the demographicly threatened areas, in those remote areas, if primary education is even less accessible to people. We heard a announcement that the first Catholic nine - year - old was coming. The goal is to find God in every human, so we can understand from this article. Again, I repeat, there is no problem in private schools, nor do I object to private Catholic schools, but not at the expense of public education and not at the expense of this network, which is established and needs to be upgraded, which needs to be guaranteed quality and that teachers can devote themselves to their work. And I fully agree with one of the speakers that teachers will also have the reputation and respect of the students. Unfortunately, this law and the ones we discussed earlier do not follow in any way, but they do not guarantee these objectives, on the contrary. On the contrary, in public schools, but not in private, where certain articles are exempted, those articles, which, of course, could provide this in a slightly different wording. For all of this I cannot support this proposal for a law and I do not think it is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members, guests! Today is a long day, and it's my feeling that we're kind of going through each other. It may simply not be heard in this Chamber anymore, but the characteristic of this government is that it hears neither its Members nor the Members of the coalition parties. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education will have a significant impact on all Slovenians and Slovenians, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Everyone, either parents, uncles, aunts, old parents - is very few who are not associated with primary schoolchildren or high school students. I myself will talk about two elements of this law: financing and the issue of public and private. First, about the funding. I kind of have a problem with the government's document, says that the change in funding conditions will in fact not have a significant impact on the state budget, so to speak, some quarter of a million euros. But, you know, a quarter of a million euros is possible in Slovenia just so you can get from public money for one tax advice. Of course, I don't think it's true that marriage won't have consequences. The law will have a fantastic impact on the efficiency of taxpayers' money use because it will create a lot of additional problems. The government says it's not a big change. When you visited us at the parliamentary club you said, yes, we have some minor changes, then you introduced them to us and of course we told you that we do not agree with them, but here today with all the large cannons - some of them called the late Colonel for help - you are trying to politically implement important changes. What are the changes? You intend to introduce and modify a funding system in education. You're introducing so-called Kosovo funding for high school, maybe even primary school. Mr. Minister, can you explain to me what you mean by co-financing? Really funding like funding on the head of a student, a student? Can you explain to me exactly because this is not what you intend to do in your marriage? I'm told by my colleagues in high school, by my fellow principals, what's going to happen. I quote, "Headfunding will fill the classes again. The state just doesn't know that smaller classes would [[in Denmark they have a maximum of 25 students in the classroom and a teacher has 15 hours of teaching obligations and we have 20 hours]] allow more individual work, more monitoring of each student individually, more adjustment to students' abilities, smaller rashes and thus less successful students. These unsuccessful students then seek help in parallel education, are in employment institutions, are educated according to the plans of the Employment Institute, in short, as I am told, less money from the Ministry of Education, more from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The state gives money from the left to the right pocket, in the middle loses thousands of euros, but worst of all - we lose young people, we lose young people. The principals clearly say that changes will mean charging classes and also the tendency of administrators to hire less experienced, cheaper teachers, rather than those who are more expensive, those who are more experienced, and those who have higher titles are more educated and thus are more educated than children today need. What will you do with extra teachers? Are you going to force them to retire? Mr Minister, is it not the fact that we do need as many teachers as possible in small, controlled classes, who will be well rewarded, able to offer help to young people, especially those young people - and there are many of them - who do not even know how much help they themselves need and unfortunately only run away. But unfortunately, it's the other way around. The new funding system will stimulate lower labour costs. Citation: "Now it is difficult for teachers to hunt balance in these situations, but at the same time it threatens us with existing problems. But maybe it's the goal," says one of my affected comrades, "but perhaps the goal is an uneducated, ignorant people who will obey their leaders." And he concludes: "Slovenia cannot afford the degradation of the education system, because we are not a 250-million-dollar nation. Mr Minister, I ask you: If it is clear that the planned changes in the situation of private education have a significant impact on the changes in funding, why such low effects in the explanation of the law? Why do you not respond to what is a very clear analysis by one of the experts who says that if we compare data for education and education from 2004 to 2008, after the budgetary documents adopted, then we find that during this time the amount of funding for education and education decreased by 0.9% of gross domestic product, from 4.41 to 3.46%. There were no answers to that, but we know what happened on other items - 0.9% of gross domestic product is almost 300 million euros, we have given that much to the armor. This gentleman is a great know-it-all, but we can compare the data, and I would be very happy if we responded to this information, and I would be happy if we included it in the law. I would be very happy, Mr Minister, to present precise calculations for, for example, Slovenian high school. In order, for example, for Šubič's high school - I apologize, the school of criminal Jožet Plečnik, freely according to our colleague - we make clear the current financial plan, the current level of funds and the new financial plan. Very clearly showed the structure of the employees now and, of course, the expected and likely structure that will happen. So much for changes in the funding system, Mr. Minister. What is co-financing for you? How do you imagine that? What calculations do you have for high school, for other schools? And secondly, of course the story about private schools. If the thesis, as teachers call it, is that authority builds and wants to have an ignorant people, which will, of course, be the effect of conditions for the normal functioning of public schools, yet you build your elite by stimulating private schools. Legally, it's clear. And the right to choose a school is defined as a negative right, and this has already been regulated by the White Paper. However, the State is not obliged to encourage and financially support private schools unless that is the objective of the Authority. But in our constitution, this goal of power is not written down. And you, of course, have come to the conclusion that the goal of power is to make an elite. I fully understand that after you work through the tax legislation of the economic elite, when you work through the takeover legislation on the ownership of individual matters, it is also necessary to make elite children now. From the system and from the small system change you are introducing, you will make a private elite school. My fellow Members, of course, remind you that after this system, there will never again be a public school in the White Waters or in the Gulf. Worse, Mr. Secretary. Well, I'll finally quote you on this, what you're saying about your home school. From your desire to reform at all costs you will decommission public schools and introduce elites. I ask you who you do it for: for all children in Slovenia or for elite children only. Consider, Mr Minister, consider fellow Members and Members where you would have come if you had no access to a public school in your youth. Would you even be allowed to play with system changes if you did not receive public education from primary school to university? I know again. If it wasn't for the 1960s and 1970s in Velenj there was a public primary school and a public high school and there would only be an elite high school in Celje - I didn't even have a bus to Celje. And I propose, Members and Members, that we ask ourselves this question. If we ask ourselves this question about elite schools, then we will see that it is really necessary to make a new white book first, analyse the necessary changes and make changes with a great deal of listening. And to the end of your quote. I do not support the law myself, and I believe that you do not support it either, because otherwise you would not say about the school paper Sun Hill, your primary school Dr. Milan Zver, Minister of Education: "I am emotionally closely connected to Desternnik, where I attended school, spent my childhood. Today there are really phenomenal conditions for education, training and education, I would like to..." and so on. "I believe that schools, which mean the cultural center of life in the municipalities, will play this role in the future." And Mr. Franz Pukšič, Mayor of the Municipal Council: "We take care of the best material conditions all the time through the municipal world also in the supplementary education programme, because we are aware that knowledge is the greatest value, that investment in it is paid only for a longer period, so it returns abundantly and richly, but not to individuals, to society." And then, Mr. Franz Pukšič: "I am grateful that the excellent conditions that we have created, the branch, our young people with love, with knowledge, are being upgraded by our teachers along with the leadership of the school. Such coexistence in our schools and places has ensured the further development of individuals and society as a whole and the visibility of the home and the world." Mr. Minister, with private schools and 100% of the new funding you are introducing will not do so. Not just in Destrench! In the bulky part, let's call them urban villages - Slovenia will not do this because simply interest is too small. Therefore, Mr Minister and Members and Members of Parliament, I do not believe that this law is ripe for further consideration, that this law does not survive the normal test, an analysis of what changes mean that there are no analyses of changes in funding and that you do not even realize how radical change you are making by stimulating the creation of private schools. I will therefore oppose the law, and I will advise you Members and Members of Parliament, unless you obey those who say that all known Slovenians so far have been criminals, you will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek. He's quitting. Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u263	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The question that I have raised in dealing with this law is what is the priority of this country. Is this state's priority public education or private education? Because two things are supposed to be a priority public: education and health. In health we are going public-private partnership, in education we are going to the public-public partnership in the treatment of this law, and we will also fund the privates 100% by the taxpayer's money. Then I don't know why we're even talking about private school. We are talking about giving someone permission or priority to do something as a private founder, but the country will be funding. And the only one who currently meets the criteria of the alternative education programme in this country is the RCC, the Roman Catholic Church. Are we doing someone a favor? I don't know, I'm asking you, maybe, maybe not, but you'll answer me. Another issue, the educational centres, which you sing so much, are mergers and, in your opinion, rationalisation of funds. For who? For people who live somewhere? Dear Mr. Minister, I believe that sometimes, I will tell you ours, because we both come from the same environment: "burn" the shortcut from Maribor to Destrinnik, and sometimes you go past Graden - how beautiful the school stands there, wonderful! What are you going to put her together for now that she's been in such a beautiful school for three years? You're going a little earlier to the left, I'm sorry, but I believe you've already driven through, at least at the opening, I know you've been through. You're going to put her in the center? Who are you going to save something for? People who live there? Apparently not, they'll spend more on petrol, lunch and more on the baby to take him, I believe that according to your belief in Ptuj and not Maribor. I don't know who's gonna save up here, except you and the Roman Catholic Church. The following point is added in Article 31: "The right of compulsory children to enroll in a public school in a school environment in which they reside, irrespective of the existence of a private primary school." Yeah, of course they're guaranteed if there's a public school there. Now that you're going to your forms of association, there simply won't be any of these schools. And where is the best to start and allow the only provider, currently meeting your criteria - once again, this is the RDC - the possibility of creating or establishing private schools, perhaps even in public facilities that this country and municipalities have recently redesigned and defined. That's the case, like, Jarenina, because they used to laugh when I was talking about secret meetings. There is an ideal place to set up such a private school. I believe that parents will be easier to drive their children there than at some school center near Maribor, no matter how many classes this school will be. Finally, it will not be necessary to change the director there, given that he becomes Chairman of the SDS Committee in this place and has all the political and professional affinities to remain principal at this school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Of course, this debate is varied and turbulent - what do you add to it? I have heard earlier that the funds for public school will not be reduced, but I am telling you because I come from such a congregation, that the funds for public school are already essential, essentially insufficient. I don't care if we're going to get a Catholic high school in Markets that doesn't have any high school, we're only going to take it if they come and do it. I also have no dilemma about what to say about this funding. If, of course, parents and children show this interest, then we will also support this school in the congregation, but I remind you that this system we have is now fighting for survival in some congregations. I have a decision from a health inspector, three, four years ago we have been hiding it under the carpet, that in a school 30 years old, sanitation needs to be replaced; the replacement of all sanitation is on the back of the congregation. Last year there was a change of roof - there was no more money than to replace half the roof. Now we're building four grounds for another school, and it turns out that the project was catastrophically poorly prepared, and there's extra work coming in from day to day. With the Ministry of Education, we have signed a contract for all the additional works that are now showing up, some justified, some less, of course, the Ministry of Education and Finance will not give any more. We're at that 30% and-and that's it! Nobody cares if they designed a school that doesn't have a parking lot. For us to have a usable permit, it is necessary to build a parking lot, either old or new 100,000 euro additional funds. When the school was renovated, it was discovered under wooden observation that the board was broken, that it was no longer static, that it was no longer loadable - all of this is, of course, exclusively the burden of the municipal budget. And so, of course, to think about some other things and superstandards, when we don't have that basic set-up, I'm worried, simply put, about. I'm simply moving away from all ideological hints of what will happen if I do, but I am calling you, and I ask that the system we have, of course, give more money, more attention, and then, if private stakeholders and investors are also, there is no problem - welcome. Also, as far as school centres are concerned, which are supposed to unite schools and kindergartens - I am just telling you that when this option is given to us, of course, the mayors will simply not have any other business ahead of us, it will simply be necessary to look at the money that is more and more lacking in the municipalities each day. And that is why I am afraid that when we talk about some solutions and about amending legislation that is supposed to make things simpler or cheaper, then I see in practice that the implementation of these laws, which we transpose into practice, is simply not what we say when we adopt them. Here we have a whole bunch of high-flying goals: things will be cheaper, simpler, faster, better, but unfortunately this is not the case in practice, and I am also concerned about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. Some things about setting up support centres. I would point out that centres can be established or not. So, as a local community, whether it needs it or not - it will decide on its own. There's only a chance with the law. However, the possibility is given because it was suggested by those who apparently could not establish something like this after the current law, but who felt that it would be appropriate for their environment. Article 3 sets out how they can be established and the head of the institution will, on a proposal, be the director of a, b, c, depending on how many they will be combined. Why did such a proposal come about? Because the Director was warned that they only deal with administration, accounting, accounting programmes, public calls and so on. For the teaching work for which they are trained, and which is supposed to be their priority, they have little time left. Article 49 sets out 21 tasks and may be the most important first sentence: "The Pedagogical Head and Managing Authority of Public Kindergarten or School is the Director." Now he had to deal with everything else, only what he was set up to do there. Some of you are once again expressing the fear that the local communities will come together to decide for themselves. Usually, at least after my experience, proposals come from school or kindergarten, or from where they feel that a solution would be better, then they mean at sacred schools, rather at other institutions that are in institutions, and where the matter is argued, it is not difficult to reach an agreement, usually with local February, because also municipal councillors and mayors have teachers and children who attend school in their relatives. Once again, the centers can be established. Yes, you can. If they don't have to, they won't set them up. He doesn't force anyone to set them up. Then a few words. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Perhaps only by dealing with private schools is whether or not the Roman Catholic Church will establish schools. If there's any Catholic in the 480s. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u269	Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! Regarding funding, I must also say that I regret that only private primary music schools remain those that are less funded. I understand that he went to finance by comparing those schools that were already 100% funded with those that were 85% funded, because I find it insufferable that someone from the status itself, that at the time he had this school set up for the same programme, for the same work and for that he got inappropriately more money than the one that was set up later. However, Mr Minister, I believe that the financing of Pandora's Box is 100%. We are in a market economy and if we look at the interest that these schools are set up for, then I must say that because of profits or because of the acquisition of capital, at least these interests are not in Slovenia so far and there will be no legislation. Regarding the political appetites of creating a school to try to indoctrinate people there with their political conviction, I also think that it is not, so it seems to me that in setting up schools, I think, a religious community may be using such a school to achieve religious goals. It seems to me that if such a school from a religious community is established, then with 100% funding it can still have a bearing on who it will hire, what it will do with that money, what the network will wet the school, so it's already one of the possible things. In view of the fact that every religious community that will be established would also want to have a special subject and special religious rituals, on the basis of which students in the earliest years will try to convince that this is the only saving thing in the world, it seems to me that such a thing can be broken down and that citizens and citizens of Slovenia can be dismantled by ideological means. I don't think there's much time left for us to get a mosque in Ljubljana. There are plenty of members of this religious community. I think that this religious community will also seize this opportunity, establish its own private school, think that there is another religious community, and if all of these have the same opportunities as public schools, they also have a large range of goals set by each religious community. If these things grow into a national framework, if these things become public good, then over time we will be able to witness that these very things will be a front for different fights within society, as has been the case in a few countries where such decompositions have remained based on the membership of certain religious communities. I think it's going on that with what I've said, the world's views are changing that we're present now not only in some patriarchal or in one church that's been here for centuries, not to say a thousand years, but there's going to be a new one. And if we were to fund them 100%, I'd be the minister, even if I said 90%, I'd say, "That's okay, that's blue. But if we finance 1005, Slovenia can get in trouble, which I have already warned about, and it will end with public school and with the public state.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am very pleased to note that in early 1996 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted new legislation on the regulation of the situation of private schools and kindergartens. This law has regulated the situation of private schools and kindergartens. Thus, the establishment and operation of private schools and kindergartens was arranged. And now for the novelty of the law on financing private schools. We're saying, once again, it's probably necessary to repeat, we're talking about 100% funding just and only programs. According to my assessment, it is only maybe 70% of the funding of all the costs incurred by the education process in private school. So this isn't about co-financing private school facilities. It is important, for me as a citizen, that a service, either educationally or medically, I receive, irrespective of who performs this service. It is important that this service is of quality. It's important to me as a citizen. There has been talk in the debates on elitism so far, that private schools will create elitism in the country. Is elitism if our colleague sends his son to study some musical instrument, say, in Denmark? If this happened - who in this country made a mistake? Is it elitism for someone to drive a car worth 100,000 euros? Yeah, he paid his taxes, assuming he didn't steal it. Is that elitism? Do we have to point at this with our finger on it? What is a better investment for parents to invest in certain stocks where the investment is definitely accompanied by a risk or to invest money in the form of tuition for the education of their child? Perhaps another issue concerning the RCC already mentioned hundreds of times, which is now going to be a major disaster for the country, is the establishment of the first private primary school. It is necessary to be exact, it is the Office of St. Stanislav, Štul 23, Šentvid nad Ljubljana. This institution has a rich tradition, very important for Slovenia. In the framework of this institution, there is also the Bishop's classical high school. I'm not ashamed to tell you that I had two children there. I'm not going to talk about high school success today, and we can all follow them, although there's really not much to say about them, I'm not going to talk about the number of golden graduates and so on. Look, you can get your kid into this high school, even if he's not baptized, if there's such a terrible problem now that the RCC is here and I don't know what's going to happen to this loving country right now. These are verified things, I speak from experience, and you need to be exact, you don't have to spread some kind of fear because of this unfortunate RDC that wants to, I don't know, have a hundred percent impact now on everything. Secondly, there is a music school within this institution, which has won no record or title with its singing choirs. Of course, the relationship between private and public education or public education is very different around the world, also in Europe, I think that Spain has even slightly over 50% of private schools. At the time of socialism, private schools were banned, and this ban must also be felt between us, at least the ones that we have put at least part of socialism through. Now this part of the school is slowly developing, a private part. The question arises how parents usually prefer to pay high school fees in private schools, even though they have the opportunity to enroll their children in a state or public school that is free of charge. In private schools there are quality foreign language learning, some are distinguished by other specific activities, classical languages, sports, music and art activities, social programmes, for example. This attracts parents and students and gives children a good basis for the future. There is usually more discipline in private schools, so students feel safer in private schools. Safety means less exposure to aggressive behaviour, addiction and other forms of unwanted behaviour and enables greater learning success. This also makes it possible to improve the quality of interpersonal relations. Parents in many state schools or public schools are less involved in meetings and less interested in their children’s achievements, sometimes because they come from socially depraved environments and have less interest in monitoring the progress of their children. In private schools, however, parents usually enjoy contact with the school. Parents and teachers are more motivated to cooperate. Public schools often have a worse administration, so parents have less confidence in these administrators and prefer private schools. They trust that all the money they spend on education will be used for the benefit of the students: library, additional activities, computer, extracurricular activities, and so on. Yes, private schools can also be religious, which means that the school also helps design, it must also help shape the identity of the child, because religious definition is an important part of the identity of the individual. Since public school does not help with its program, people are organized differently. Tongues. More knowledge, greater security and better relationships, good money management for the school, design of personal identity, a clear educational plan and so on. All these reasons point to the quality of school, where to invest money. Good investment means a better personal and common future. On the other hand, the public school has this advantage of being open to all and free of charge, and therefore faces so much greater challenges, especially for us, who are a small country. Only a high-quality public school will be able to gain parents' trust, so it is for teachers, especially school management and political authorities, that is, for us too, a big question - are we going to meet this challenge? I say to raise the quality of education, and I am sure that the novel of the law that we are dealing with is a pebble to this quality mosaic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I can't give a replica, Mr. Squeakle, I can't give a replica. Mr Ljubo Germič is on his turn, but he has one second, then Mrs Žgajner Tavš. Please, also have a short time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I'm really going to be very short. You know, you don't want to understand, it's not a problem in setting up a private education, it's a problem in funding, 100% funding [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] private education by the state, because I claim that public primary education and those who claim that 100,000 euros for [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u274	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. We revolve around the problem of private schools only one end, that is, from the end of elite schools, but we do not create another problem where private schools can also successfully miss or eliminate those shortcomings that have been experienced in education by those who have left public school for such or other reasons. If it pays, it's expected it'll testify. What upsets me about the mention of elitism in private education is not a lack of understanding or failure to give parents the right to raise in accordance with their beliefs, but the argument that only that valuable system is real, good and because we Slovenians have spent all the bad times, even because of the great adaptability, will, of course, have a desire for what is good and right, slowly have results in where parents want to register their children and when they are willing to give up their beliefs at the levels of education where individuals have already the right to form their relationship to the world and their free views on education. In the case of private education, in this relationship between private and public, I have pointed out in the presentation of the Group's position on one aspect that this must in fact be linked to the public consensus or the national consensus on what kind of school should be. But if we link this to funding, it must be said that the high share of private education funding is where there is also a high proportion of private education. Belgium and the Netherlands account for over 50% of schools funded from public funds because they also have a high proportion of private schools. However, where there is a low percentage of private schools, the share of co-financing from public funds is low, so that it is necessary to say related data and not just "a priori" to talk about things. Of course, I find it interesting that only Rudolf Moge pointed out that if we are talking about discriminatory financing from public funds at 100 % and 85%, then it would be good to know why private music schools are also envisaged for 85% of funding after this amendment of the law. And why is the fourth indent of Article 30, which allows resources either from the State or from the local budget to be eligible only for that school, which constitutes a substantive complement to the public network of schools or thus contributes to the possibility of exercising the constitutional right of parents to direct the upbringing of their children. Then where will the Waldorf School go, what kind of funding does it have to offer? This is not to say where they will go - we have opened up the possibility of a school which will be linked to a different belief from the majority belief associated with Slovenian religious tradition. [[...]] The question is a great deal, and earlier, Mr Director of the Directorate for Secondary and Higher Vocational Education has asked me to make sure that I am wrong and that it has already been written as it is now written. It was not written this way before, because it used to be just norms and standards, and now it's a methodology. Before there was a different funding system, now the system is after the participant in education. So it is necessary to be precise when we talk about these things so that there is no unnecessary deception or misunderstanding. The things that are different in this law and that actually raise many more questions than we have received answers to them are even more. But it seems to me now that we are talking about these discussions, especially about - in fact only one segment and we want to define ourselves "for et contra". I don't mind setting up private schools, and I don't mind my parents sending their children to these schools if they want to. The problem arises when I don't know if it's in line with the child's wishes and desires or not. And the problem will arise when I hear that when the General Education Council has given its consent, if I understand, or at least it has not seen the essential substantive concerns in the confirmation of the programme of the first Catholic primary school - I have doubts that there are no clear criteria nor any enrollment in the school environment for the admission conditions. What does that mean? Will this first private Catholic primary school reject a student who will be more than 50 kilometers away from school? What's that gonna mean? That these six-year-olds are going to start boarding school or that they're going to go to boarding school or that their parents are going to drive them every day? That's what I'm worried about. Yes, Mrs Jeraj, things need to be considered on the practical side and asked. Because if I'm thinking about where my parents were going when they weren't in Maribor at the high school, they were sent to the school in Ljubljana. And that was 14, 15-year-old kids, that's how it is. They couldn't have been all of them. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u276	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u277	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to try to answer some of the questions, the challenges raised in the debate on the amendment of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. If only I'd gone from the beginning. Some quoted me as saying that I would start my ministry or even a statement on "hearing" when I said that there would be no radical reforms and that I would open a public debate. And that's what I'm sticking to. Once again, the social dialogue that we are initiating at the Ministry in my mandate is not common. This story is not the subject of a formal social dialogue, as some, say, co-worker Cotmanov is obliged to bring some laws through institutions that are clearly defined for the introduction of social dialogue. Nevertheless, I have tried with a broad debate, with more circles, to seek dialogue and to ask NGOs and other associations and social partners for a debate. It's quite unusual. But I asked, I wrote letters that we'd met and invited them to the Ministry and went elsewhere. And then you tell me today that there was no public debate, please! The chief of staff has indeed written down a letter to the Secretary-General of the SVIZ Branimir Strukl and also to President Nevenka Tučič, in which he regrets that the union has also not responded to our invitation to meet with interested members of the Economic Social Council, which we have prepared on 15 June 2007, although the initiative has first come from the trade side. In this letter, the third paragraph actually points out the following: "In the interest of proper and legitimate communication with members of your union, we wish to further inform you that Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education applies also in the case of your activities. All entities, including trade unions operating in schools, are committed to respect the autonomy of school space." So, there was an appeal for some of the union's activities to respect the autonomy of school space. This was the only thing, it was no grave interference with the rights and freedom of union organisation, as we could read in the media and in the response of some union representatives. See, when we talk about private education, some have also warned that there will be a new period of inequality, unequal accessibility. We've been trying to do this with 100% funding and no tuition. We would like - and interestingly, the same diction as in the White Paper - to make it possible for all to have equal access to private schools, including those parents and families who cannot pay tuition. That is why we have introduced this so that everyone's accessibility is equal. When we're talking about these funds, you're repeatedly trying to prove, yeah, but now, if we give private schools that difference, there's going to be no public school. You need to know that 100% of private school funding does not cover costs. We said, you can't invest, you can't make investments, you can't make investments, you can't make investments, you can't make investment maintenance, you can make equipment, only some equipment can be run by private institutions, and they did it before this novel came. It was a practice before me, and then you didn't protest and react so strongly. However, overall, 100% of the funding of the program does not exceed 75% of the costs, which means that the person who establishes the private school enters money and funds into the school space, inputs and rich school space. This is not, in particular in the area of primary education, a profitable activity, at this level we cannot talk about any competition and the fight for higher quality and the fight of elites, such or otherwise, because it is nonsense, which I have listened to before. Financing on the head is a project that started at the Ministry of Interior to develop intensively first as a concept already in 2001. In spring 2004, he became a system category with the signature of the current minister. Today it is included in secondary schools - students attend 50 schools co-financed by the MoFAS system or by a piece, to participants. The research carried out by the CPI and the Slovenian Institute for Education shows that they give good results, that directors in large, large majority are satisfied with the fact that they enable greater functional autonomy, greater financial autonomy, easier allocation of works and tasks, in short, this system will obviously take place in the field of secondary education. And here I can congratulate my predecessor Gabra for introducing him and we're just developing him. Mr Squeakl, the positive results and reflections of this system are MoFAS. Positive. It was clear that we were reducing the powers of the General Education Council. So far, as you know, there has been sometimes a small blockade within the two professional councils that have worked, both in the General Education Council and in the Professional Council for Vocational Education, in particular because the Professional Council for General Education had certain powers in the other. We have only abolished this blockade of the system, and in this way we have also said that the Vocational Education Council is equally competent to decide on areas, although it is also a social issue in the field of vocational and professional education. I think that so far there has been a lot of mistrust about vocational and professional education, which is the most vital and developing in the direction of reforms, which are also known in the world. I can say that the very area of vocational education is also developing as quickly as possible because the economy is most encouraged by changes in this particular segment of education. And here we can say that we are also moving in step with global and European trends. The issue of the evaluation that we presented to the public yesterday is one of, say, important segments, which will certainly also reduce the rash, which is a large raccoon of European school systems, and a process of renovating the programmes at the new starting points, which were adopted five, six years ago. Some of you said we don't invest enough money in kindergartens, not enough money in primary school. The international comparison says that Slovenia invests a great deal in the entire vertical of education. And this share of gross domestic product has been increasing, even in recent years during my term, we have reached a standard or some level comparable to the Scandinavian countries. But the contribution to the 6th grade, preschool education and the first and second triads are significantly higher in Slovenia than in other OECD countries. We spend from 100 units we invest in education to 33 units in the 6th grade, the average in the OECD countries is 19. Now we can interpret this differently, or we can invest so much up to the sixth grade, up to this level of education, or our service is expensive. We can comment one way or another. It's probably the truth of both. The quality of services is also not poor. I've heard before that we have bad kindergartens, that there's too little involvement in kindergartens, and it's not. For us, participation in the first group from 0 to 3 years is 48%, far above even the recommendations of the European Union, while for the 3 to 6 years of age, inclusion is over 82%. Here we do not reach a recommendation yet, which is 90%, but 82% already quite high involvement. And we provide access to parents and children, I can say that sweet problems are particularly in those municipalities with large urban centres, where waiting periods are large and we will have to invest quite a lot with the founders in improving material conditions or spatial conditions to integrate these children's integration in the coming years. I am most affected by things that are plagued by the truth, such as a low share of public network funding and the like in reducing funding. We can say that we have been very careful to ensure that wages are stable, that wages are high enough, that, during my term of office, we immediately ensure that the last annex negotiated in the collective agreement will also be paid, paid off. This meant that between 2004 and 2006, wages in education and education increased by about 13%, in health and public administration only 6% at that time. This means that, in addition to finding a hole at the beginning of the mandate, it was worth 20 billion Slovenian tolars. At the end of 2004, there was no wage money in the budget, and we also arranged it. Members of the union like to forget such a thing sometimes, and it’s not bad to remember such things sometimes. It is also a matter of whether it is obvious that, due to new funding, new methodologies, we will close small schools or branch schools. I don't know where you got this. Firstly, we cannot close any schools because we are not founders, secondly, we do not intend to change the criteria and criteria, the standards that have been set for several years and will remain so. There is, for example, a problem with the school having only three children because the minimum standard of five children is set for the border school, but we also gave it a specificity this year and this school will remain due to a very specific situation. Yes, I've been talking to the deputy minister of Portugal recently. Portugal closed 1,500 schools last year, but only those who had fewer children than 10. Of course, there is no problem with branch and small schools, especially those with a small number of children, money, which is still the least problem. The problem is more professional in nature: Whether children in schools where there are so few children can acquire the necessary social skills they need or must receive at an early age. This socialisation process is extremely important because during these years primary and secondary socialisations cross and it is crucial that they acquire social skills. That's the main problem, not the money. Money in maintaining the system was never a problem or a problem in branch schools, at least in my mandate. The professional aspect is therefore crucial. And today we have already talked to some experts about simply opening this debate, telling experts whether it is right or wrong, and this is more important for the mayors and school founders than for the ministry itself, which does not have the authority to take any action in this area. We did not invent 100% of funding in this mandate, but it is a prelude to past ministries and governments. We are simply eliminating duality and, as I have already said, we are in no way changing the concept of privacy, which comes from a white book from the mid-1990s and the 1996 ZOFVI law. We're not changing anything. And those who attack this ministry or us today should address these findings to someone else who has established all of this a long time ago. Even today and tomorrow the public school will become the backbone of the Slovenian school system, in no way will the situation change dramatically, because education in Slovenia is not a profitable activity, you need to understand this. If someone decides to have a primary school, he will have to invest a lot of money to build, maintain, and equip the matter and then ensure all the other conditions. You've been talking about various terrorist schools, religious terrorism and the like. It's just not possible for something like this to happen because we have expert bodies that confirm the curriculum. Each programme must be made public and cannot just pass through the professional world. I'm guessing the procedures are clear, and he's a hundred fathoms. However, if anyone had the motive to establish a religious extremist school, it would have been based on 85% funding by now because he had all the legal bases for it. This change will in no way accelerate the establishment of private schools. If that were so interesting, it would have happened by now if it were so attractive. The shift can only be in the field of vocational education, and that is probably what we all want together, that large corporations, "hards" can also design their own school. I would very much like Krka or Gorenje to set up a private school. We don't do any concessions to the Roman Catholic Church either, I don't owe her anything, she doesn't owe me anything. However, it is probably one of the few civil society organisations that could organise a few schools, but certainly not as many in the future as it has been so far. When there was a speech earlier, Mr Zagorac mentioned some issues about the integration and integration of schools, which are supposed to lose their identity, it is necessary to say that some schools, because of this possibility, can also resolve to stand to join a larger school or a larger centre. This is the case of Muta and Metlik. Most of the problems, honourable Members and Members mentioned tonight, are related to one problem which is common, common, these are negative demographic trends. There are too few children, all of which are also annoyed by the school system, including the union, including us, but I am sure that things are changing, that demographic trends are also slowly turning. However, even if in the future we do not get the desired increase in the number of children, I am not concerned or concerned about the fate of teaching in Slovenia. Formally, the school system is only one of the fields where it is educated. Various forms of informal and informal education are gaining an increasing role in Slovenia and the world. And here we're going to need a lot of good, capable teaching staff. Informal forms of education are acquired at value. All over the world, there is talk of recognition of competences acquired in the area of informal education. And we also open doors with us, especially in the field of secondary education. So, you can transfer some kind of competence, knowledge that's credit-rated into the system, into the formal school system. And here a large field is opened for the employment of teachers, so that the fears that are sometimes really great in this area are superfluous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u278	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask you whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Check-in is on. I warn you, given the rest of the time, any debater can discuss a good 4 minutes. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u279	Thank you. Several times it was said in this debate that financing in private education is essentially financing in the Church or in private schools. In doing so, I would like to say that this is financing for children or investment in children attending this school and is not conditioned by whether they are members of the Church or of the religious community. That's why it's right to say clearly here, and I think that's actually good, that it's 100%, because in this way the parent's contributions will be smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u281	Thank you. I was running out of time to tell you some things from our constitution. We have heard that Article 57 of the Constitution speaks about education and education and puts up three, so education is free, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. The state creates opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education. But in addition to the article, there is also a need to read some explanation for these articles and the constitutional decisions issued by the Constitutional Court in this regard. And in one of the explanations, the Constitutional Court states that freedom of education at constitutional level guarantees individuals and legal persons the right to establish private schools. The existence of private education as a constitutional institution is linked to Article 14, which speaks of respect for the principle of equality and has important effects on the equal protection of constitutional rights. They point out that private schools should not be neglected because of their possible different forms of education and content compared to public schools. And further in one of the constitutional decisions of 2001 it is the Constitutional Court's view that the legislator's decision to finance the state as a whole only public schools is in the field of the legislator's judgment and therefore it is not contrary to the Constitution - it is not possible to establish it when it comes to primary education. In this case, both constitutional rights must be maintained: the right to freedom of education referred to in Article 57(1) and the right to be financed by public funding for each primary school with a sufficient number of pupils. This means that the State must ensure the financing of primary schools while respecting the principle of equality and equal protection of rights, without discrimination, on the same terms as public and private schools. And maybe another paragraph. In Article 57, paragraph 2, the Constitution itself imposes a special restriction on the freedom of primary education, where the decision on participation is not left to the free choice of pupils or their parents, but is compulsory for primary education. At the same time, the same constitutional provision obliges the State to finance primary education through public funding. Therefore, if the state has prescribed that something is compulsory, it is also obliged to provide funds and cannot be the same for non-binding music schools. However, primary school is compulsory and it is therefore the duty of the State to ensure this for programmes which it has recognised as valid.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I naively thought that there would be a shorter debate at this point, because much had been said already at the previous point, so I had no intention of discussing it. Nevertheless, a few words and opinions of my own, especially because, at least if I heard correctly, I was directly challenged by a colleague of mags. In its presentation of the SD Group's position, the expenditure mentioned that a private school is also financed in Medvod. She doesn't have the right information, she's wrong, and I told her that a while ago. And I have a feeling that in this space, by the way, there's also some kind of false or half-truth. Even with this amendment, we must ask ourselves whether we are for change or not. The novel follows the principles and objectives of the 1996 White Paper when it was financed 100% and 85% before 1996. And we know who had power in that year who had power before 1996. That's why we don't need calls and lectures from a fellow Squirrel. We only follow the goals adopted and set by the previous authorities. According to public research, such as the Finance Journal, for example, a large majority of respondents believe that private schools would help improve the efficiency and quality of education, in order to improve the quality of the education process in public schools, competition is a powerful tool for improving quality in all areas, including in the field of education. We must make sure that all children receive a quality education that counts for something and is competitive in today's world, but not that the opposition complains about everything that interferes with the marriage solution so far. The proposed amendments do not change the starting points of the current law, but they correspond to the ambition to ensure the same position for all private schools, that is 100% funding in the implementation of the programme. And with regard to the tips given in the debates that the elite of the rich will be educated in private schools. It would be interesting to see the structure of previous private schools, both primary schools and six secondary schools, as well as the Šentvid Škofov High Schools, whether these private schools are really rich or are a mixed group of rich, less rich and poor children. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] parents, left or right defined. [[...]] This, the data would be very interesting and I'm sure you'd be surprised, and there would be less difficult words and different insinuations. The proposal concludes that the law goes into further consideration, and I will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I also assess that there is too much debate about such an unracial amendment to the law on financing education and education, although this novelty is clearly radical. Even if we look at the financial consequences of this amendment, it is true that I am paying attention to every euro from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but the financial consequences are relatively small, very small. And interestingly, we are talking about these financial consequences for four or even eight hours, the 20 billion-dollar hole that "set" at the end of 2004 in this school district, and we haven't actually talked for 10 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. But there are some things you need to talk about. First you talk about elite, mate. First: the elite does not necessarily mean a negative omen. But given that you've mixed it up with wealth, I'm asking a rhetorical question. Let him raise his hand in this hall who believes Jankovich and the other transition tycoons will send their children to a Catholic school? Since you had so much to say about it. Thank you, no hands up, you answered your own statements. What you have to say is this. Elita, colleagues, the future elite are all Slovenian children. And we owe it to this elite to provide the best possible education and the best possible education. Each parent has every right to make his own decision in accordance with his or her beliefs. This is guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution. That's what I said at the beginning. And here is the answer to your transfer today, because this transfer puts it in the right light only by the 2001 Constitutional Court ruling, which is the composition to which you swore so many times. This Constitutional Court has ruled that every primary school has the right to full funding from public funds and that no discrimination is admissible, that it is not within the legislator's jurisdiction to judge this. Exactly what you wanted to do today. This was decided by the Constitutional Court in the composition to which you referred so many times in 2001. And you know that because I believe you're unschooled people, but I'm sure you know very well what you're doing. Second thing to say. When we are talking about the establishment of private education and the Constitutional Court has also come out of it, it is about paying for knowledge. This is not about the state setting up a school for someone to get rich like that. On the contrary, an individual, an enterprise, whoever else, will have to invest as a private person, will have to contribute, and only then, for acquired knowledge, therefore for acquired wealth and for acquired education, which is also a good that is constantly forgotten in some debates today, and will be paid in full from public funds. Because this is what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues require. Well, once we do, I hope, at least on this point, let me just finish a few more words. Right [[...]] [[Laughing in the hall]] to education; of course, colleagues, you can laugh, laugh at constitutional rights, laugh at the right to choose, laugh at the upbringing. [[...]] By doing so, you yourself have shown what kind of ethics you are overpowering and what kind of education you are raising. And believe me, as a father, I will do everything that my children will not be like to you in anything, that once they come from school, they will know what is good and what is bad, that they will know that crime is a crime and that any sign of totalitarianism is equal to each other, that swastika cost the lives of 50 million people, and the red star has cost 106 million lives so that I don't talk about the suffering of everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u288	Mr Grims, would you please stick to the subject we're discussing, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u289	The theme is the issue of education and the question of values, and this is a fundamental issue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u290	I was just thinking about raising you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u291	where every child has the right to be aware of what European values are, to be aware of what the rule of law is, to be aware of what is a positive right, to be aware that the words of the interlocutor are respected [[..]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please, what do you want? [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Excuse me. [[..]] I really missed it because I kind of got caught up in these speeches. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor and I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u293	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! You know, he doesn't know all about it, and all minds haven't been swallowed by a respected coalition either. If you already want to know, let me read to you or tell you what is written in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary under the word elitism, distinguished gentlemen and ladies in the coalition. It is a matter of belonging to the advantages of the social situation in different areas of social activity. It's elitism. And I say from this city that this government is doing exactly that in the field of education. When I thought at the beginning that the coalition had won the papaya teaching, this is the teaching that is so much defended and parents and teachers in Slovenian public primary schools, yes, then my colleague, I think Ljublješek was from the coalition, warned that this is not the case. Why? Because the Minister claims that when we talk about private education in primary education we cannot talk about competitiveness, Mr Ljubeljšek said how good competition is, competition when we are talking about the establishment of private education in the framework of basic education in our area. You are somewhat exclusive of the opinions of those who advocate the law and those who will ultimately decide the content of this law. And one more thing. I believe you all have a very good faith in the Minister's words. The Minister himself. I have already said that he is very handy when he speaks or in the search for the beautiful words with which he wants to present himself, his appearance to the wider Slovenian public. And I say that this law is not harmonised. It is not consistent with the social partners, it is not consistent with the expertise and, hand-to-heart, it is also not coordinated within all those political parties with which the Minister, with all his team, conducted prior talks. If, in this last explanation, the Minister said that he supported and would support the existence of those smallest primary schools, public primary schools, that it was not a matter of rationalisation, that the money was sufficient in the system of Slovenian primary education, then something was very wrong with the same minister, who, in an interview with the Slovenian National Party Group, made it clear and loud that the current system of Slovenian primary education was too expensive and that something in this area must be done. And that's what the minister will do. Yeah. The Minister will do so with the help of the coalition. But I still don't understand and I didn't get the answer to the question why it's necessary to set up and fund 100%, and if you want, a private primary school program. Yes, it is true that Slovenian private primary education is not a profitable activity. Yeah, I don't think so. But one more fact must be taken into account. Who can set up a private primary school? Only those who have a publicly recognised or certified alternative education programme. Who has a publicly recognised alternative education programme, respected colleagues and colleagues? The Waldorf School has it. Anyone else? Well done, Roman Catholic Church. That's it. Then we came to a wonderful conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u295	Dear Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Mr Minister with Fellow Workers! In the law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, in fact, I do not mind the type of matters that we have discussed today. But the thing that bothers me the most is this strong bit of change. The school system is not an insensitive matter. It touches not only teachers, educators, but especially children. And here in this bill is some of the things we have seen in this country of Slovenia, not in this country, but in this country. Many of us went through various forms, through various experiments they did there in the 1970s and 1980s. One of these was also a great desire, which at the time, with such ideology, was now based on different grounds, but these were educational centres. Children’s education combinations, which have brought mainly a lot of non-discipline, which we have heard about today, problems for teachers, problems for parents, and so on. When this overcame, and when there was peace for a while, now someone has been attacked again to have educational centres. Because it's too little money for everything he thinks he could be. In order for the money to be even less money, one part would put it in private education. This private education, of course, whether it will be elitist or not, is another question. But we can look around the world at what happens when money, which is intended for a public structure, but which provides the same starting points at least until a certain age, starts to devote to a private structure. We get very bad public health, we get very bad public education, but of course we get private education, private health care, but everything private, for the electorate, I'm not going to say it's for the elite, or it's for the elite, but it's definitely a selected part of the population, which is, of course, rewarded in different ways. It can be rewarded with tax gifts, this has already happened to us several times, with various "bypasses", past the constitution, and in some other way. And this bill also brings all of this. Not only does this dictatorship smell and everything that is in some way implemented in the text say that the Minister keeps talking about how he negotiated. Figo Fresco was making a deal! He came among the people, came to the parliamentary groups, said that he had some frameworks that would be good to talk about, he left and he was gone. And that's supposed to be the deal. Of course, that's not the deal. Just because I meet someone on the road and say good day doesn't mean I've talked to them and talked to them. Well, that's a difference. As far as school experiments are concerned, they never turned out to be very good. And if we have already gone to these combinations in primary education in some way now, there is also a promise in secondary education to revitalize secondary education, which has also proved to be very bad. It is said to be a complete breakdown of the system, but because it is not an idea, it is also a good parrotic imitation of something that has already proved to be bad. That is why, of course, I am not for this law to be discussed further, but for the fate of Slovenian education to be discussed. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Here today is a lot of mention of the white book, by the way, in 1995 it was published, a few years before. Those who said that they had read it read what they read in 1996, so they read it in English, which is also good, because the English version of the same book was published. It defined something very elementary. International pacts dealing with the issue of private education have been reviewed. On the basis of this review, something that is more or less commonly known today is that countries are obliged to provide opportunities for private schools, but they are not, like our neighbours, such as Italy, no, a country with a long democratic tradition, to finance them. At that time, we decided to finance them. This Parliament has adopted a decision to finance them up to 85%. At the time, 85% did not appear to be discriminatory in relation to up to 100%. Why don't I explain it because there's a fog around this? We were aware at the time, and we followed the Norwegian work to find certain schools in the country that had concessions. And these were mostly church schools. We wanted to make it possible for all these schools to change their status even if they didn't have concession schools anymore, but private schools under the usual funding system, so they wouldn't get less. The Norwegians did something similar for their higher education long before us, nothing innovative, very much reading and reviewing other systems was in the background. So it is possible to say today that this is discriminatory, that there is nowhere in the world to be arranged, but for everyone who deals with these things, it is clear that this is not the case. We were actually protecting someone's standard. Let me touch another question. Private schools should be discussed soberly, but I repeat, the precondition for a sober discussion of private schools has been safeguarded with regard to the public network. Whoever does not, and for public schools and kindergartens, claims that they will somehow find themselves, and especially for private ones, especially if it is known that these schools are defined ideological profilings, this risk will not reach any consensus on these issues in society. And that's exactly what's happening to someone who's taking such a risk. We know absolutely without any major difficulties to end up at the referendum and at the referendum get a result that will not make sense to education in this country in general. I think it's wise for us to be aware of that today. As regards funding, indirectly, this debate did not begin in 2001, these discussions began in 1997 within the Ministry. We were initially preparing Kosovo funding for higher education. For a very long time we have dealt with this, very precisely and we have not introduced the principal, the chieftain is the wrong concept, but he who uses it most likely demonstrates that he has not gone very deeply into the debate on this issue. There's no way to solve this with a head. Why not? Now I don't have time to explain. What we have decided is that this system, if the regulation were parallel to the table, would also, I think, be otherwise discussed by Parliament today. To discuss whether to introduce such a thing in secondary schools, I personally think that a meaningful co-financing system can be introduced that it is not a problem at the principal level. The problem is whether we have a regulation to tell us how we will protect small schools, how we will protect demographically endangered areas and everything else that belongs to us. These issues should be discussed. I suggest not in Parliament. Parliament is too much room for this, in the working groups before this, and partners need to agree on these things if you want them to confirm it at all, let alone if you want to do it. If you didn't make a deal, you fell in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u299	Thank you so much for saying that. From today's debate, I'm sure someone could get the feeling that Minister Beast is a really bad beast. He says that he has invited, asked, referred to many different institutions, non-governmental organisations, not least teachers and those who work in education. But somehow they didn't come, maybe they didn't want to come, because of this thinking about the feelings of some, but it is certainly his responsibility, it is certainly the responsibility of the minister, if, despite all these attempts, if, despite all these invitations, he has failed to reach such agreements, he has failed to create such a climate in which there would be at least a minimum consensus, but not that we are now considering a law that is against practically everyone. Surely I have not yet received the answer to many questions. I put some up yesterday, and the minister is really a master of escape and bypassing the answers. The question that I quoted earlier is how it will address the level of public education, the quality of public education. It talks about the structure, how many public schools there are, how many public schools there are, and how many private schools there are. Last but not least, I asked him why he didn't decide if he was already trying to unify the funding to give everyone 85%, just like he had always left in music schools. There was no answer to that, of course. Music schools are now, according to him, in a discriminatory position. I hope that representatives of music schools will ask the Constitutional Court about this discrimination. And the fact that education will get more, if someone is now going to invest in buildings, private buildings, where private schools are going to be located, of course, is not the answer that education is going to get anymore. We primarily need to take care of public education, i.e. public schools. And what's gonna happen? Now we have so many public schools that we know that the population will grow smaller and probably some will be superfluous. If we get some more private schools to these public schools, there will be just as many as there will be additional private schools in the public domain too. And what do we do with them? They're gonna have to be locked up. This is one thing or, of course, at the expense of higher costs to ensure their operation, their operation. The last option seems nicer to me. Why? Because of the fact that the smaller classes and the level, the quality of teaching will be higher and our students in public schools will receive more. Unfortunately, however, we cannot count on the Minister to make a decision because his first moves or moves from a while ago show exactly the opposite. It removes the number of departments, which was discussed earlier. As a result, we cannot assess that this is a good law, that it is a law that is worthy of Slovenian schools and that will regulate Slovenian schools well. As such, of course, I cannot support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u301	Thank you very much. The debate was long and difficult, but not only the debate in this Chamber, but also the debate that has been taking place in the public for some time. In fact, they say that the debate carries everything, if not everything, at least a lot. And so it was with this debate. I have no objection to the critical debate myself. Any critical debate can certainly be useful if it is constructive. However, I think that there was a lot of debate that was also unconstructive. However, I can understand this, and I understand more difficult perhaps all the debates relating to the issue of private schools, the issue of elitism. And I find it difficult to understand those who have had so many comments and reservations about private schools, but at the same time, many of them have no reservations about their children or their life partners being educated at private universities in the United States. Now I don't know if these United States alone is such a good private school, but we wouldn't do that or what, but they don't have any special reservations about it. I think that this law is going in a positive direction, although it is not some radical movement, but it is a step in the right direction and a step in the right direction, where it has already proved to be a success in other comparable countries, in other developed countries. And if we're going this way, then of course we need to say hello. If things have worked out in the developed world, then I don't think we should be ashamed or anything. It is clear to me that Slovenia and all of us who live here would survive even if we did not go through these changes. We also survived the "kumrovski" school in the system before independence, although even that school was mentioned by some as being an elite school, although it is also a question of what status it had. But many of the former officials in that system today appear among the critics of this school, this solution that is written in this law. So I think they've changed their position very radically as well. Although, of course, it was not a comparable system to the developed world at the time, but a purely different one, a solution that was more responsible for one political elite. But at least today we could be quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Squeak. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, I congratulate you on the calm nerves of today's debate, even though I believe that some have gone far over the edge. About Anna Kucanova's schooling in the U.S. I think she went 30 years after Dimitri Rupel and someone else went there. And these are perfectly fine schools, unlike Jesuits and some others. But let's leave school aside. The issue of elitism that we discussed today is related to what colleague Žgajner Tavš said it is a matter of priority. On the issue of elitism, however, there is another major problem that may have been misunderstood by colleague Horvat. It is a matter of equality or inequality of access. First of all, it's an economic and material question. Of course, you have enough money to send your kids to the high school. Then it's another question of whether your child in primary school has reached, as indicated here, the first page of the Sofia classic high school, entry 172 points. Material status, good primary schools and then third elimination condition. Students are obliged to accept the school’s curriculum, its Christian orientation, etc. when enrolled in the school’s classical high school. Thus, at least for the non-Christian part of the students in the Republic of Slovenia it is not possible to enroll in the bishoply classical high school. I'm sorry, the school rules are clear on this. And then follow, gentlemen, the subject. And what's interesting is that the first item is not Slovenian. Do you know what the first class of the high school is? What? Faith and culture. You can look at the website. I don't have to go to the high school. Three conditions: an economic, good primary school and the adoption of Christian guidance create inequality of access. And you know, gentlemen, in terms of inequality and equality of access, I'm going to read you 19 articles of the rules on the school order of the archdiocese of classical high school speaking about it. If we go back to the question of equality or inequality. By promoting private education with 100% funding, you will reduce the transition between generations in public education. Public schools will get worse because there will be a movement of the best teachers into private schools with 100% funding and you will have a vicious circle that is happening in many places that city centres with public schools are failing. I've lived in some countries where that's the case. And you have two different worlds. You have a private school world, you have a public school world. And the private school world also means, if you want, private buses for these kids. And then the question is whether we will divide our children into two groups in Slovenia. Those who are economically capable of having such parents go to elite schools. This is no longer a fair society. And by the way, in the ratified European Constitution, here we have ratified it, it says that in Europe we stand for a just society. And a society that no longer ensures equality of access is no longer a fair society for seven-year-olds. And in the end, about the Minister's desire to have Gorenje have their primary school. Let him go to Velenje. There are six primary schools built by Gorenje and three secondary schools created in Velenje due to Gorenje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 23.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LAW IN THE COMPANY IN THE APPLICATION OF THE CONNECTION OF SINDICATS OF SLOVENIA. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope there's still some concentration at this late hour on such an interesting subject as the acquisition of union property. This is a problem that has been going on since 1990. It is a Gordy knot that must finally be cut, which is 17 years old, since we moved into the union area in Slovenia from the system of trade unions to the plural system of trade unionism. This is probably the last piece of social property that gets a famous owner in Slovenia. The main principle that led us in the drafting of this law was that the Government should be only an intermediary and that, if possible, unions should agree on the sharing of this property between themselves. Of course, at the beginning of the drafting of this law, we made it clear to the unions that if this agreement did not happen, the Government would cut the Gordy knot with law. Well, there's been a deal. The property law shares the union property in accordance with the agreement reached between the unions. First of all, this agreement was concluded by seven major trade unions or confederates, which bring together about 90% of the membership, and then we sent this agreement and the law to coordinate with other representative trade unions at the level of the country, some of them came forward with their comments, and then we sent seven trade unions into a new coordination circle, so that they gained a number of other representative trade unions, and we can really say that this law represents an extremely broad consensus among trade unions on how to distribute assets. However, it is a large property to mention only a few pieces of this property: a house of trade unions in Dalmatia, Ljubljana, a union educational centre in Radovljica, a working house in Kranj, apartments, holiday houses, garages, business premises, parcels and so on. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u306	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u307	Good evening! Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, fellow Members! At its 35th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law on the property ownership of social property in the application of the Union of Trade Unions of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer, Minister Gregor Virant, provided an additional explanation for the bill and stressed in particular that the main principle in drafting the bill was that the government would act only as an intermediary, while the agreement on the sharing of the property concerned was left to trade unions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented her initial written opinion and stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had pointed out the individual necessary improvements to the proposed legislative text, but those comments had already been taken into account in the form of proposed amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups. Members and members of the Committee were particularly interested in the debate as to whether the proposal for a law covers all land or all property and how likely it is that a certain part of the union property was covered by it and who is the legal successor of the local trade union councils in those cases. In response to the question raised, the Minister said that the applicant relied on trade union data when defining the scope of the property concerned. However, the bill also contains a security guard in Article 8 which gives trade unions the possibility to own property in social property and use trade unions even in cases where such property is not covered by the annex to the bill, namely in the co-ownership shares set out in the agreement. The Committee thus adopted the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS, DeSUS, as well as its amendment, and finally supported all the proposed articles of the law together and also proposed them to this respected assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u308	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Marjan Drofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u309	Dear Vice President! Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia, property ownership in social property in the use of the Union of Unions of Slovenia remains unregulated until today. Social property as the rest of the former regime is, in our view, an area that needs to be regulated as soon as possible and brought into line with the existing situation. The basic purpose of the proposed law is to own the property of the trade union, where social property rights still exist. Social property was largely abolished in the 1990s and this bill is still being removed where it is still preserved. The draft law was drawn up by agreement between the union organisations involved and allows for the conditions for the entry of property rights into the land book. This would regulate the ownership of properties where the right of use for the Union of Unions of Slovenia, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and their organisations is still enshrined in the Land Book. This bill also provides for a way of dividing the property of one entity into a larger number of legal successors. The Union of Unions of Slovenia was a monopolistic holder of the right of use in the system of social property. However, according to the proposal of the law, the ownership right from the monopoly beneficiary would be transferred to several beneficiaries, resulting from the plural trade union organisation. The beneficiaries of this property right would be both trade union organisations, 7 trade unions with more than 90% union membership in the Republic of Slovenia, and trade unions that are representative of the activities or professions at national level. The agreement concluded between the union organisations involved is the basis of the bill and we think it is a positive starting point for legislative changes in this area. Social property is thus transformed into property right, which is the fundamental property right of the market socio-economic system. Members of the Slovenian People's Party had, on a proposal for a law, some comments which would not have been clarified more precisely on this occasion, as they were presented with the amendments tabled, which were also adopted. We believe that the proposal for a law is good and adequately regulates the area of property ownership in social property and is therefore suitable for admission to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We've skipped something, but let me say a few words on behalf of the Dessus Group on this bill. First of all, we are pleased that, after at least some have tried all day to maintain a tense atmosphere in Parliament, now comes a few minutes to relax. This release is based on a simple fact that we are dealing with one of the rare laws that will be adopted on the basis of an agreement. If only there had been as many such laws as possible, which would be the basis for the agreement, then there would probably be less need for a postponement veto or a constitutional appeal and possibly even decisions of the Constitutional Court, which annuls either parts or whole laws that we adopt. This is something that the drafter of this law is rather pleased to do, so I would now like to express my appreciation in the sense that in this case he has taken only the role, when he himself said, of intermediating that he did not force his will on those who had to agree. Mr Minister also mentioned interestingness, this law is one of the interesting things, or rather, more than interesting, it is rare to talk in Parliament, which is based on an agreement that was previously adopted. Therefore, for those who are usually in union, it is evident that they are not prepared and are not able to conclude agreements. So if we do our best, we are likely at all ends and places ready to do something about how we know how to agree. The other thing we would like to say about it is that it really goes back to the memory of one of the forms of property, that is, social property. I would like to point out that this property right, in which the application of the right is now being transformed, is not the same property right as it once was, individualised so to speak, an absolute right over an object. This property, this property right that we have the opportunity to talk about today and which we are exercising, is, for example, almost contaminated. It's contaminated with society. He has important limitations. It's also written in the constitution. The restrictions by favouring social interest over private interests, even in any other law we have already written down, for example, in the Spatial Planning Act, are contaminated by the exercise of the right to be other, of nature, by the right to preserve natural and cultural heritage and is limited by the principles of justice. So she can't be in conflict and can't be absolute. I am saying this for the sake of this, because this form of ownership is probably not the last one to be recognized, even in the future, and also for a period of time between which contributed significantly to this social nature of property, probably not a period that would only contribute poorly. This is due mainly to the fact that in the middle of this, several observations were heard on some of the institutions and on the conduct and values of the past, which many of us, so to speak, have also been creating here in the Chamber, only that some of them are aware of it and others are not. The Social Property Property Act, which allowed for an "ex lege" change from the right of use to the right of ownership, was not suitable for the property of the union, nor was it, since it was a union itself at the time. And if we were to implement this law directly and fully, then we would sort of divide the remaining six trade unions and those representative unions that are still written in this law. Well, it is true that they have succeeded in such important things, how to distribute assets in the form of business premises, land, holiday capacities and so on, to agree. We would like to call, within the framework of the DeSUS Group, for as many laws as possible to be passed in this House to be preceded by agreements and not just majorisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, on behalf of the SDS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u313	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We will, of course, support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. By nature, work is against capital in a worse position, in a worse position, and therefore laws protecting employees are passed, so we conclude collective agreements and therefore trade unions perform an important function. It is true that unions must first be independent, independent and also have equivalent conditions for their operation. At the time we lived in the previous country, in the previous social system, we had only one union. With the democratisation of our society, many other unions have come with a country of their own, and the assets that have been created and created together have remained in the management or ownership of only one union. And it is right that this property should be fairly and fairly distributed. In our party, we support the approach that trade unions have found an agreement to find agreement on the sharing of this property. We think this is the right approach, so we will support the law. That they are on the right track also shows the opinion of some European trade unions, which welcome this approach and also recommend it for other countries. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary! Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the property ownership of social property in the use of the Union of Trade Unions of Slovenia. I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that an agreement has finally been reached between all the trade unions concerned, and to thank the Minister for his assistance. At the same time, I would say that such agreement on how to distribute the assets of the former Union of Unions of Slovenia in this National Assembly has not always been the case. There have been attempts by some parties to maintain ownership, attempts to regulate these issues through law, not through a direct agreement of all interested parties. That is why it is so much more beautiful that today we are all satisfied with this agreement and that we will uphold the law. I am also happy about this, because this may only preserve part of the social property for workers, because workers have lost much of the system. Let us remember how much social, sometimes social housing has gone down through the ownership of companies, how much there has been in common consumption, holiday homes and similar to the downfall or property of others, even though they have not created it, and luckily there will be at least part of what was left of union property, and allowing trade unions to be organised as at national level to have the conditions created for their operations. I believe it's for the benefit of employees and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u316	Thank you very much. And Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u317	Good evening again. Today, the law, which will also formally divide the inherited property of the formerly only union, is before us. After 16 years of difficult and unsuccessful negotiations last November, the union's representatives finally agreed and signed an agreement on the sharing of assets, which also led to a proposal for a law. The majority of the assets that remained undistributed and still held social property belonged to the Union of Free Trade Unions under the agreement and annexes and are also provided for those unions that are not connected to any of the trade unions and are representative of the activities or professions at national level and share the remaining assets with the six trade unions. In Novi Slovenija we also believe that the path from agreement to the bill was the right way to resolve the long-standing issue of ownership. We also support the openness of the provision of the law's proposal that trade unions that did not participate in the conclusion of the agreement will still have a certain opportunity to apply for participation in the ownership of the trade union property. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u318	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will hold a third hearing and vote on the bill tomorrow, Wednesday 11 July 2007, in the framework of the votes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item or I ask you because I am interrupting the meeting of the assembly if I interrupt it in 10 minutes and then we continue to vote. Would you like to be interrupted for half an hour as usual? I see it's a discussion. I'm adjourning the assembly session for half an hour. Continue with [[...]] [[to talk to each other.]] I'm sorry. At 11:00 and 10 minutes, we'll resume the assembly meeting. [[..]] I'm closing this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u319	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is by deciding on amendments in the context of the second reading to the Proposal for a Medical Act We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Mrs. Zalokareva, do you have a procedural question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u320	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. This morning, during the consideration of the draft Law on Medicine, we proposed that before deciding on the amendments, we obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on certain future inconsistencies, in particular because the law does not refer to what medical methods and systems are, and because there are also future inconsistencies within the law. I ask whether such an opinion is prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service. If it is not, I suggest that we do not vote today, because at least in our parliamentary group we would like to know and consider this opinion before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u321	Thank you so much for asking. I have an answer in my hand for the Legal and Legal Service. On the basis of Article 66, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as regards your question raised at the 30th meeting of the National Assembly on 10.7.2007 concerning the 5th item of the agenda of the draft Law on Medicine. If it pleases you, I will read to you a part of what concerns your question. Do you want us to stop the meeting for a certain time and get all the Members to get this on the bench? But I'll read it first. Not everything, but essential what it is. "We are from the point of view of our responsibilities..." Please, if it can be peace. I offer you a shorter option if you agree with this, of course, if there is peace in the hall. "From the point of view of our competence, we have therefore examined the proposed provision of Article 4, which sets out medical systems and medical methods in a descriptive manner and sets out a more specific definition of them according to the working body adopted by the amendment to the Minister. We are of the opinion that that provision is not inconsistent with the Constitution. We believe that, when the medical systems and medical methods are listed in that provision, they are also sufficiently specified, which also provides the substantive framework for their more detailed definition, to be determined by the Minister by means of a sub-legislative act." And hereafter: "In relation to the second part of the issue relating to the timely harmonisation of the individual provisions of the law, we explain that Articles 50 and 51 of the law set deadlines, which does not prevent the Minister from carrying out an individual act or act or issuing it before the end of a specified period." Are you satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. Then I don't think it's necessary for us to reproduce this thing and end the meeting of the assembly. Thank you. Therefore, we continue to decide on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, unrelated Members and SD to Article 2. If the amendment is accepted, the amendment under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the MP of the SNS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group of Members, as well as the substantive amendment of the LDS Group of Members, the unrelated Members and the SD to Article 4. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP-related Members and SD to Article 5. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 5. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted for 32 votes to 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. We're voting. 76 Members and Members voted for 56 to 14. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group of Members and the substantive amendment of the LDS, NP and SD groups to Article 9. We're voting. 79 Members and Members voted for 34 to 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD to Article 24. We're voting. 79 Members and Members, 34 votes to 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD to Article 25. We're voting. There were 78 votes in favour and 34 in favour against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD to Article 31. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 18. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 33.a. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD to Article 38. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 38. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 16. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 45. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 47. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD to Article 50. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 16. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD to Article 51. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[For the vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 51. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 14. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS, NP and SD to Article 51. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[It's a 35-year-old vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than 1/10 of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended bill, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 5. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 5]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 46 votes against 32. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, the first is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Culture Education and Sport as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold a third hearing, namely a vote on the Proposal for a Law on the Ownership of Real Estate in Social Property in the Use of the Union of Trade Unions of Slovenia, will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 July 2007, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Rudolf Mojet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janš to Mr Rudolf Mojet's question on the functioning of the Ministry of Defence's intelligence and security. Mr Moze, you have the floor, please, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u322	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u323	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u324	The Group of Members will certainly support this initiative. It's just that the Prime Minister made two mistakes yesterday in his response. The first was that he didn't answer my question at all. And the other was that he was telling the truth. That's what I'm basing it on. He says that I have explained these things many times, including to the honourable Member, who led two such investigative committees when I showed him one or one full term, and this Commission was only working from April 1999 to 2000, when the elections were held. First malpractice. The other thing is, there were no black funds. Ladies and gentlemen, look, Mr Janez Janša said on 25 November 1999: "If you ask us whether we bought weapons for cash and if you ask if we sold weapons for cash, my answer is yes. We bought guns and sold them for cash." Mr Brane Praznik made a public statement that when he counted this cash, he counted 17 million German marks in one night. The book I told you about speaks of the fact that only 28 marks were given at Jelko Kacin's handover to the Ministry and witnesses said there were at least 136 million German marks. Anton Pijnkihar said before the investigative commissions, "I counted the money from the arms trade." He said that Mr Andrej Lošin, the head of VOM, who later handed it over to Mr Krkovic, led this fund in cash. And this one took it to Dolenjska. So that's not what it was. When we looked into this, all the tapes of this hearing disappeared, and then we had to struggle to get these things. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will be chairing the European Union next year. I think it's good for our internal security, that these things that are written here, these things that have been rolling on countless committees that we've discussed, that we should clear up once and for all, and that we should pour pure wine within the parliamentary procedure. Therefore, it would be good to have something in our pants to confirm this decision here and to open this debate once again in the National Assembly. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will all vote in favour of this decision in unison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u325	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Ms Marjeta Cotman to the question of mags. Majde Potrat, on the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education in the Economic and Social Council. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Saš Pečet about ways to sell electricity from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Slavko Gabra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Milan Zver to the question of equality before the law in connection with domestic education. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Squikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. God's Chamberlain on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the Mr. Cwickl, you have the floor to explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u326	I'll do it in my own name so we can make time. Earlier, you did not want to support Mr Rudi Mojet's proposal to discuss the so-called past corrupt, clientelistic and I do not know what actions. I'm giving you a chance to discuss the current ones. Mr Božo Dialič, Secretary-General of the Government, has a salary based on the old and new system as minister, but unlike ministers, he sits in the supervisory boards of economic companies and, in addition to his salary, 2,600 Euros as President of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board is still around 32,000 euros last year. This was also for some ministers of the government, when they found out yesterday, quite a surprise. As a member of the Board of Directors of the Court of Justice, Mr Božo Predalič agreed to sell Mercator Istrabenz, in accordance with the Order of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared to resign as a member of the Board of Directors of the Court of Justice and considers that there is no reason for him to resign as a member of the Supervisory Board of Istrabenz, d.d. This is customerism, this is corruption, potential and above all a conflict of interest, so I think it is right to discuss this in order to inform individual ministers, individual Members and Members of Parliament about this, whether it is correct that someone who is a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is sitting in the supervisory board of the company, which has provided some 100 million euros in benefits in less than two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mrs. Pecanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u328	Mr President, I would like to ask you to warn Mr Pojbič that he behaves decently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u329	We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour of Members and Members, 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Mag. Andrej Bručan, on the question of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the health impact of concessions. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Lovtijar Bebler's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, to Mrs Darje Lavtizar Bebler's question on the preparation and adoption of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal for amendments to the law and additions to the State Assembly's mandate within the framework of the shorter procedure. The National Assembly held a debate on the draft act at its 29th meeting and decided, on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, to vote on the draft act at its 30th meeting. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for an act would not be inconsistent. In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 24 of the Constitution, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[It's 70 votes.]] [[No one.]] I note that the act has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. I am adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
