ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u1	Good day and good bye! We begin with the continuation of the 30th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting or the work of the meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, mag. Janez Drobnič, Matjaž Han, Alojz Posedel, Jakob Presječnik between 14 and 18 hours and Ambassador Franz Pukšič. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IN DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PARLAMENTAL CONTROL OF INFORMATION AND SECURITY SERVICES. The hearing shall take place on a reduced basis and we are in third reading. We have 2 hours and 35 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. At its June session, the National Assembly suspended the third consideration of the draft law and decided to continue it at the next July session. The first-signed law apologized before explaining the bill. The government has not been reported to the debate, and we have representatives of the Government. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the 11th Amendment Review. Seven. 2007 I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of four or five parliamentary groups, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, NP, SP and SNS, and the amendment of four parliamentary groups, SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Following established practice, I would like to request an application to discuss those Members who wish to discuss it in conjunction with Article 4. Here you go, please. We have four members who have been notified, the first one has the word of his colleague Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, good morning, good morning! When we co-signed or passed this law together, of course, it was an extraordinary event in this mandate. I myself remember, in the speech I gave, how proud we were, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to find a common agreement. But as always we were cautious and, of course, what happened was what we expected - through the back door, on the ground like a snake, an amendment to article 4 of the coalition parties, which, of course, destroys the entire law. It absolutely destroys because I think that the law is called the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services. If this amendment is adopted, it will of course be necessary to amend the title of the law, which will have to be called the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on archival supervision of intelligence and security services. And that's it. That's the whole point. Of course, we had to respond, those who are convinced that we know why this law is about control, not about the archives. We have tried with the amendment that we have tabled, along with other opposition parties, to correct a fundamental error, because I do not know why months work for one marriage and then with one amendment that we have before us, we destroy it. Of course, that's stupid. The law should be in its original form, because it has found consensus, also adopted. If the National Assembly adopts an amendment to Article 4 of the coalition parties, the Slovenian National Party will strongly oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The next on the list of applicants is Member Rudolf Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished present, a lovely greeting! I think that in Parliament, where it is said, 'parlare' means to speak, it must have special effect when we convince each other that the word is valid. I thought that the word would apply as it did in the Rules of Procedure, what the parties did to the effect that it would apply to the law. But later we saw that this was not the case. I don't think it was the parliamentary fault, but it was the responsibility of the supervised services, who tried to make this committee a harmless tiger through a position, and I think it would be good to find some mode of vivenda to build and work on. I think that in such a sensitive body as the Security Intelligence Commission, national interest must first and foremost be above all political interests. In recent times, however, developments have shown exactly the opposite that, if in some way, the public can be best placed, their political interests are on the backs of these services, which provide us with intelligence and which provide us with security. Security is undoubtedly the first priority and must then be seen through these glasses to ensure this safety, but security is not misused. That's what these amendments are talking about. What's the main "catch" of this? The main "catch" of this is that, in fact, through these amendments, witnesses are protected or protected by secret workers or coworkers are protected in this way because it appears through these amendments that the services performing this activity do not have confidence in parliamentary people, because they are afraid that if the overseers see what they can actually control by law, then they would try to do so because of their political influence or, because of the use of political things, to do so by coming to the public and when they come to the public, all their work to ensure security is destroyed. It is true that, at the same time, if this thing comes to the public or not, the amendment also speaks, since it prevents people from the world of politics, that is to say to parliamentarians, access to such data as could be misused or given to the public inadvertently and thereby endangering the lives of these workers, employees and at the same time jeopardising the entire investigation. It seems to me that this problem has been best solved in the basic text, for which all parliamentary parties have also landed. But what happened in the second reading and the amendment that was adopted is a complete, complete lack of confidence in Parliament, it means to do, once again, to highlight this worn-out phase, from the parliamentary committee of a harmless tiger, in order to deal only with past events, which is not good. So far, we have been working on these services, I must say, from year to year, and from year to year, this review has been better and better for me. I don't know why it's supposed to break right now. I, it seems to me that if it were done in such a way as to apply the text of the adopted amendment, then I do not have anything to do on such a committee and I would like to decide that these services should work without this supervisory function, but if they work without this supervisory function, it means that they would approach the standards of totalitarian companies. Look at the amendment, Mr President, I have commented first and second, because they are essentially the same, thank you very much, they differ only in the third paragraph, I think that this third paragraph is good, because it accurately defines what this second paragraph defines. However, in the second paragraph, if we look at the first and the second, they differ only in that the first one says: "In spite of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the authorised group shall not look at that part of the documentation of the supervised service from which the identity of the undercover associate could be seen." I agree with that. The other differs only in this intermediate sentence, when it says "...from which it could be seen", and this is now that sentence which is superfluous: "...that secret workers or co-workers are acting or participating in the process under the provisions," and so on. Now, when the commission gets in control, she'll say, "Please, I'd like to take a look at this and this order that relates to this and this action." Then the Chief of Service would say, "You must not look at this, for it would be clear that there are secret associates involved or involved in the proceedings. We didn't look at it, we shouldn't have looked at it, because it would show that it was working there, that's the argument. But if you tell us, then the sky is visible, but this will be told, and we will know that secret workers and coworkers are involved in this process. So whether or not secret workers or coworkers are working, in my opinion it is superfluous, in mathematics we call this abundant thing, an abundant thing and for us it was also acceptable to the other amendment, of course, if this veered sentence of the proponents correct, if it were changed in the way that I said it would be read as the first one: "No matter what the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the authorised group should not look at that part of the documentation of the supervised service from which the identity of the undercover workers or co-workers could be disclosed." For us this is acceptable, I think that we have solved one part of the matter, but of course it is such that from the previous restriction in previous reading, when only those cases that have been completed have been taken into account, we are now coming to a wider area of review, one from which it could be seen that the co-workers are cooperating or that the identity has been discovered. I would spread these things and it would be acceptable for us if it were written just so that we shouldn't look at that part [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u5	The mistake is in technique, you'll get your word back immediately. Comrade Mogo, please try again. Can you check in with the neighbor? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u6	It means that it would be acceptable for us to accept what is stated in the first paragraph and that the first paragraph of the first amendment would be identical to the first paragraph of the second amendment. You would be protected, we would be protected, in a certain way, and it is also true, because of the danger that this identity exists to the public that it is written in the law. For us, that would be acceptable, and it seems to me that what I suggested would not be a bad solution. However, you must also think about how you will act in such a case, whether the Minister will be the chairman of the supervised service, etc., so that it seems to me that it would be good, very good to proceed with the procedure when this situation comes up in order to have exactly the rules of the game written, such as in the third paragraph of the first amendment. This means that in the event that an authorised person requests a view even after the notice of the chairman, the provisions of Article 27, paragraph 1, etc, are applied to the refusal of the view, the Government may also postpone that part of the dossier for an indefinite period. You have all the legal conditions that when this danger persists, do not allow the parliamentary authorities to look at it, but when it is no longer there, they can perform their duties as they should. Therefore, for parliamentary democracy and if we have confidence in this Parliament, if we have confidence in the work of Members, the first amendment is much more acceptable. He's much clearer, much more determined by these things than this other amendment. Well, respected colleagues from the government, you know, we have met many times on these reviews, and many times it has happened that because of the vague rules of the game that have been set up, it has happened that, instead of looking at certain things, we have dealt only with the complications and have interpreted the law in our own way. In order to dispel any shadow of doubt, it seems to me that if we want to have a quality law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, then this Parliament should certainly open an amendment to Article 1, which sets out clear things that protect secret workers and co-workers and lays down rules of the game. If we could achieve this and if we could come to such a consensus that the first amendment would be confirmed, then I think that we are the mistrust that we have among ourselves, each other, the position - the opposition, the supervised service - the parliamentarians, in order to resolve this in such a way that the work in the future would be as it should be to protect these other people and that we have written such rules of the game from which it can be understood, why certain things do not show up or when it does not appear. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Paul Gantar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! The services we are talking about today have some special powers that other public authorities do not have or have to a substantially smaller extent or otherwise. And it is that they can interfere with the rights and freedoms of individuals, that they can do something that other public authorities cannot and cannot do, that they can monitor conversations, that they can monitor people and so on, that they actually interfere not only with their privacy, even their intimacy. At the same time, they can do this in secret, so that whoever is the object of this doesn't know it, doesn't even know his closest ones to hide these things. And just that, these two elements are elements that clearly trigger the possibility of abuse. These measures, however exceptional and should be used as rarely as possible, may be applied for purposes for which no provision is made, even for political or other purposes. This is why surveillance is very important. What kind of control can this be? Of course, services can also control themselves, and I believe they do it within the scope of their competence. However, this is not the kind of control that could actually reveal the irregularities that the services themselves want to cover. Is this supposed to be government oversight? The government is actually the supreme head of these services. These services are usually in their direct composition, made up of ministries. So, even the Government can monitor this activity, but it will never actually come the day with this and will say, look, we have done wrong this and that, we have committed irregularities, illegality against privacy, privacy, human rights of individuals. You will rarely see such a government. And also this government oversight that we have today, what controls what? He's in control of the previous government. Everything they do is controlled by the previous government in order to show that the former government was working with these services wrong and so on. It may be, perhaps not, but it is clear that government control cannot operate on these services, or that even government control is trying to use its control mechanisms for political purposes, which I think is actually happening today. So, it can be the only serious oversight of parliamentary supervision. Surveillance by Parliament consisting of opposition and position. Only through this control, which must be good and thorough, perhaps, and I hope to prevent more illegality or abuse of such services. It is therefore important that the supervision is correct, good and that parliamentary supervisors have in their hands instruments and legal possibilities to do so. But the key question is not to expose certain things that could endanger, not only integrity, but the whole life of people who secretly operate in these services, such as, say, secret associates. We all agree on that. We have talked about this a lot, and no one, as President of the Commission, would want to be confronted with a document showing a secret collaborator, because if anything happened to this fellow, a shadow could fall on me, or on anyone else on the committee. No one would want to see documents showing such sensitive information as the identity of secret associates. And such an amendment, in fact, was first adopted by the Commission for Parliamentary Oversight at its meeting when it addressed this law in a second reading. And after we have obtained expert opinions after all this process, we have prepared a second amendment for the four opposition parliamentary groups. What happened in the second reading is, in my opinion, a serious problem, and I could even say some kind of scandal, that, in fact, through or with the help of defending the identity of secret associates, we would actually prevent any serious control, because this control would only be limited to completed matters. Later, when we discussed this, among other things, and the third reading, of course, we found that the government coalition had also made some of the corrections that have now been made in this article, and I will talk about this in particular. Our amendments were very well explained by colleagues Moge and Barovic. I would say so; this amendment, which was the result of discussions and coordination, is in a way very much like the original text adopted by the Commission, with two important limitations. The first limit is that it no longer says who decides to prevent access to the document, it is no longer in the text, but it is somehow self-evident that it is the chairman of the supervised service. Secondly, this part of the document does not contain the fact that, of course, it is possible to prevent an insight into the identity of a secret collaborator by also covering up certain data from which that identity would be visible. Of course, it's not in there. But, well, let's say that this is a big problem for experts, let's say that this isn't so crucial, but of course, the key is that we don't know who decides on this ban and, of course, the key is that there is no procedure on what happens then. Of course, it is important, and this must be said, but it is important that this new amendment of the coalition has fallen out of the deadline for the completed case and, of course, has fallen short of the restriction that the work of the supervisory service or of the parliamentary commission is limited to closed matters. This is important. I will, because we will probably say something else, say this: I originally support the amendment that the four opposition groups have tabled in the second reading, repeated it in the third reading, and I plead that, of course, this amendment, which is substantially cleaner, significantly better, would be adopted. I must say for myself that the amendment, as proposed by the coalition now, somehow I do not intend to support; as I have already mentioned; but I would say, as President of the Commission, that I could live with it under certain conditions, if there is a willingness to change even when we find that it is not possible to determine who decides on this prohibition to look into such documents. If this article turns out to be what it is, in fact, not only prevents an insight into the identity of a secret associate, but into supervision, then, of course, I must say that I will immediately propose changes or, if necessary, give up, because I do not intend to play the strawed president and ensure the appearance of democratic parliamentary control. In short, important innovation in the article proposed by the coalition is that so-called final issues are omitted. This amendment does not determine who decides on non-exposure to documents and does not in fact determine what happens if there are disputes and conflicts in this regard. In this respect, it is irrelevant, but it is certainly better than the article adopted in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I am merely informing the government representatives that, although the government has not submitted to the introductory debate on the debate in connection with the amendments, you have 5 minutes at your disposal. So when you want, raise your hand. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Just for a little while. The Government believes that the proposal for a law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, which you are considering today from the perspective of constitutional democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, brings about some qualitative reforms in the field of parliamentary control. Of course, I stress that such parliamentary supervision must be balanced, so that other values or commands of the Constitution are also respected. Above all, the right to life, other fundamental human rights, the independence of the judiciary, the balanced relationship between the executive branch and the legislative branch of power and so forth. With regard to the proposed amendments to Article 4 of the Law, it is intended to assess that, in view of the scope of the provisions or arrangements laid down in the applicable law and the appropriate balance between the branches of authority, the interests of the protection of secret workers and of the secret co-workers and the interests of effective procedures, the most appropriate amendment, of 9. Seven. 2007 which states that, I quote: "Despite the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the authorised group shall not look into that part of the documentation of the supervised service, from which it could be demonstrated that secret workers or co-workers are acting or participating under the provisions of the Defence Act, the Criminal Procedure Act and the Owl Act."or the identity of these secret workers could be disclosed if I briefly explain. That provision cannot and must not be interpreted as having an authorised group of the Supervisory Parliamentary Commission only in the cases already closed. It will have access to all matters of security and intelligence services where human rights and fundamental freedoms can be intervened. Only part of the documentation provided for in these cases, where proceedings are still pending, will open procedures where secret workers or co-workers operate or participate, and this will be temporarily unavailable under the provisions of the law, which are explicitly stated, for permanent operations or cooperation. We need to be very careful. In view of the protection of human life, as one of the highest and most important values in our Constitution or in Article 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the identity of secret workers and secret associates will be permanently protected as a secret and thus not and must not be disclosed to the authorised group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you, too. But to my word I invite the Ambassador Dusan Kumra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Now I have a completely different point of view for my debate when I listened to a representative of the Government, namely, if we accepted this interpretation, which is based on the work and functioning of the Government and government-authorised groups, which are now monitoring or reviewing the work of intelligence and security services, then it is bad for both the security of citizens and for the security of the state. I will therefore take the stage that this is not at all a question of the judicial, legal interpretation of the individual articles in this law, including those amendments, but a grave political intervention in the relationship between the executive branch and the law, and I reiterate that what the President of the Commission said earlier, human freedoms are protected by the Constitution and the laws. At the same time, at least with some, and with two laws explicitly allowed in these freedoms, this is, in particular, a reminder of the Law on Owl and I am alerting to the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Therefore, this supervision and parliamentary supervision is extremely important, there are many other controls, not only government supervision, because it is a government service, for example, Owa is not a government service, it is not established under the Government Act, if it defines other services, it is established by the Owl Act and is a special, independent government service and therefore there is no control and interference with this agency and this service in the same way as all other government services. That is why I think that with the amendment we adopted earlier, which was proposed by a position that has succumbed to the temptation of the services that do this because of their wishes and with the support of the Government, we have caused what I said before - a grave intervention in the control of these services. And this debate and the starting points are, in my opinion, as I said before. Here in this House there is a battle between the position and the opposition, which is totally wrong with this topic that we are discussing today. There should be a debate, a battle, a fight or I do not know what is between Parliament, a legislative branch of power and an executive branch of power. Today, however, there is a position in the role of extended deadlines for the wishes of these intelligence and security services and, of course, the executive branches of the authorities. Therefore, I must say first, even now that I have listened to the Secretary of State, that all those who speak and claim that this amendment of the law gives opportunities for even more comprehensive parliamentary control over intelligence services, you can tell these stories to your grandchildren or if you still have your children who like fairy tales. For this work of ours will have the opposite effect if we accept the amendment as it is now written. If we accept the amendment of positions widely, we open the door to the abuse of intelligence and security services every time the executive branch. Make this one red, green, yellow, black, whatever. So I'm going to repeat what I said at the previous reading. Instead of building on the experience we have so far, including the current, last three, four months, what we are all talking about and the facts, we are turning parliamentary oversight into a harmless tiger ourselves. And that's why the question is seriously raised, as my colleague Moge said, is such supervision, parliamentary control even meaningful? Does it even make sense to take over as a Member who happens to be sitting on this parliamentary supervisory committee, responsible for the functioning of these services, whether it is intelligence or security. I must say that the coalition and the government are already overly exaggerated by the enforcement of certain elements of the police state. Let me tell you three: yesterday you confirmed that you will be storing all my and your phone records for 24 months. A year ago, in this same law, you agreed that Sova could listen to all your phone calls, open letters, and use other special measures. I'm talking about the position, I'm not talking about the opposition, the opposition objected. And today, by restricting parliamentary control of intelligence and security services to the widest possible extent, we are opening the door to the political abuses of these same services. That is why I must say that it is already terrible, how much talk is being said and convincing us of what we can and should not do as parliamentarians through this parliamentary supervisory committee. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to see, from last November 14th, that the supervisors of the government have no legal basis for the same intelligence and security services as they wish. We, as the legislative supervisory body, are restricting matters by law. This, after Dr. Dimitri Ruple, is the wrong world. Therefore, parliamentary supervision has its logic and purpose only when it is prevented - and now in some way, I am dealing with the Secretary of State - an intervention into human rights, not when this intervention has already been done, and finally finds that human rights have been violated. Such control, in my opinion, makes no sense. In short, let me finish my opinion. I think it's right to protect secret associates and employees. Far from agreeing and absolutely not agreeing to move forward and restrict parliamentary control over these services.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I'm opening a loop, please. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will focus mainly on the amendments, on the new amendment. Of course, I will support the amendment we tabled ourselves. As already discussed by my colleague Moge, I would also be prepared to support the model amendment adopted on the home working body. Progress towards this amendment, the new amendment tabled by the coalition, is indeed a fact stated by colleague Gantar that there is no limit to matters that have already been completed. It's deleted in this. However, I believe that the proposed amendment represents a step back from the amendment proposed on the home working body. I will also try to explain this in practical terms so that we can understand what this is all about. In fact, the amendment is now literally written in such a way as to say that it is not possible to look at the part of the documentation from which it can be seen that secret workers or coworkers are involved in the process. We've always said that we don't want to enter the identity of secret associates. See, there is no limit under current legislation that the Commission would not even claim the identity of secret co-workers, but because we all know; also from global cases; how sensitive this is, we finally agreed that the Commission would not look into the identity of secret co-workers. Because of me, it could also be called "I.D.'s," which is where we have to separate some notions. Look, when the commission comes in for a review, it needs some documentation. When it comes to a document involving secret workers or coworkers; under our legislation now they are called'secret workers', although I think it is more meaningful to use'secret workers' and they also need it around the world; the competent service of this document is able to do so and the cases were when we were in control that they gave it. Of course, the part that revealed identity was usually covered up, but to understand what identity is? The identity of the undercover associate is his name and last name and all the information that we have people as such, that's his identity. Secret associates in documents do not perform with identity, they should also be known, but perform with a certain identification, alias and so on. These are stories that they know all over the world, and that doesn't really have to be explained. But I say that I would also agree to write that there can be no insight into either identity or identification, that there would be no possible speculation: But what have we now written? Now, however, we have written that the supervised commission must not look at the documentation or part of the documentation at all. Look, if we accept this, for the first time - we're going to have a vague dictatorship, for the second time - I'm sure we'll have a worse dictatorship than we've had before and there could be huge problems at all. The head of the supervised service will say, and there we have some of the mentioned secret workers and associates and the question is what this part of the documentation is now, is it just that document that directly mentions it or is it a package of documents relating to that document or the whole matter? What am I trying to say? The supervised services will be able to say under the dictatorship, which is now written down that entire documentation packages will not give the Commission an insight. What we are doing with this is important for the opposition and the position, after all, the members of this commission are also from a position they probably want, no matter who is ever in a position to know what is happening in these services, and it would be right, because in this case Parliament is in the public interest that services are under the control of non-entry into the field of human rights and no one will be able to look at a single set of matters there at all. With such a dictatorship, we will take a decisive, decisive step back in parliamentary control. This is the legal limitation of quality parliamentary supervision for me, and nothing else can be called otherwise. I suggest - you may even have meant to write something positive, but you wrote that this is a classic restriction on parliamentary supervision - I suggest you think about it. But if what is now proposed is deleted, i.e. if I read the whole amendment, irrespective of the provisions of the preceding paragraph: "The authorised group must not look into that part of the documentation of the supervised service under the provisions of these and these laws, from which an identity could be disclosed if you would also like to identify these secret collaborators," such an amendment would be acceptable. Or an amendment that has already been adopted by the mother's working body, but without the last sentence, that the committee limits only to the things already completed. This would ensure that neither the identity nor the identification of the secret co-workers would be disclosed and that they could hide from the commission under the pretext that [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] or for workers, the whole file and the Commission simply becomes disabled in this area. [[..]] And these documents are, as we know, quite a lot. So, this amendment, as you wrote, whether for a good purpose or not, is a big step in parliamentary supervision. That's obvious from space.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to talk about the broader context of the amendment of this law. The first thing that applies somehow to the archives where these things will be dealt with is to say that the proposer of this change is not here. This is a special and special kind of ignorance. With whom can we then discuss possible solutions if the proposer is not here. I would not specifically refer here to who wrote this text to the applicant. To date, the basic law governing parliamentary control was only written by parliamentarians. That's another thing to say. Now that's changing. The texts of solutions that are controversial dictate the services that need to be controlled. This is not the wrong world, but it is the world where we see the stop, I will say, the parliament is the prisoner of the one who should really control it in this case. And that's the key to the problem. Secret services, much of which has been discussed, work in an area that can be disputed in itself. That these things are not too controversial to maintain their legitimacy requires an appropriate legal framework and, above all, effective parliamentary supervision is needed. Effective parliamentary supervision is at the moment and with these solutions under question. If effective parliamentary supervision is under question, then the basic question that is being asked is whether or not the possible abuse of the service is possible, of course the abuse of the service is always possible if there is no control, the more the question that is being asked is whether, when we are eliminating effective controls, we are not in fact contributing to the dismantling of these services. If the services do not have control, they lose their legitimacy, if they do not have legitimacy, they are on their way to dismantling and this is happening here today. That's something to think about. If this is taken against Parliament's will and, above all, against the will of the opposition, which, yesterday, somehow managed to employ the majority in these supervisory bodies, today we will take away the opportunity to effectively enforce this majority, then we have done that, basically, we have not only prevented the opposition from controlling something, we are essentially challenging the legitimacy of these services, we are taking it. And then we can call them, I'll say, jobs that we compare to the old system and so on. This is the key to the problem, the key to the problem, as I see it, in a broader context, and this is not just happening in this area. This authority is hard to bear any control. We're putting the reins on the media, where it's some kind of broader democratic control. He's having a hard time handling a stand-alone Court of Auditors. It cannot tolerate at all, for example, other such institutions, which it controls in an open manner, and this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Practically, they are essentially afraid of any kind of democratic control and if these laws are passed against the will of the opposition and if the opposition does not participate in these mechanisms [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The next debater is Kola Školč, thank you very much for your discussion. [[...]] You have applied for 15 minutes, 15 minutes, the Liberal Democracy Club has also spent. Thank you very much. The following debater is colleague Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much. If it were possible, I'd give my colleague Skull 30 seconds to finish the thought, but it's probably not possible. I'd say first of all, the proponent is here, there's not a mouth of proponents or the hands of the proponent, but is the real proponent of the government we can provide the opportunity to speak?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u19	You know, sometimes it's very difficult in this National Assembly. But I beg of you, only colleague Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We'll work together to work this out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u22	In short, the proposer is here, this is the Government, but it is true that there is no hand that has written the proposal to the proposer before us. The key question, of course, came to me in a discussion that I thought was essentially over, but it is not, but, of course, the Secretary of State, Mr Marolt, pointed out: What do we mean by looking at that part of the documentation? [[..]] [[Phone ringing in the hall.]] Mr President, would you turn off one cell phone together, or would this be done differently? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u23	And I'm not gonna turn off the cell phones. I believe that each of the Members is so correct that he will turn off his phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In short, what we mean by saying that no access is allowed to the part of the documentation that shows the identity of the secret collaborators. If they think it's the whole file, then I understand. A record of a matter in which there is also a secret coworker, if it is a complete file, of course we are not thinking correctly or thinking differently. Because in this case, of course, perversion will happen. So that we can get to the supervised service and we'll say we want to see these files, and they'll say you can't do that because there's a secret associate in there. How do we know it is? They can either make it up or lie to each other if you want there to be a secret associate inside so they don't show it to us. And more than that. The Commission can never go past the fact that it does not know that it is a secret collaborator in a file. By telling us in this file that we're not going to show you, he's a secret associate, and we already know he is. Thus, the fact that the Commission is aware that there are investigative matters in which there is a secret collaborator cannot escape this story, in any case. This article, in all respects or in the amendment that we have, or in the amendment that the current coalition has, that part of the documentation must be read only and exclusively as part of the file that would reveal the identity, identification or anything about a secret associate. If, of course, there is a fig in the pocket and they think that because of a secret collaborator they will not show us the whole file, then of course this is a serious limitation on parliamentary control and we accept any amendment. And that is why, of course, I am talking about the fact that this is a very serious matter and that it is indeed up to who will rule in this country, not the LDS, not the SDS, not the SD or anyone else, but the secret services. And that is why I am very serious and very carefully telling you that we need to explain clearly what looking into that part of the documentation means. And this is a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening procedure, please. We've got five advertised debaters, and the government will whenever it wants to. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to tell us, and especially those who are accompanying Parliament's work through the media that they are able to do so, in the simplest way, how pointless the amendment to Article 4 is, because we are speaking very convolutedly. However, the simple story is this: The amendment states: "No matter what the provisions of the preceding paragraph, an authorised group shall not look into that part of the documentation of the supervised service, from which it may be evident that secret workers or co-workers are involved in the proceedings." Simple question: Who works and participates in security and intelligence services? Secret workers and coworkers, and no one else. Maybe 5% of people are public. I can't imagine one of Sorge's top secret agents coming to Japan and introducing myself, "I'm Sorge, the secret agent of the Russian Intelligence Service, and I'm going to supervise you." So this amendment essentially excludes the supervisory service. Therefore, if the supervisory service cannot look at documents showing that secret workers are involved in the process, it means that this supervisory authority must not look at the documents at all, because only secret workers and co-workers are in these documents, no one else. So if you can't look at documents that show that they're secret workers and coworkers, you can't look at anything. And then let's write a law that shuts down the security-intelligence service and the dot. I mean, my heart only hurts because you think we're so stupid. I don't think I should look into what is essentially a hundred percent, secret agents are, these are the hidden names of co-workers and co-workers and workers and security intelligence workers. They're 100 percent. And if I can't look where they're from, then I can't look at anything! Of course we can't accept this, this is nonsense, this is negation of negation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Mir Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I am listening here today, a lot of words about how the commission will carry out a single, archival oversight, we have also heard of a toothless tiger, and on the other hand, a colleague of Pavel Gantar, who said that he could live with our amendment. According to my information, this amendment we tabled was also coordinated by the Social Democrats, and also Mr Paula Gantar was at this coordination. You'll fix me if that's not true. However, there is something to be said in all of this. The amendment of this law, which we have here today at third reading, is expanding the area of parliamentary control. A new area is included, this is the area of control over the secret operation of the police and the secret operation of intelligence services. And this is for the first time at this legal level, this type of control and after this salary is nevertheless necessary to consider this to be a great advance. Of course, certain restrictions are needed in this monitoring and it is necessary to ensure that parliamentarians or the legislative branch of authorities can verify the constitutionality and legality of secret measures, but that the effectiveness of police or intelligence services is not compromised. I'm sure we'll all agree on that. And a group of experts who have drawn up an expert opinion for our committee have prepared two options on what we are talking about today. The first option was not to include a secret action and cooperation measure in any of the control measures. So our commission in this area is not supposed to exercise control. However, there is another possibility, and this is what we are discussing today, that secret action measures are fully included in the supervised actions of the Security Services Supervisory Commission, and we have also done so with the amendments, and we continue to do so with this amendment, which has also been tabled today. This in some way means limiting the view of the dossier to that part which would allow the identification of a secret collaborator. However, if the opposition amendment were adopted, we could quickly find ourselves on a rather thin flight. If parliamentarians had access to all the data, to all the pending cases, there could be a great risk of disclosure of secret workers or secret associates, as other data on a particular file could indirectly be found or some way to identify who is a secret worker or a secret worker. And this is a danger for those who participate in this project. As you know, secret workers or secret associates receive secret services or police data that are extremely difficult to deal with. These are data which are relevant for the constitutional regulation of the State and for the security of the State. The country still exists, even though Marxists predicted its demise decades ago. The security of the country requires security services, which some of us want to dismantle today. It's just, by the way. And secondly, remember how they were years ago, I think there were many judgments falling there around 2002, in Slovenia due to the so-called "file infection", "judgments infection" and so on. This has been a real hit for some time, some phenomenon in Slovenia, and only by appearing in some criminal record official police notes. Therefore, it is necessary to be extremely careful not to take the case before a court because when it was found that the parliamentary authorities had access to this file, the accused was informed of all the proceedings there only at the end of the forecasting procedure. Of course, this does not change my personal belief that in Slovenia today criminals have more rights than victims. Of course, it's another story. On the other hand, we insist that the rights which the accused has in some cases are respected, and on the other hand the interests of the State must be taken into account, and this is an effective prosecution of crimes. And I think that's what makes this amendment possible. This is that it cannot come to the disclosure of a secret collaborator and also makes it possible for the police and secret services to work effectively. Perhaps I would point out this for example, which has been somewhat more famous lately - the work has recently written about it - which proves how secret services are constantly on thin ice. In 2005, a decision was taken by the Constitutional Court, which deals with secret cooperation or a secret act between the Sovo and the Ministry of the Interior. This secret act was signed on 9 September 1993 and the agreement stipulated that the Sova Intelligence Service also exercised telecommunications control for the purposes of the criminal police or the Ministry of the Interior. Owl independently recorded for the police, and the Constitutional Court found that this was an intervention in human rights and the work had already reported that a court decision had fallen on this basis. The secret agreement was in force for about 3 years, from 11 April 1993 to 1997. On this basis, we may wonder whether there was another secret agreement between the Owl and the Ministry or anyone else in the country at that time. That is why it is so important that we do not make any more similar mistakes in this House so that we do not meet again with the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Member Paula Gantar accepted the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look, what was said, I'd say the following. I, as chairman of the Commission, have given the initiative to all leaders of the groups of Members to agree before the third reading or to agree on what could replace the unfortunate adoption of the second reading amendment. Indeed, we have found ourselves, at least three opposition representatives, we have made it clear that the term "conclusion" does not apply to us in any respect. We talked very much about certain things, and the fact is that, at least as far as I'm concerned, I won't speak on behalf of others, that after he said himself, when the term "closed matters" was out, I said that with such an amendment, the greatest mistake of the previous amendment was corrected and that I imagined that I could live, but with a certain discomfort and the fact that it was not said in this amendment, who decided to do so. Now, after the Secretary of State, there has been a new problem, namely with all the amendments and ours and theirs. And that's that part of the documentation, if they understand that this file is complete, then we don't know how to live with any amendments, either way. And the problem is -- and I've told you before why I won't explain for too long. And secondly: the infection, Mr Friday, is clearly that there is no infection, whether it is a view of the documentation, whether the employee or not, done by the person who can, by law, carry out it in a prescribed manner, is said to be - parliamentary supervision. Would the documentation not have been infected without colleagues whom we would have looked at also be infected in your opinion and in the opinion of the Government, but the Government has quickly silenced this argument because it knows that it is not real. As for the opinion of the expert service of the three experts - indeed, there are two options: One to eliminate everything or to arrange it. But experts themselves have pointed out that this and have given a preference or advantage to arrange it in the manner we have arranged it in the amendment of the opposition parliamentary groups. This story about the decommissioning of the country, I'd say, if the Marxists were really trying to disintegrate the country, and you're going to securely dismantle it in the SDS, its legal nature or the state as a legal institution [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Your time for replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u32	adopted such a document. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u33	It's expired. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u34	Thank you so much for warning me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u35	I call on Ambassador Dusan Kumra to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I will submit once again, and all this debate thus far confirms to me - once again, those who speak and claim that by this we are expanding parliamentary control, you are deceiving yourself, you are looking at the ground, you are not seeing what is in front of you. And with this new law we have now opened a new chapter so that we can now also control the secret operation of these services that we previously couldn't - I mean, this is, this is now attracted to hair. I'm asking, what does Owl do? Or with any other economic activity? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Or with economic activity as well? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, well, he's also into economic activity. And so far we have monitored this economic activity, and from now on we will monitor its activities related to the clandestine operation and security of citizens in this country. Secondly, please, 7, 9 parliamentarians who sit on the committee to oversee these secret and intelligence and security services is that pebble can or that niche where disclosure can occur, compromise. Everyone else in this country who also controls these intelligence and security services is not this channel where they can see these things. We're talking about ourselves and we're talking about it in Parliament! We don't trust ourselves, but we trust everyone else. And the latest events, I will repeat again, since last November 14th at the head of events in the last month and a half, at the head of events in the last 14 days, prove that they have a variety of documents and the secrets you are talking about, people who, in my opinion, have no legal authority to do so. [[..]] And they reveal the identities of secrecy and so on, that I don't list these things anymore. To finish because someone already mentioned it. If we had SDV, the State Security Service, many years ago, we are now reinstituting SVV, the government security service. And this, please, parliamentary control with such a concept, with such a strategy, cannot have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you. I would like to invite Member Mirani to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I'd like to say that I'm not in the circle of those narrow-minded people who would know more about this issue. No, I'm not saying this with any ill will or pride. I have never had the opportunity to do this, but I am getting to know some of the details in these debates, and I do not know many at this time. And please -- that's why this was my focus, because I simply believe that it's a lot of things that if you don't cooperate with them, you don't know them and you don't know them. And that's right. Second. I had to take part because we had to take part in a college, whether it was wise or not, when we agreed on working bodies, and talked about the need to regulate, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, the powers of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services in the legislative function. You know well that you have been on the Commission, that the Commission is independent of this and before we even started discussing the legislative function of the Commission at all, considered that, as a result of the Constitutional Court's decision and the amended provisions of the Police Act and the new provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, a clear text of the Law on the Control of Security and Intelligence Services should also be regulated, as the text would otherwise be inconsistent and would raise doubts. And I was aware that the basis for this was prepared by a special group of experts on the committee, and this document was signed by Prof. Dr. Igor Kavčič, Prof. Dr. Rajko Pirnat and Professor Dr. Anton Dvorjak, and this was the basis for the work. And I must say that my first start was naively that this part of the content was agreed, clear, indisputable, with experts, with the signed law that Mr Terchoon first introduced, according to my first or expected information, harmonised in the commission - I later found that in part yes, not even in the details - and that we only have to add to this the question of legislative powers. And once we have removed the legislative powers and brought the law into line, the whole thing will be resolved. And very soon it turned out that I was very naive and that it wasn't true. Because it is a coalition, four coalition groups wanted to change the content of the already introduced law. And I was the one who read and warned, also warned the other colleagues in the coalition and in the opposition, let's see what it is. And for the first time, Mr Tanko, who coordinated this, accepted our warning, later from other opposition parties, that the amended content is not appropriate and that it is not possible to change the powers of control, because if the powers of control are changing, then this is not in line with the original arrangements. But from here on out, big stories have started. And now that I have not forgotten, then I, Mr Friday, have participated once again last Friday. I hope it's a misunderstanding, not a conscious deception. In fact, I hear many times that deals are interpreted differently than they really are. We sat there for an hour or an hour and a half with a few representatives of the government and tried to explain things to each other that were not all the same. And that's where we accepted the fact, at least I told him publicly that no one has or that I have no interest in coming to the public, because only this and above all that has been talked about, the names and surnames of the persons, the identity of those secret workers and co-workers who are helping the Ministry of the Interior and the police with special methods and means to detect certain crimes. And we all said, no one has that interest, and that was the common ground. This is all we talked about in this interview, either in my memory or in my understanding, mainly or exclusively only about the problems of the police, but not about the other two services, which are also under the supervision of our commission, that is, Owl and military intelligence services. And that was the debate, and we were looking for some solutions. And when they were to the end, I was only present, because the other colleagues had left for the sake of duty before, looking for a solution, I specifically said: "I cannot sign this, do not consider it my consent, but consider it an understanding or a recording of that text as we spoke about it there. We'll see what happens in the end." That's why, Mr. Friday, there was no agreement, there was no agreement. The one who told you this - whether you misunderstood him or misinformed you. But it is true that we have tried to design some solutions. Now, about these solutions, there's only one more thing. For me, responsible solutions could only be found in the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services that know the problem, in agreement between the coalition and the opposition, and in the clear cooperation of the three, or anyone else, the experts who wrote the texts to say so. Everything else is like that. And now I'm gonna be like, I'd say, unconscioned to say where I see the problem. To interfere with powers, tasks, understandings, and the way the three services are controlled is not the same, at least that's how I understand. However, it is not all the same because not everyone in the police is a secret worker and a coworker, but as a rule it is in the Soviet Union and if we now use the term, we can indeed use a colleague Kumer and someone else who says the text is written in such a way that there will be no control over the work or any service that has secret workers and associates, because it is the characteristic of this service. Third - what is part of the documentation? They tried to explain to me what was supposed to happen in that interview. Maybe that's true, but this isn't written anywhere in my marriage. And the interpretation of what is part of the documentation that the Commission cannot look at is completely unclear. As long as it is not clear, it may be highly doubtful that this part of the documentation will be as large, but it will not be allowed to look at anything, whether it will be really pure, purely narrow, as it has been interpreted. And finally, what's the end of the matter. That's where we discussed it, and we got some opinions, but not definitive. And colleagues and colleagues, as long as there are so many things unclear about such sensitive topics that we can also deal with in a well-intentioned way, there are so many things that I fear will happen to what we are witnessing today: that important people who are supposed to know something interpret the law in force in a different way, which is probably bad, and I don't want to say anything in advance, who is right. We've only got the law - how much? 10 years and after 10 years, we now find that we didn't know how to write it, nor really understand it, nor really interpret it. Please, let us not let this happen to us with changes and additions now at this point, because then we will only have double damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite Ambassador Davorin Terchón. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much. So, first of all, I share the opinion of my colleague Potræ that on the Commission, I think, we would find the appropriate text, at least as far as I have had the practice so far, the functioning of this commission, where there were no such unnecessary complications, perhaps because the public was not so present. On the other hand, it's true that I was the first to file a marriage. This law had only one content relating to the monitoring of electronic communications, where we found that one measure is not among the controlled measures but is very common. I then withdrew, after a great deal of consensus had been reached and this subject was introduced into this law and is also within these changes. It was even extended to covert action and cooperation, which I perceived as a problem, but I did not include what was good. And it is also true, as colleague Friday said, that the intention of these changes was also to regulate this area after the repeal of the Law on Police and the introduction of this content into the Law on Criminal Procedure. But now it's obvious from that big deal, everyone's forgotten a little bit about the deal, and we're where we are. But I say that things need to be understood as they are written, and written so that we can understand what we are going to accomplish with this. As it is now written, they are badly written down and there will be indisputable major problems, especially the part of this documentation that is stirring the spirits, how it is written. Why do I say it's one step back? colleague Friday, did you correctly say that it is the intention, that also secret activity and cooperation be included in - but who is working operationally on secret operation and cooperation? Secret workers and coworkers! If we don't get to them, we don't even get to covert action and cooperation, and we haven't done anything at all. More, look, some things need to be understood. We're not just talking about the paperwork. We're talking about identity, identification, document and documentation. Some of us know what identity is, or all of us, we have said that there is no dispute that we do not eliminate. The identification, as recorded in the first reading, can also be excluded. We could even write that document -- it doesn't have the right to look at the document, and we even wrote "documentation". To illustrate, it is possible already in the document that there are two measures combined. Like, covert action and wiretaps. Let's say it's an operational tracking and eavesdropper. We don't need a covert associate to eavesdrop. We need a covert co-worker to track him down. If we hide the whole document, not to mention the paperwork, we don't see anything. We even wrote the paperwork. So, what are we trying to hide? We want to hide the name and surname, that's an identity that's not in the document, but to avoid speculation, we also want to hide the alias if some people already know each other too much, so we hide the identification if we define it that way. And that's it! That's what we wanted to achieve. That's what we wanted to write down. However, we have written that we can now hide entire parts of the documentation. These parts can be wide, narrow, and so on. In fact, we can also resort to restricting control in measures legally determined to control ourselves. We will hide the documentation, where there is also wiretaps, wiretaps will not be possible to watch, regardless of whether this is not a secret operation, nor secret workers, nor secret associates. Such a diction is impossible. It is possible, anything is possible, it can also be accepted, with good intentions, but it will cause us great problems, whoever is in opposition or position. So I really suggest - I see that the government representatives write something - that we find the right dictatorship. I have already suggested that it is possible to reformulate the amendment that has already been adopted in the second reading. It is possible that this amendment, which has been tabled, can be slightly repaired in order to achieve what we wanted to achieve. As for the second reading, let me tell you how this case went down. The opposition was mainly disturbed by the fact that only completed matters were being examined. This is what the coalition listened to in this amendment. The coalition was disturbed by who would dictate. It is said that the coalition has now listened to the part of the opposition, what it itself has pointed out to be a problem, who will determine whether or not it will be the one who will be competent to restrict this control, and you have not said. You've left some interpretations for the future. That's possible, too, I think he's the head of the department, but in the last few complications we've seen, the head of the department has claimed that there was no access to the agency network, and that the government has also said that it doesn't want to look into the agency network, which means that there's nothing the minister can do about it, because the one who's assigning the matter needs to know. So we can let this go, but we can't let things go like this because it's too wide. And it goes, if it remains so, in fact, to restrict parliamentary control, not only in the work of undercover and secret cooperation, which has not been regulated now, although - I have to say that in practice it has also been many times so that it has not been completely limited, it was a practice that has been inherited from before, and I think it was right. However, we all made sure that we did not reveal any secret associates, nor did we want to see them. But if we accept this, there is a great danger that the restriction of those measures will also be because the documents are generic and include various measures, including those measures that are legally possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We'll reopen the application circuit. Here you go, please. We have two reported discussers. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much. When I listen to this debate, of course I very much agree that this is a sensitive subject, and I also agree that there is still ambiguity in the interpretation of the current law, and that this working group, which was composed of three renowned lawyers who have insight into this subject, which has long experience in life, also excellent lawyers, cannot actually come up with completely exact solutions and proposals. We are all aware that this is a very sensitive field and that what we are dealing with today is a permanent conflict between two values. One value is to enable services and state-owned operations to do the best they can to prosecute the worst crimes, such as economic crime, crime of white collars, terrorism, drugs and so on, where these secret methods are usually used, secret measures. Another value that is still above these values for me and will be eternally respected in fact by human rights, protected and limited only in the part where this is absolutely necessary and where they are limited throughout the world, and the value that this legitimate desire and the desire of the country that we all recognise is not abused, say, for political purposes. And as a result, all those coalition Members, we are working hard to find such a solution, that this conflict between ideal and reality will lead to the possibility of living with it and that there will be no abuse of the use of dictatorships. And I'm sure there's been some progress. I agree with my colleague Gantar, too, that we are somewhere in a dictatorship that can be lived with; with which I can live and join his opinion, if practice shows that it is going in the wrong direction to abuse it, I too am among the signatories of the amendment - immediately. Because I don't see it coming to me, either, so that it would apply to the whole file and forever. For this reason, of course, I do not agree, I cannot agree with some opinions that we are opening the door to political abuse wide, as my colleague Kumer said. When I am back on this committee for a while, which will end with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, I see that I am a significantly worse person to know the internal functioning of the services than a colleague. I don't have that kind of experience. And, of course, maybe a colleague knows his legacy when these jobs were really being abused. Maybe he does. I hope that we have many mechanisms and protections so that this can no longer be done. However, I have always advocated and today advocated, and as President of the Commission in the past, that there is a systematic doubt as to the legality and regularity of the work of the secret services as a method of work of the supervisory commissions. Because we can't always make sure that someone doesn't get itchy toes and get big powers, big opportunities, and abuse it. That is why we are working so intensively, and I think that today's debate is good to point out that it also shows that there has been strong progress, that we are all aware that, as the Constitutional Court once said, let's say, judicial control alone is not sufficient, that parliamentary supervision must exist and there must be intensive parliamentary supervision. And, of course, that's why I have to correct or object to the warning that ran from my colleague back there, who said, "The changemaker is not here today," which is true that he's not here because he's detained. But everything was given in this way - and that means something. This means something, some mystery, someone, a notification of a bad purpose was attributed to this, not even a conspiracy: someone wrote to him, but now he doesn't hope to imagine it. It's not like that. The leaders of the parliamentary groups were coordinating, everyone had this understanding, or they were aware that we were looking for solutions in a delicate case where the conflict was inside, and because this warning today by one of the signatories that the proposaler was not here, it seems incorrect to me in this sense. But nobody notices that there hasn't been a man here for a month who has most likely exposed the abuse of intelligence services - Mr. Rope! Where Mr Pahor and Mr Rob obviously agreed to pursue an affair, they will then hide it in quarantine. I fear that even in the budget, even though he is a first-class expert on this, he will not be today - Mr Rope. He's not here! But he might be the one to say the most about the abuse of secret services in the past, for he was evidently talking about abuse if there was anything. Now no one knows anything. And I hope that as long as he hides himself or hides him from the Members, from the public, so long will the suspicion of what has been done in the past in Owl increase. Where do you have Mr. Robb? Let's, uh, say [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] And once again, he says when I'm identifying myself for this intense debate. [[...]] It is not a dilemma for me that the value of protecting human rights and preventing the political abuse of services is higher than the legitimate value and what we have always forced and spoken to services; why you are ineffective. The Crime Service has to say that they have a problem because some things are compromising them. And we understand that, too. But only if this day were an intervention in the field of human rights or abuses would occur, then I prefer to see the situation as it has been under the rule of the LDS and the Social Democrats. And keep the criminals free, these economic criminals. So far, in 12 years, no one has been imprisoned, no convicted, only if we are now in such a position to abuse it, then I am in favour of that higher value. However, I associate myself with the view that the text is now such - and there is still something that can be improved - that will be able to live with and that will also allow control, and if the Commission finds that anyone in the service is trying to do so, on the basis of such a dictatorship, it is necessary to avoid all control and then it needs to be changed in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. My colleague Kumer signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u44	Yes, Comrade Jerovšek, you have a lot of imagination, but you're even more resourceful to know what you don't care about - and that's my identity past. And your ten times I repeat, your intelligence of things [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The information you spoke about today is misinformed and gives false information. [[...]] I've already made this public, and I've shown it, and I've shown it once again with two colleagues. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u45	Comrade Kumer, your time or time of your delegation has expired. But to my word, the replica on the replica is not possible, Comrade Jerovšek. [[...]] But to my word I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. At first, I'd say it's probably time for someone to apologize to someone. But we're going to the facts. I would say that what we have achieved and this dictatorship - certainly is progress. And I'm going to use the words I've heard today, "with such a dictatorship I could live on." But I am also joining this -- and this is true for all cases, not just for this -- that if it were to prove that it would be any brake moment or anything, it could change quickly. I wouldn't go into some general theory about what we're talking about. Perhaps just two words that this is a sensitive subject and that in such a case it is probably not good to "break up like an elephant in a porcelain shop" because I don't read it to anyone either. The fact is, in particular in this area, no law can prescribe an exact 100 percent of everything, assuming that there would be no abuse. There is no such thing as a hundred percent law that would seal me out not to use that German term that we use very much and that might say more. However, I certainly have a lot of doubts about the arguments that some of you are making against the text of this amendment. Let's do this differently. If what you say is true, that control will now be limited and of course this is bad, that it should not happen, then you would recall the current situation that is on this side, that if we go into restraint now, more liberally - and I do not think of any political interpretation here, it would be more free - that it would be possible to control more, to control more effectively, to control more effectively, then I simply do not understand how it could have happened, that in the current parliamentary scrutiny, which was possible a little wider, it was impossible to determine what it was, say, said or made public, our fellow Member of Parliament, SD Mr Rob. If this were better solved now, or better solved, or anyhow, then such things could not have been achieved that he has declared one thing for which, I stress, so far, no documents have been found to be true. There's something wrong here. So far, we have found that this law, which is now in force, even in the light of the foregoing, is such that it needs to be amended. But in what direction? We're the ones who designed the solution. And I still say that this is not ideal, because there are no ideal solutions, but it is better, good, even suitable in the light of the experience we have. It is said that changes are certainly necessary and are welcome. We heard a question from one of our colleagues here earlier, but what was Owl doing and doing. Or with economic activity as well? Unfortunately, the events showed that she was also engaged in economic activity because she set up a company for her former co-worker who did not have the appropriate education and somehow put it on a shoe, and they set up a company with funds, I don't know if it was from a black fund, one that wasn't - not secret, black, that's something else - that she could go on. Now I don't know if he's still doing what he used to do or something like that, it doesn't matter now. So, Owl is also dealing with something else that we shouldn't be dealing with. These are the facts. On the other hand, it must be found that our fellow Member, now an SD Member, has remembered something that some others deny. What he has stated - and this is the essence now - what they have declared is certainly illegal, has no cover anywhere; what he has said. That source of his or his intelligence source is called the director of this facility, and he says he acted in accordance. I'm not going to let anyone know who I believe, that's irrelevant. In general, they put themselves in an entirely opposite position. What one claims is inconsistent with all legislation and with all sound logic. What others claim to have done in harmony is another contrast. That is probably what we, and the other authorities in the country, will have to find out what is now re: either one is lying or the other has exceeded all powers when he was in the highest and most responsible place. In addition, it was found that this service was likely to have been bugged by a cross between 1999 and 2005. Who "went" in there was "hit" and how much worse. It will also probably be necessary to find out and therefore it is also necessary to prepare such a content, such legislation, which will be such if it happens - but it shows here almost certainly that it is - to prevent this. In any case, legislation will also have to be followed if there is a legal loophole to complement it. I stress once again that I think that this dictatorship, which is now, is better, is progress, with such "could live" as the fellow Member said. However, I would point out once again, but if anyone thinks that we will be able to make such a law that will prevent 100% abuse, he will be disappointed. But most of it wouldn't have happened. I'd like to remind you of one more thing. It is often said that in such sensitive matters, as well as in others, we need to listen to experts. Here comes the basic problem - to conclude - which experts, whether legal or those who are operatives, or those who said that they were aware of it, at all, is "no number", and others who say they were working legally, but in fact it was a big matter or a source of information or anyone. We need to unify here, which experts. I think it's the legal ones. And in this case, this amendment, I think it's legal experts. And that is progress and I will support such an amendment. I agree, however, that if anything turns out, we can fix the law, but this is a good one for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you, too. I would like to take the floor by inviting Secretary of State Robert Marolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Since I've been summoned several times, I may be further explaining. Following this amendment of 9 July 2007, the members of the authorised commission will be restricted access to that specific part of the documentation or documents which show that secret workers or secret contributors operate. However, the remaining part of the documentation in the specific case will continue to be available for monitoring. There's no doubt here. I further explain and point out that this supervision of this part of the operation of the intelligence and security services is for the first time introduced or even expanded into the Slovenian legal order by the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? Those who have time at your disposal are entitled to debate. And I'm opening the procedure. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, just a few words I'd like to say to what the government representative has just said. The representative of the government said, "that part of the documentation or documents where identification or identification would be visible." That we're explicit. If this is understood to be just an identity, an identification on a particular document, then it will be fine, but that should be the case. As I repeat that if the Supervisory Commission comes and requires one listener to be joined in a document, a specific document, where the tracking will also be, I have said only an example, which is a secret operation, then must see this document, there must be only a covert identity or identity, I repeat, not on the document, identification- aliases, on this document. If that's the case, it's fine, but then we should write it that way. But, we know, practice teaches us that each one then has an explanation of his own and is very dangerous here. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Marolt has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I repeat, the members of the authorised commission will be restricted access only to that particular part of the documentation or those documents which show that secret workers or secret contributors operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you, too. I give the word to Ambassador Joseph Jerovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I also reiterate that, in conflict of values, I will continue to stand on a higher footing, that is to protect human rights and prevent the abuse of secret services in the function of human rights abuses, human rights violations and political abuses. And that's all that and that's why my debate was about that, too, where I found that we're somehow getting closer to some real dictatorship of this article. That's why I don't really understand that I was imagining something. I don't think I'm imagining seeing my buddy Robb here for a month. That it's not a fantasy that it's not unknowingly Jung. Or maybe something unwitting about Jung came out of it. And I have to say that my colleague Kumra's point of view is that I'm being informed by intelligence services about anything -- but it sounded like I'm being personally informed, or even by certain people. I must point out that I have never, not in the past and today, had such contact. Only official. And lately, my colleague Kumro and I have been together several times as members of the Monitoring Commission - and in the past as a member of the Commission. Otherwise, I'm not interested in intelligence, but I'm only interested in their data because they don't want to go too far, so they don't get itchy and go too far. But all of my knowledge, except on this committee, stems from intensive reading of literature, publications, publicity, which has been very intensive in this area for the past 20 years. And here is some knowledge - and also about history and heritage, what has happened to these services in the past, and this is something I know, but I have come to this on public funds. That's why I reject these allegations. And these images are obviously, in fact, my words, which I thought were very innocent, that I gave to Gantar, that I gave to Potcer, and I don't know who, they woke up some advice, they flew out of the hall right away, and they were kind of dedicated. I hope that they will produce good results, that we will actually all figure out together how we can deal with intelligence services in the future, that they will be under control at the same time, and that they will do more to protect society from crime, drugs and everything they have done in the last 12 years of the rule of the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 4 and the two amendments tabled? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Just an extra one. [[End warning sign]] I'd like to explain for a moment. The identity of undercover workers and secret associates, I reiterate, must, in terms of protecting human life as [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u57	Comrade Marolt, the automatics will shut you down after 15 seconds. Can we close the debate? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. We have 50 minutes to discuss. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, Robert Marolt, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Personal Data Protection Act was based on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Its primary purpose is to lay down, in the light of the removal of administrative obstacles and administrative burdens on business operators and the fulfilment of the Lisbon Strategy in the Personal Data Protection Act, exceptions to the so-called administrative obligations for a specific set of smaller business entities. According to the proposal of this Act, a set of personal data controllers with less than 50 employees, i.e. businesses, economic operators which are so-called micro-enterprises in the European scale, are heavily burdened by certain administrative burdens, in particular with regard to the registration of personal data databases, the register of personal data databases with the information officer, the production of a catalogue of personal data databases and the production of an internal act for the protection of personal data. Certain safeguards are also prescribed, for example, that such provisions do not apply to sensitive personal data, public sector, notaries, lawyers and so on. The statutory exceptions described or proposed according to their content do not pose a significant or obvious threat to the individual’s rights to the protection of his personal data, according to the Government’s assessment. However, the implementation of this administrative burden for business operators or the economy, i.e. for craftsmen, entrepreneurs, creates a more business-friendly environment and also significantly reduces the costs for business operators. This also further stimulates the economy, promotes entrepreneurship, accelerates economic development and rationalises and simplifies their business by removing administrative barriers. However, from the point of view of alignment on the other hand, which is very important, the data subject shall be subject to certain facilitations concerning access to his personal data; for example, a shorter time limit for access to his personal data and a provision on the special rule of the Minister of Justice which will introduce a general and appropriate pricer for various written explanations or copies of personal data or information to which the controller is required to provide the personal data with regard to the individual's right to be informed of the personal data referred to in Article 38(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the criminal provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act are aligned with the provisions of the Law on Offences or Amendments to the Law of 2006 and the introduction of the euro as a means of payment in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Data Protection Act will bring significant and effective improvements in the protection of personal data for a fairly wide range of people, i.e. craftsmen, entrepreneurs or business entities in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you, too. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. The chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, will give us a brief report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you, Chairman. A nice greeting to the audience! At its 35th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of personal data. In the opening presentation, the representative of the proposer, the Secretary of State, provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill and stressed that the draft law was based on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, which proposed to the Ministry of Public Administration that, in view of the decommissioning of business entities, this law should be amended as well as in the context of the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments of this service in the written opinion were fully taken into account by the amendments tabled. Representatives of the State Council also participated in the committee meeting, which said that the State Council supports the bill, particularly because it brings relief to the economic benefit. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the information officer who said that they had participated in the drafting of the bill, but in their view, the final proposal of the law deviates slightly from the guidelines which are valid and unaltered at the level of the European Union. The Minister of Public Administration also presented his position on the proposal. He said that there is no dilemma in the Government that the protection of the privacy and personal data of citizens is of paramount importance and that this sensitive area must be adequately regulated, it must also have clear rules and certain sharp sanctions for offenders and cases of abuse. In the debate, however, the members and members of the Committee expressed the hope that the position presented by the Minister of Public Administration, particularly in terms of decommissioning and reducing administrative obstacles, would also prevail on the European Commission, and the members and members of the Committee also pointed to caution in the interpretation of the European acquis. After discussion, the Committee also voted on the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and then adopted all the articles of the bill and proposed them for adoption to this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On the basis of a thorough examination, colleague Bogdan Barovic will present to us the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go. [[...]] [[background advertising]] Slovenian national parties. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u62	Comrade Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues. We understand the intent of the law absolutely in the Slovenian National Party. It was created on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, its main purpose is to relieve administrative burdens for a particular set of personal data controllers, in a circle that counts companies, craftsmen who have less than 50 employees - this is the key purpose of unloading. This is perfectly understandable, of course, if we do not read a little more precisely the opinions of the information officer, where the content is, I will say, almost contrary to the proposal of the law, so of course it is understandable that some Members, if we read just a little bit, are in doubt. In doubt as the information officer says that the proposal for a law deviates significantly from the guidelines at the level of the European Union. For the first time, I am surprised that I do not know exactly what this law has to do with respect for European legislation, whether we can respect it as our own, or whether we have to adapt it in whole or in part to European law. Secondly, I am surprised that the information officer says that the Directive on this content is perfectly clear and requires the establishment of a register of personal data databases. The third, which is surprising and contrary to the proposed amendment, is the claim that specific personal data must be taken into account, but not an exception based on the number of employees. I am also surprised that the author claims that she is - I mean, I am not surprised that she claims to be, but I am surprised again that this novel destroys the importance of the register of personal data databases. Her figures are clear, if we follow a rule that speaks of the number of employees, then her findings, if you read it, you can see for yourself that as many as 97 thousand economic operators of 98 000 500 are not obliged to have a catalogue and not a rule. This means that for the register only a few more than 1,500 registered. And so that with this novelty then this register, which, of course, is required by law, would become unnecessary, a dead letter on paper, as the author claims. It also claims that the exception, which generally defines the number of employees rather than the set of personal data, is too general and is not in accordance with the European Directive. It also claims and contests in essence the purpose of this Act that our current Personal Data Protection Act is sufficient to measure and reduce the administrative burdens of companies; so what it is is, in fact, what we want to achieve with the novel is at least how I understand it. Once again, I stress the essence of the term of the information officer that the directive allows restrictions, but according to the content of personal data, not at a flat rate according to the number of employees in the legal person. Dear representatives of the Government, I believe that this intention is good, but in these two comparisons, I see quite a contradiction and some non-compliance with the European Union directive, which, first of all, we would like to know in the Slovenian National Party whether anything is being violated and how it is being violated or why there is no co-existence, to some single position with the information officer, because then the decision in this National Assembly would be completely clear - everyone would agree with the purpose, so with the implementation of administrative burdens, they would not have doubts and the law would be peaceful. And of course we want to clear up these doubts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Jelen will give his position to the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The DeSUS Group will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Personal Data Protection Act. The first set of amendments to the Act refers to the release of administrative burdens on the business of smaller economic operators in the sense of decommissioning the legal obligations of the production of various internal acts of an undertaking relating to the protection of personal data and the application of the databases to the register of databases itself with the information officer. We agree that the abolition of administrative obligations will undoubtedly contribute to a more business-friendly manner and that this will not result in a decline in the level of privacy and personal data protection. In other Member States, however, the trend towards reducing administrative tasks is also active, and changes in this area are also expected at European Union level. In addition, further arguments to convince the proposed amendment are also the possibility of selecting the operator to whom the standard allows an option that, despite the non-obligability, it may nevertheless decide, in the light of its interests and the interests of employees, to continue to draw up internal personal data protection acts and to report databases to the competent authority. In addition, this case is an exception sufficiently protected under a directive which assumes that an exemption cannot be maintained and that the obligation to register personal data databases must be restored if in fact harmful effects or risks to the protection of personal data of individuals are to be demonstrated. In spite of the proposed exceptions to the proper protection of sensitive personal data, the applicant has provided for those operators operating in areas where there is actually a greater degree of risk of endangering the privacy of individuals due to a greater impact on their legal relationship or personal situation; therefore, the burden of administration is not taken into account for notaries, lawyers, executors, detectives, in private protection, in the field of health and the public sector. Other important changes, and according to our assessment necessary in terms of the exercise of the constitutional right to familiarise themselves with personal data, provide some relief with regard to ways of accessing personal data by the controller, which also means strengthening preventive prevention, possible abuses and infringements of the area, and it is also right to establish uniform legal bases for determining the charging of material costs in relation to the acquisition of such data. Given that the proposal was largely created in cooperation between the ministries concerned and that the objectives pursued are both for the benefit of operators and for the protection of the rights of individuals, but in particular in view of the generally established fact of excessive collection, not only that but also in some other areas, there is also a positive view in our Group of Members of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support any initiatives and legislative changes that reduce the administrative obstacles imposed on business entities at both national and European Union level. After more than two years in force and applying the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, the Government has assessed, on the basis of an initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, that certain amendments and additions to the law could be made to the administrative burden of smaller business entities, without prejudice to the rights of data subjects, nor would they lead to an increase in the risk of misuse of personal data. The main objective of the proposed novel is to administratively, and thus also to financialise some 40,000 business entities with fewer than 50 employees, which is also in line with the European Union's activities and the Lisbon strategy's objectives towards achieving a higher degree of competitiveness of the European Union's economy. The adoption of the proposed novel will relieve the controllers of personal data in small and medium-sized business entities with less than 50 employees, as they will no longer have to comply with the obligation to draw up an internal legal act on personal data protection procedures and measures and to report personal data databases to the information officer. In the light of the decommissioning provision, however, the new provision provides for exceptions to more important personal data which may have a greater impact on the legal relationship or status of the individual, such as detectives, notaries and the like. In addition to the administrative burden, the aim of strengthening the forms of protection of the rights of individuals to be informed of their personal data is also amended and supplemented by a provision setting out certain facilities for access to their personal data, as a rule on the same day, and supplementing the provision imposing on the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of a proposal from the information officer with the Regulation, to provide a pricelist for the charging of material costs for various written explanations, a copy of personal data or other information to be provided by the controller of personal data. In addition to the content additions and amendments to the amendment of the Law, it also aligns criminal provisions with the provisions of the Law on Offences because the fines are aligned with the introduction of the euro as a means of payment of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments to the law give a particular weight to explain that it has been substantively designed and coordinated by the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Justice and the Information Commissioner, who has certain professional concerns which the applicant rightly rejects. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that the adoption of the proposed law on changes and additions to the Personal Data Protection Act means another legal measure by the Government and the coalition, which continues to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises with certain administrative burdens, which will have a favourable financial impact, and thus improve business performance and competitiveness, so we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Lovtišar Bebler will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of Justice. At the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up the law that we are considering today. It is said in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration and the Information Officer. The changes prepared are aimed at reducing the obligation of small employers to produce catalogues of personal data databases, database security and billing rules to peer into their personal data. We therefore support and support the purpose of the proposed law, of course, which is to pursue objectives such as administrative burdens on data controllers, the protection of the rights of the individual and the principles of systemic protection of personal data and compliance with the Offences Act. Of course, we agree with all of this. However, we were informed by the information officer on the working body that some of the agreed positions and starting points had been changed or ignored just before the beginning. The Commissioner pointed out that the proposed amendment would erase the importance of the register of personal data databases, and she also provided information that as many as 97,000 operators of 98,500 would not be obliged to inform the information officer on the proposed exemption, nor would they be obliged to have a catalogue and not a rule. This raises a number of questions, including whether a single act of entering a personal data register is a single production of a catalogue and a rule such a cost that businesses or legal entities would not be able to bear. A total of 942 hits can be found on the website of the Office of the Information Officer under the heading Opinion and the decision on the protection of personal data. This shows that our citizens and citizens are also aware of the importance of protecting personal data. The protection of personal data is a human right and is specifically defined and protected in our Constitution. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the intentions that remove administrative obstacles to legal entities, but on the other hand we also support those acts and cassava that protect individuals from the abuse of personal data. The latter is of primary importance to us. The applicant did not successfully or convincingly reject the warnings and allegations made by the information officer. Is it, therefore, possible and permissible to support the law so superficially? The novelty, however, is adopted even after a reduced procedure, without the possibility of an in-depth examination in the National Assembly. However, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of personal data, of course we expect the right answers from the applicant before doing so. These have so far been actually too weak and unconvincing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u70	Dear President! Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The proposal for amendments to the protection of personal data mainly introduces changes in terms of administrative burdens on data controllers and prescribes certain facilitations in terms of forms of access for individuals to their personal data. This, of course, is nice and right and we call it a good purpose. But the path to hell is always pressed with good intentions and also here, of course, is not only a good part, but it is also what might have been considered bad. A lot of people or data about very many people, it is said, about most of the employees in our country will in some way be unsupervised, will be very loosely distributed, will largely be out of real control and will not be well structured. Here we have heard true praises about how much it will be saved, how much the employers will be burdened by it, as if all hours of work will be devoted to it alone. These are first one-time actions; secondly, all these rules are distributed more or less between companies, among craftsmen, by the "copy-paste" system. There will certainly be no such great savings. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we agree mainly with the part in which you talk about making it easier for individuals to represent their personal data, and that is certainly why they would support the amendment of the law. But everything else is actually very questionable. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, when we have considered everything, we will not oppose the law, but we will be very careful about what is really going on, especially in the light of all these bypasses, which you are so well prepared with the full mouth of fighting and caring for human rights, and on the other hand you are establishing a police state and such a "orto" type.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Colleague Anton Kokalj will give the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u72	Good-bye, everybody! The increasing informationisation of the company has led to the accumulation of data, including a lot of sensitive data relating to the personal status and characteristics of the individual. At the time of modern technology, the simplest tools can be used to obtain a large number of personal data. These are increasingly good to be protected, as also provided for in Article 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, protection protects the identity of an individual and often when the personal data are transmitted, let it be just a telephone number, nor do we realize that someone can use it and cause material and personal damage to us. Employers or businesses have a large number of data, both on their employees and on their business partners, as they also process personal data of persons with whom companies are in a contractual relationship. Each database of personal data, e.g. the employee database, the customer database, which are natural persons and so on, requires the production of its catalogue. Thus, as long as personal data databases are maintained by the controller, so many catalogues must be produced. The controller had to inform the supervisory authority, the information officer, of the establishment of catalogues of personal data and registries if the company or legal person had more than 20 employees for an indefinite period. With the amendment of the Personal Data Protection Act, this border shifts to 50 employees wishing to remove administrative barriers and establish a business-friendly environment. We are also bound by decisions at European Union level. Companies will still be able to transmit data to the register if they want to, but it will no longer be mandatory. This restriction will not apply to undertakings where their activity by nature requires greater care in the handling of personal data which may have a greater impact on the situation of an individual or on legal relations. Next. The notice provides for the uniting of the price list for the material costs of the copy, copy and certificate of information which the competent authorities are obliged to provide under the law itself. In many cases, the irregularity of the amount of material costs has been exploited and customers' operators have been charged unreasonablely high prices, even higher than market prices. In New Slovenia, we certainly hope that, by amending the law, we will follow the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and other legislation and decisions related thereto. The New Slovenia Group will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The area of personal data protection is not only a constitutional right but is also regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act 2004. In 2004, the Data Protection Act also implemented the transposition of the provisions of Directive 95/46 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear from practice that after more than two years, the legal provisions are fairly enforced, but the Government is proposing some amendments and additions to this law. The aim of the bill is to put an administrative burden on around 40,000 business entities, to relieve personal data managers so that they will no longer have to carry out certain administrative tasks that do not significantly help to increase the protection of personal data. This is in line with the European Union's trend towards reducing unnecessary administrative activities and activities to reduce the costs of small and medium-sized business operators. All personal data controllers with less than 50 employees will therefore no longer need to comply with the obligation to produce an internal legal act in personal data protection procedures and measures, i.e. unnecessary administrations, and to produce a catalogue of personal data and to report a description of personal data databases to the register of personal data databases with the information officer. This significantly burdens certain entities. Of course, this does not apply to certain exceptions where notaries, detectives, lawyers, executors and the like are more likely to allow infringements and abuses of the protection of personal data due to the processing of more relevant data in terms of the protection of individual rights. This also soothes the public’s interest in the matter. The provisions of Directive 95/46 also allow for exceptions to the Personal Data Protection Act regarding administrative activities which must be reasonably justified. The basic law is also intended to change the exercise of the protection of the rights of individuals to be informed of their personal data, as the deadlines for requesting access to personal data would be shorter. However, access to data would normally be possible on the day of the request. A general and appropriate pricelist for clarifications and copies of data would be introduced. It is important to note that there is no legal framework for the basis for charging costs, and this area must also be regulated. The provisions set out in the oral explanations may also be obtained free of charge. Nor does the bill introduce new procedures for customers, increase their time-use and not impose higher costs than before. The further purpose of the Personal Data Protection Act is linked to the first legislative amendment of the Law on Offences of 2006 and the introduction of an individual acting independently as a new category of offender. In spite of the information authority's concern that, in view of the provision under which companies with less than 50 employees do not need to produce catalogues of personal data and registering them in the personal data register, the entire register loses its meaning in the Slovenian People's Party that it is most important to promote economic development in the country and businesses to allow smooth functioning and to abolish unnecessary administrative obligations, while at the same time facilitating individuals' access to personal data. The risk of interference with information privacy lies, not in small and medium-sized enterprises that are characteristic of Slovenia, but in the public sector and those entities of the private sector that deal with sensitive personal data. Due to the interest of the development of Slovenian companies and to avoid unnecessary administrative procedures, this law will be supported in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the half-hour vote on the last item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. By then, I'm breaking this point. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY, ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT LAW. The law is dealt with by an emergency procedure. They have two hours and 15 minutes to discuss it. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council, and I therefore give the floor to Mr Robert Marolt, State Secretary, for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Three weeks ago, you adopted a new law on judicial service in the context of the so-called salary reform and wage arrangements for judges and lawyers. In addition, a reasoned warning was given by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of a certain significant discrepancy between the provisions of the Judicial Service Act and the Courts Act. In order to remedy this discrepancy, we have prepared a proposal for a new law on the courts before you at the Ministry of Justice. At the Ministry of Justice, we are preparing a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Courts in accordance with the legislative work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. Almost all the changes that are ahead of you are linked to the provisions of the Judicial Service Act. One which is also defined as the reason for the urgency procedure is bound by the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and was created on the basis of a proposal by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Beyond that, another change is proposed, which is not of a systemic nature, namely, the determination of the day of justice on 4 November. The draft law thus provides for the harmonisation of the adopted amendment of the Law on Judicial Service of 19 June 2007 with regard to the simplification of the application procedure for vacant seats. That is, the assessment of the suitability of each candidate for judicial service, as proposed, shall be drawn up by the President of the Court of Justice in which the seat of the court is opened and not by the Personal Council anymore. Furthermore, by amending the Law on Judicial Service, the Institute of Regional and Inter-Circular Judges shall be replaced by the Institute of District or District Judges, who act in a judicial capacity in a higher court and may be assigned to a district or district court within the same or other higher court for the purpose of replacing absent judges, resolving extraordinary, sudden cases or handling cases in other justified cases, such as the provision of a constitutional and convention right to a trial within a reasonable time or for the purpose of remedying judicial arrears in a particular particular court. From the point of view of the Law on the Enforcement and Insurance and the Operation of the Special, I can say that the new Informationised Central Enforcement Department at the District Court in Ljubljana provides for a clear definition of the division of local jurisdiction between the District Courts in enforcement proceedings on the basis of a authentic instrument before and after the determination of the legality of the enforcement decision, otherwise in practice a breach of the principle of legal certainty. And one last change. The bill also establishes the day of Slovenian justice on 4 November. On the day of publication and entry into force of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice, if you permit, I quote, "The Order of Justice of Dr. Vladimir Ravnihar on the regulation and functioning of justice published in the Official Journal of the National Government of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia in Ljubljana in 1918." The most important provisions of these orders or regulations are that the official language in the courts is in place of the German Slovene, that all the laws and orders so far remain in force, of course "mutatis mutandis" and that the judgments are no longer pronounced on behalf of the emperor, but on behalf of the law. This day can be considered the first step or the first legal document on the way to the independence of the justice system of Slovenia. That regulation applied substantively to justice in a broader sense, not only to courts, but also to state justice, according to today's State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. The chairman of the committee, Mr Mojca Kucler Dolinar, will present their findings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much again. Good-bye. At its 39th urgent meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the procedure should be carried out in the context of an urgent procedure. Mr Lovro Šturm, Minister for Justice, explained the purpose of the bill of conformity with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its 29th meeting. He also said that there was a new, more extensive proposal for a amendment to the Law on Courts, which would be tabled under the ordinary legislative procedure. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments of this service were taken into account in the course of the procedure and in their written opinion and that he gave his position with regard to Article 5 or in relation to the determination of the day of justice. Representatives of the Supreme Court were also present, namely the Secretary-General, who said that the Supreme Court agrees with the Institute of so-called Flying Mobile Judges and that the proposal for a law contains solutions relating to the law on enforcement and insurance on their proposal. He also explained the answer and answered the question raised in the debate as to the position of the judiciary on the introduction of the day of justice. He said that the Supreme Court in its college had not been defined until the very date of the day of justice, but in the view of the Supreme Court, it would make sense to introduce that day at the beginning of the year of justice. Representatives of the Council of Justice were also invited to the meeting, and they apologized for their absence from the meeting. In the course of the debate, the Minister also responded to individual questions raised, particularly in the context of Article 5 of the bill setting out the date of the judiciary on 4 November, some members felt that a broad debate should be held on that solution and that an amendment by the SD Group was also tabled with the proposal to set it as the date of the trial on 31 May. With regard to the day of justice, the Minister explained that the recognitions were intended for all judicial personnel, not only judges, and therefore, in their view, in the opinion of the Government and the Ministry of Justice, the day of justice would be more appropriate than the day of judgment, since in this case all those who were not judges in this proceeding would be excluded. He pointed out, however, that the Minister would have no important role to play in the award, but that was above all a matter of justice. In the context of the debate and the vote, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition groups, did not adopt a proposal for an amendment to the Committee of the SD Group of Members, and finally adopted all the other articles of the law and proposed them for adoption to this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a nice greeting to all those who insist. I will predict the likelihood that the Law on Courts will be passed, including with the support of the DeSUS Group of Members, but I would like to express some concerns that we are not fully and most pleased with. First of all, let me say that this law actually follows the Judicial Service Act. When we adopted the Law on Judicial Service, we were not enthusiastic and zealous supporters of this law. We were not the only ones, and even the judicial branch had a few protests on this account, and let me remind you that at the time, due to the reason that wages were arranged, some functions were taken away from the personal world, some powers, and that the procedure under which this was done had already been challenged. We're always in a bit of a hurry. So the reason is somewhere else and today we are talking about the urgent consequences and because there is a discrepancy between the two laws, of course, also the DeSUS Group does not remain anything other than insisting on this disharmony to compress its teeth and cast its votes or at least it does not object. The marriage has been changed several times, seven times if I remember correctly, so every two years about once, and too often it happens to go by emergency procedure. We now again have a proposal for an emergency procedure and it is clear what the argument is, as always in this process, that there is a danger of irreparable and grave consequences for our country. I really want to know how we are going to endanger the country if we are going to harmonise these salaries here a month or a week later, how we are going to cause irreparable consequences or how hard to correct if this judicial day is to be determined some week later - some of the concerns about it and any discussion may still be necessary. How, with regard to powers, local powers and flying judges, which will be adopted about a week later, will put the interests of the state at risk. This simply does not go well with the argument, and we feel that this is a multiple of the handiwork that has been seen. We are critical of the fact that there is too often a change in the law after we change certain other laws in series, which could all be drafted at the same time. The ministries probably know what follows certain adopted laws, they would be able to predict this, prepare these amendments to other laws, and propose them for adoption at the same time. Thus, transparency would be significantly higher, it would be less confusing to hunt for different laws that need to change, it would probably be less need for urgent and reduced procedures, and it would probably be significantly less time to adopt these laws than now, when each one is individually and with specific arguments and with long tirades. We will, as I said, support this amendment and the amendment of the law, although some comments have also been made by the Legislative and Legal Service and that the Ministry or the proposer has said: yes, the Legislative and Legal Service is right, we will not take this into account, as we recognize that it is right. It would appear that it would be good and better if only several times more responsive to these recommendations, which are still being received here by the professional services, during the process. Otherwise, because we support the form of a "flying" judge, we support the award of those who will contribute to a faster trial in the courts, because we want local competences to be precisely defined, so we cannot escape it, so we are forced to support it in some way and cannot actually be against this amendment, but it is only right to point out some flaws and therefore count them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present to us the position of the National Community. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u82	We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice and, following an urgent procedure, to harmonise certain uncoordinated cases. The proposed amendments constitute a harmonisation with the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, which simplifies the procedure for the selection of judges. The assessment of the suitability of each candidate shall thus be drawn up by the President of the Court in which the seat of the court is drawn up and no longer by the Personal Council. The amendment of the law establishes special courts for district and district judges who, in accordance with the Judicial Service Act, will be able to perform judicial functions in a higher court and may be assigned to a district or district court within the area of the same higher court for a period of up to three years with the possibility of reappointment for the purpose of replacing absent judges, handling exceptional cases or handling cases in other justified cases, in particular with a view to ensuring the right to a trial within a reasonable time. This means simplifying the procedure for the replacement of judges in the Courts of First Instance, since judges who are elected or appointed to special posts in a higher court will therefore not have to be assigned or assigned to a higher court. This will likely create an opportunity for automatic replacement of judges in first-degree courts. We believe that the bill deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts. Although it is not a matter of extensive amendment and legislative additions, this is likely to await us in the autumn, and this novelty is also a further step towards greater efficiency in the work of the courts and the reduction of judicial proceedings. Since we have already adopted the Judicial Service Act at one of the last meetings of the National Assembly, we also need to align with it those provisions of the Courts Act relating to the procedure for the application to the Court of Justice, thereby simplifying the procedure and strengthening the role and responsibility of the President of the Court. Consistency with the Judicial Service Act is also a new institute of district and district judges who will hold a special court seat in a higher court and may be assigned to a district or district court within the area of that or another higher court. This will make it more flexible than it has ever been to replace absent judges, resolve exceptional cases and ensure the right to a trial within a reasonable time. The legal amendment under consideration also removes the so far unclear distribution of local jurisdiction between the District Courts in enforcement proceedings on the basis of a authentic instrument. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party also support the introduction of the day of Slovenian justice, which will be November 4th, since we think this day is the most appropriate given the historical facts. On this day, in 1918, the current Minister of Justice of the then National Government of the SHS published a regulation in the Official Journal, which first justified the Slovenian judiciary, designated the Slovenian language as the official language in the courts and had to be declared on behalf of the law. As it is said, we will therefore support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler will present to us the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this mandate, the Government has proposed for the third time to amend and supplement the Law on Courts. The Minister of Justice has already announced at a meeting of the Home Committee that the Ministry is also preparing a fourth amendment to this Act. So, at this point, when we accept the third novel, the minister already has the text of a new fourth novel on his desk. We are, of course, wondering what this fact of continuous and partial amendment of the law and the apparent absence of some planned, strategic design, regulation of such an important subsystem as the judiciary means for general legal certainty, for the transparency and stability of the functioning of the courts. At the same time, the proposaler is embarrassing us. In view of what draft draft of this third novel has already been circulated between judges and in the profession, we must today be grateful that the Minister and the Government have not persisted in some revolutionary and completely unacceptable provisions in that draft which has already filled in a number of articles and contributions in our public publications and, of course, strongly discouraged the legal profession. So in the Group of Social Democrats, we look forward to the knowledge of the Ministry that initially the planned changes in the draft were completely unacceptable and apparently only rejected. That is why we support today those changes that are in line with the adopted amendment of the Judicial Service Act and are somehow self-sufficient. We do not oppose those provisions which introduce special courts for district and district judges who will be able to perform judicial functions in a higher court or may be more mobile in view of the needs due to the large number of cases belonging to the district or district courts within the area of the same higher court. I suppose these provisions, although somewhat unusual, are not opposed by the judiciary. The Social Democrats' Group, however, has tabled an amendment to Article 5, which instead of the proposed day of justice, proposes the introduction of only a day of justice, since it is a law on courts which does not deal with the State Prosecutor's Office and not with the State's Attorney's Office, and as a day of justice we propose 31 May, this is the date on which the National Assembly ratified the European Convention on Human Rights on 31 May 1994, thereby providing citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with one more, last and highest trial before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where they feel that their rights and fundamental freedoms have been violated at home. And we also believe that if we want such a day of justice to truly mean something valuable, important to the people who are employed in the judiciary, and that they will be able to identify themselves in some way with that day, we need to ensure that there is a wider debate in the judiciary itself. This seems only logical to us, and given that the Minister has announced the new novelism that we are adopting today, we are proposing that, for example, unless our amendment is adopted, this article is simply deleted from this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you, too. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present us the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u88	Chairman, thank you very much. Dear fellows and fellows! We are talking about the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, it is one year's change, we can say that if we have every third change and we are now here for three years, it is said that this is some very dynamic handling of a very stable case as the judiciary should be. I don't know if it's good to fix things that work, to invent new things; but, well, if this is the period of experiments, let's take it as it is. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we have decided to oppose the adoption of this law, not only because it changes matters where it is not necessary, but also because it is an urgent procedure without need, because there was time, at least after the Constitutional Court's decision, that this should be resolved within one year is sufficient, but we welcome the fact that the procedure has started in time. In fact, the applicant, as a reason for the urgency procedure, points out that, due to the exceptional importance of harmonising payment arrangements with the judiciary's rights constitution, which was substantively linked to the harmonisation of the Wages Act, had negative consequences under any other procedure, such as the urgency. I am not saying no to the negative, but the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in paragraph 143 of Article 1 speak of the necessity of the adoption of a law for other reasons. It is said, because of the interests of the security or defence of the State, in order to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State; then an urgent procedure may be proposed. I do not know now which category you have put this issue into: whether the security and defence of the country or perhaps during natural disasters, I hope - but also the difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country can actually have such a degree of care to change legislation, not to maintain some stability. So, because of all that I have just told, we cannot support the bill at the Liberal Democracy Club. It's also because it regulates the same matter, or it's being coordinated, which we've actually been up against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to my colleagues and friends. In the New Slovenia Group, however, we take a slightly more optimistic view of the judiciary and of the amendments to the Law on Courts. This week, the Supreme Court presented a report on the work of the judiciary for 2006. Although last year's record of new cases was set, the number of backlogs decreased by as much as 10%. And the press release, which was and published before the Supreme Court, states that President Franc Testen notes that last year, the number of delays in major cases, despite the record of new cases, decreased by 10% and that the backlogs between major cases decreased compared to last year. Surely, on the one hand, there is the fact that even in the judiciary they have begun to seek internal reserves. However, I hope that we can also say that, by amending the legislation on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm, we have also contributed something to this in the legislative branch of government. While the Law on Courts is indeed changing and, according to the Minister's forecasts, this is not the last change, but if such a trend continues, why not improve the situation for the work of the courts, which will produce better results. In fact, the new Law on Courts is due to a change in the package of laws that we passed last month, especially the Law on Judicial Service. Unconformity between the law has led to provisions on the simplification of the application procedure to the Court of Justice and provisions relating to the Institute of Mobile Judges. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that this arrangement is also supported by the Supreme Court. The novelty is also coordinated with the law on enforcement and insurance and also provides for a clearer division between district courts in enforcement and insurance proceedings on the basis of a authentic instrument. However, if we move to a more distant history, the important milestone in Slovenian justice took place on 4 November 1918 when the Minister of Justice, Dr. Vladimir Ravnihar, issued a regulation on the regulation of the administration and functioning of justice, which defined Slovenian as an official language in the courts. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the anniversary of the regulation is an appropriate date for the celebration of the day of Slovenian justice, which is when other bodies of the judicial system were established, which can indeed be considered the basis on which Slovenian justice stands today. Recognition of the successful work that the Minister of Justice or the President of the Supreme Court will be able to grant on this day will be awarded to the officials and other officials of the judiciary, the State Prosecutor's Office and the Office of the Defence. Of course, this is not about replacing this prize with other awards, or this day with those on the initiative of a private initiative, because this is about achievements that are important for the functioning of the country and are of wider importance. In the New Slovenia Group, we look forward to the first celebration of the day of Slovenian justice - if this law is adopted today and we want it to be - this fall, and in particular, we want the judiciary to regain the reputation it certainly deserves. And if this trend continues, as it did last year and before last year, this will lead to a common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Marjana Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, those who are here. The purpose of the law proposed by the Government is to comply with the Law on Judicial Service in order to prevent the provisions of the amended Law on Judicial Service from being inconsistent with the provisions of the applicable Law on Courts. The draft law proposes that, by drawing up opinions on the suitability of candidates for higher courts or district courts, the personal council of the higher or district court should no longer be competent, but should, in accordance with the law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Service, establish an assessment of the suitability of each candidate by the President of the Court of Justice in which the vacant seat is drawn up. In the practice of appointment, there may be various external or internal pressure on a particular judge, which is why he suffers the principle of objectivity, which is essential in the legal system. However, in this way, the proposal gives the judge more power than he had under the previous law. According to the 1994 Law on the Courts of Justice, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice and on the previous opinion of the President of the Supreme Court of the District Court at the seat of the District Court and in the District Court at the seat of the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice shall establish special courts for judges who shall, in other courts within the area of the same higher court, replace absent judges and resolve cases in duly justified cases by so-called regional and cross-district judges. The proposal for a law would replace the institute of inter-district and inter-district judges with an institute of district and district judges who would hold a special court seat in a higher court where they also serve as judges. However, if necessary, they could be assigned to work at first-degree courts within the area of the same or other higher court. In this regard, it should be added that the work of district and district courts and higher courts is not entirely identical and that the work now carried out in district or district courts may not contribute to the speedy resolution of judicial backlogs resulting from the absence of a judge, since the files are often a few thousand pages long. However, it should be added that any replacement work can contribute to the abolition of judicial backlogs. Even if it takes a great deal of time to brief the alternate judge on the matters of the absent judge, it contributes in the long run to minor judicial backlogs. The bill also provides that these district and district judges may be assigned to district or district courts within the same or other higher court. It is only in this direction that our concern is whether, in terms of the jurisdiction of the courts, it would be more appropriate to assign judges only to district and district courts within the area of the same higher court. However, such a way would have only a positive impact on the smooth functioning of the judicial system. We also agree with the proposal on the historical significance of November 4th as the day of Slovenian justice. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we decided to support the proposal of the law because of its positive consequences on the functioning of the courts and the simplification of the procedure for running for court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u94	Your Honors are here! When we examined the law before us in the parliamentary group today, we all wondered astonishment or came to the fact that there is really too much time within the Ministry of Justice in our country. To see that this is only the fourth or third novel this year from this area, only this year, and that we have already announced a new amendment to the same law at the end of the year, we can come easily, but I do not want to be offensive, really no, only to this conclusion that there is much, much too much time at the Ministry of Justice, that they are not likely to direct it anywhere else than to write the law on changes and additions. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, personally, I am not one of those who strives for direct television broadcasting of meetings of the National Assembly or who does not tend to become overly frequent television broadcasters. Why? The work of the Ministry of Justice also includes the field of judges. We can safely say, irrespective of what the President of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice has said, that judicial backlogs have been reduced despite the large number of new growths, that this is one of those branches of government in our country, which is still, after the assessment of citizens and citizens, i.e. customers of these services, is the least quality. Perhaps you, like me, receive mail daily mainly from the areas of inquality of the judiciary, judicial backlogs, the potential threats of our country and similar things. I believe that this is an integral part of every citizen's daily mail. And then we see in the bill that you are judges, or rather, within the Ministry of Justice, they want to attribute even their holiday and that the basic text was a holiday or a day of judges. Then he became a member of the judiciary on November 4th. The novela that is ahead of us today is heading in four directions. One of these directions is the day of justice or, as was initially said, the day of judges. And now let me go back to the part where I said I wasn't an overly fan of direct television. If I was at home on Saturday, when I was at my mom's lunch, asking what you accepted this week in the National Assembly, and I would say that on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, we had accepted a judge's day or a justice day, so those groups of people who are causing the highest backlogs in our country wouldn't believe me. From this title, however, it is sometimes "fine" that we have direct television broadcasts so that everyone around us can see what we are actually doing. And the day of justice is the third novel this year only, which is offered to us within the Ministry of Justice. The bill goes on to say that the law is subject to the Lukende scheme, that is, the reduction of judicial backlogs. We have already found, or over the past few years, that the additional financial resources allocated under the budget or the rebalancing, additional premises, additional staffing concessions for employment, last but not least, this is another novelty under this law, have not contributed to the quality of the trial and the reduction of judicial backlogs. From this title comes another fact: the fact within the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group: they have too little ideas and too much time at the Ministry of Justice. And of course, because they are not egotistical, they want time to steal from the National Assembly. If the Ministry of Justice had taken a serious approach after quality treatment or through quality ideas that would reduce judicial backlogs, then once, for God's sake, they would have come with a quality law, not a law that defines the day of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of the proposal you have received. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I am opening the application for debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have already announced this amendment, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, in which we propose, for the first time, to be determined as a date of the judiciary on 31 May, this is the date on which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ratified the European Convention on Human Rights on 31 May 1994 and ratified the 11th Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, which sets out in more detail and changes the role and position of the European Court of Human Rights, which constitutes a new and last highest institution, a judicial institution which is available to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia when they consider that they have been violated human rights and that they have not been able, under internal law and on the internal path of justice, to eliminate these crimes and to achieve satisfaction. This is a very important milestone in our history and also in the position of our citizen and citizen when it comes to the protection of their human rights and fundamental freedoms. Secondly, we propose not to set a day of justice, but a day of justice. This is because, even formally, this is a speech on the Law on Courts, and therefore this law does not address state prosecutors and state prosecutors, nor does it concern state defences and state lawyers. And it's also sort of a nomotech, legal system inappropriate. It is also inappropriate that the Minister of Justice in this law lays down the power to hand over these special awards to state lawyers and state prosecutors. That's why we think it's the only acceptable day of justice. Thirdly, what we are trying to present here in particular is the fact that there was no special debate within the judiciary about which day the judiciary would choose as one suitable for such a special mark. And we have received an answer from the working body that, although the Supreme Court has discussed something about this in its succinct composition, and that it does not see any specific reasons for, that is to say, such a proposal and not for any particular reason to oppose such a day. This means that this purpose has not been achieved, however, that the day of the judiciary should be one day in which the people employed in the judiciary, in some way, should identify themselves, which would also mean something special, something particularly valuable to them that day. In view of the fact that the Minister of Justice has already announced a new novelty of this novel, we propose that if this amendment is not adopted, this provision should simply be left out of this draft and leave or provide additional opportunity for the judiciary itself to make a more detailed and more precise statement on this matter. I think our amendment is very rational, very reasonable, that it's worth attaching. If not, let us, as it were, allow the judiciary to express itself on a holiday and when it wants it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you. The Secretary of State, Mr Marolt, also made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr President, if I may, I would like to briefly explain why we do not support the proposed amendment. Indeed, the proposed day of 31 May, the day we ratified the European Convention on Human Rights in 1994, is certainly an interesting idea. However, it is necessary to recognise, as Mr Lovro Šturm has already pointed out on the home committee, that we have ratified the Convention quite late. In the crucial year of 1918, however, our justice showed great determination, as demonstrated by the then national government. It is therefore a milestone covering the entire spectrum of justice. It is recognised that the ratification of the European Union on human rights is an important contribution in Slovenian history, but it does not cover the whole of the judiciary and not the whole of justice. As I pointed out in the opening presentation of the novel, other bodies of the judicial system were also established by Dr. Ravnihar's regulation, so this day can be considered as the first step or the first document on the way to the independence of the entire judicial system in Slovenia. It should be noted that there are still many other staff in the judicial system besides judges, i.e. professional staff, administrative and technical staff. I am talking about referees in the Land Book, referees in executive departments, referees in the Court Register and all the support staff in their work. So the whole judicial administration, the professional co-workers, who are formally part of the public sector and the public servants system, and it would not be right, would also be unfair if they were excluded. For their work, their contribution to the efficient, improved work of the judiciary, to the abolition of judicial backlogs, to the ongoing resolution of matters is extremely important. In any event, the Minister of Justice may not have any role to play in assigning awards to the judges. Therefore, the proposal also stipulates that the President of the Supreme Court will grant recognition to judges and other officials of the courts, while the Minister of Justice will grant recognition to employees of public servants in the courts, state prosecutors, state defences and the Ministry of Justice. The proposal for a novel also makes clear the difference between the recognitions granted to public servants and those awarded to judges. I think it's also right to say just one more thing, a paragraph or two about Dr. Ravnihar. Dr Vladimir Ravnihar was a lawyer by profession, he was a member of the Danish Parliament, a member of the first national government of the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, and a commissioner of justice. The Commissioner for Justice, in fact, means or in the current language - the Minister of Justice. With regard to the views of the honourable Member, if this is to be an intervention in other parts of the judiciary, in a broader sense, I must stress that the day of justice will not interfere with sectoral, if I may call it, the days of the judiciary or judicial authorities, particularly the State Prosecutor's Office, especially for the state's defence, which can still be organised within its organisation. A general day, i.e. the day of justice, is intended to recognise the achievements of the entire judiciary, i.e. in a broader sense. The full judiciary, with its quality work, up-to-date work, by eliminating judicial backlogs, i.e. the work of prosecutors, lawyers and, of course, of judges and employees of public officials in the judiciary, contributes significantly and fully to the work of the judicial system. Let me conclude by stressing that it is right for us to choose for the day of justice the day that really happened within Slovenia and which truly represents a historical milestone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u100	I have a replica of the execution of Mr State Secretary, who said it would not be about the interventions I was talking about, the State Prosecutor's Office and the State's Attorney's Office. I was not talking about any action, I was just talking about the fact that we are here discussing the law on the courts, the law on the courts, and that, therefore, in the law on the courts, we cannot deal with the issue of other laws, and therefore we are opposed to the provision that the Minister of Justice should grant special recognition to both state prosecutors and state lawyers. That's it. Secondly, the State Secretary claims that the European Convention on Human Rights in the National Assembly has been ratified late. Of course, that's not true either. It is not true that we have become members of the Council of Europe on 10 May 1993. In all countries, as a rule, the ratification procedure of the European Convention on Human Rights takes at least one year. In addition, let us not forget that in the chapter on human rights in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia we have so much as introduced the entire content of the European Convention on Human Rights, that is, before we became members of the Council of Europe at all. Thus, it is not here to mislead the public and fellow Members that this is the case, but there is no need to convince us of the importance and role of Mr Ravnihar. Also in the historical book From Pohlin's Dictionary to the Independent State, Peter Vodopivec mentioned Mr. Ravnihar, the late, deserving husband of the Slovenian family in several cities. And it is not about convincing whether he was important and his actions, whether they were important or not. It is that we propose that as a day of the judiciary, one day, which will come from another historical fact and which will not be linked to a specific person, because we know that this often causes problems in our public and in our everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you. Since it's a little low-profile, I'm gonna be on a raise. Mrs. Kucler, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, in the context of the presentation of our position, New Slovenia's position, we have already been told that we think it is an appropriate date for the Justice Day on 4 November, with the starting event in 4 November 1918, when the Minister of Justice, Dr Vladimir Ravnihar, in the regulation, stipulated that the Slovenian language is used as an official language in the courts, and that he has previously established a second structure and other bodies of the judicial system. I will also define myself until the SD Group's amendment and return to the debate about the SD Group's amendment, which proposes for Justice Day or Justice on 31 May with a fundamental event, as they say, on 31 May. 1994 when the National Assembly adopted the Act ratifying the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Of course, no one objects to the fact that this date is not very important, that ratification is important, that, as such, the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is very important and some foundation for the protection of human rights and freedoms in democratic countries. In fact, as the colleague has already pointed out, we have already taken these views or these chapters into account in the Slovenian Constitution, which we have adopted years earlier than the ratification of the Convention itself, and have also respected and respected human rights since independence. The content of this Convention is meaningfully incorporated into the Slovenian Constitution and, as I said, we have received it years ago. Thus, it seems to us that the date of the adoption of the law on ratification is an important, important milestone, but not as crucial or as symbolic as the date proposed in the bill by the Ministry of Justice. The protection of human rights is, of course, the basis for working in the judiciary, but not only for working in the judiciary, is the basis for the work of a type of work of other institutions that are in the country, societies, governmental, non-governmental organisations. I, too, stand in the position that the protection of human rights and freedoms is the basis that must be taken into account, that is to be taken absolutely into account by every judge, and I wish it. It would be difficult to say, however, that only judges could be given a patronage over the protection and protection of human rights, because you yourself often point out from your parliamentary group that there are many institutions in our country that are also successful in caring for this. Therefore, it may also be unfair for these others to have recognition for the protection of human rights and respect for human rights at their disposal only judges or wider judicial personnel within the justice system. However, once Members of the SD Group have started to base their proposal a little differently, especially on the fact that Slovenians have been given the opportunity to complain to the European Court of Human Rights, I would also ask here whether they have spoken to judges or judicial officials if they are really the most able to identify with this date. If we look at the very meaning of the Institute for the Protection of Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, it is that when a citizen in a country uses all legal possibilities in our country, it is only then that he has the opportunity to go to the European Court of Human Rights. And in the final stage, this court can determine that in some proceedings the conduct may have deviated slightly from the very origins. That the judge could have done something a little differently than they had found in the European Court of Human Rights. That is why I would like to point out here this proposal from this point of view also whether the judges could identify themselves as their day on 31 May. However, as we say, we think that November 4 is the right date, so we see no reason to support the SD Group's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the last item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.40. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 2 p.m. with consideration of item 15 of the agenda, this is the 2007 Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u104	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving on to 15. TIME OF DAY - REBALANCE PROPOSAL OF THE REBALANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2007 The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to present the Draft Budget Balance 2007. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia celebrated the 16th anniversary of its existence a few weeks ago. In the fact that Slovenia has established itself in the international community at that time, we are certainly most pleased that the economic situation in Slovenia is good at that time. As the only new member of the European Union at the beginning of this year, we have successfully taken over the euro as our own currency, although we have risen to a higher level of development and that inflation has increased slightly in recent months, we can say that even after the euro has been taken over, we have managed to maintain key macroeconomic balance. Thus, we are on track to meet the objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, which are also the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, more than successfully. When we achieved very good economic and public financial results in 2006, very favourable economic developments continue in 2007. In the first quarter, Slovenia recorded 7.2% of economic growth. The results of the effects of the reform measures adopted during the first years of the mandate give results. With tax reform, the burdened Slovenian economy has responded very well to the increased demand from abroad and has increased market shares in foreign markets. Exports and investments were the main driver of high economic growth this year. High economic growth is also positively reflected in the labour market in 2007. Employment is rising and the number of registered unemployed decreased by almost 19% by May 2007 compared to May 2006. Inflation, which serves as a Maastricht criterion in the European Union, was 2.5% in Slovenia in May this year and is still 0.1% below the Maastricht criteria. The Government's Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has estimated that the rise in inflation is mainly due to the rise in food and energy prices. A similar trend is also observed in other countries of the European Union, where similar trends are recorded, and the Union or the European Commission has already announced a new price for food price trends at higher levels. Liquid fuel prices also rose in the first half of the year above or above expectations. The increase in inflation, according to analyses by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, is not due to rapid economic growth nor to the introduction of the euro, although the UMAR forecast for annual inflation has corrected 3.2 percentage points and the government will continue its averages at 3 percentage points with policies that will enable the Maastricht criterion for inflation to be met in the future. Dear Members and Members, the main objective of public financial policy remains to reduce the public financial deficit and to maintain the debt of the wider sector of the country as a percentage of gross domestic product at a low level. Such a policy will provide the Slovenian economy with a stable macroeconomic environment under the conditions of the monetary union. In view of the debate in Slovenia, it is important to stress that the country's general sector deficit has decreased by 2.3 percentage points of GDP in 2004, 1.48 percentage points of GDP in 2005 and 2006 to 1.4 percentage points of GDP. Although the general sector deficit of 1.5% of GDP is planned for 2007 we believe that actual realisation will be lower as it has been in previous times. The government is committed to achieving the medium-term objective of the Stability and Growth Pact, which foresees that the country's wider sector's cyclical deficit does not exceed 1% of GDP of the product. Due to the urgent investment in rail infrastructure, this objective will be achieved in 2009, otherwise it would be achieved first. The government has decided to continue to modernise and build rail infrastructure, and we should bite into this problem as soon as possible. This includes the construction of new tracks, including the second track of Divaca-Koper. In the framework of the 5th and 10th railway corridor, these investments are also recognised as EU priorities. It is precisely because of the EU's priorities and for development reasons that investment in rail infrastructure is no longer possible to postpone. In view of the constraints in the state budget, additional resources will also need to be provided for these purposes during the next stages of modernisation of railway infrastructure. The government has thus decided to use EU budget funds and investment in the form of a public-private partnership to finance. In November last year, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on Public-Private Partnership, which finally makes such investments possible. Despite the projected increase in expenditure on rail infrastructure investments, the level of expenditure of the wider sector of the country will be reduced by 3 percentage points of GDP during the government's term of office. This reduction is the result of a cost-effective and efficient use of public funds and goes beyond even the ambitious pre-election promises and commitments made under the Coalition Treaty. The government has also reduced its public financial revenues by a comprehensive tax reform, which is expected to decrease by 2.4 percentage points of gross domestic product during the government's term of office. We have significantly burdened the Slovenian economy with an excessive tax burden and will therefore be more competitive in domestic and foreign markets. Employment of higher education workers will be cheaper. The Slovenian economy will be able to devote more resources to research and development and investment, which will be an additional impetus for development and jobs. Dear Members and Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has defined the spending plan for public funds in the 2007-2008 budget memorandum, which was later supplemented by proposals for amending the budget for this year. As we are very well aware that the development planning of the budget and the responsible spending of budgetary resources are an important driver of development, today we are also presenting to you the national budget balance for 2007. For the budgetary user, it is a minimum adjustment, with the budgetary user of the Ministry of Transport creating a new body in the structure, a Directorate for the Management of Investments of Public Railway Infrastructure, which will take over the implementation of the determined tasks and programmes in the field of rail transport. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also decided to participate in the initialisation of the New Ljubljana Bank of EUR 50 million. This recapitalisation is necessary at the moment due to the need to develop and expand the bank. The proposal for the 2007 national budget rebalancing envisions €7.76 billion in revenue, 24.3% of gross domestic product and €8.14 billion of expenditure and 25.5% of gross domestic product. The deficit measured according to the national methodology in 2007 is estimated at 1.2% of gross domestic product. Compared to the implementation of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2006, this means that the budget revenue is reduced by 0.54 percentage points, while expenditure is reduced by 0.12 percentage points of gross domestic product. The consolidated public finances for this year, which also include the revenue of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the revenue of municipalities, are estimated at EUR 13.68 billion and 43.2% of gross domestic product. Consolidated public financial expenditure is estimated at EUR 14.03 billion or 44.3% of gross domestic product, taking into account the national budget's rebalancing. The projected consolidated government deficit according to the national methodology will thus amount to €364 million in 2007 and €1.1 per cent of GDP in 2007. The debt of the wider sector is planned at 28.2 per cent of GDP in 2007. Under the stability programme, the government will reduce its public debt management policy by the end of the programming period. The country's general sector deficit, measured according to the ES095 methodology, will also remain the estimated 1.5 percentage points of GDP after the adopted state budget rebalancing. Slovenia set two main objectives in the public financial area: to reduce the public financial deficit to 1 per cent of gross domestic product by 2009 and to achieve balanced public finances two years later. Given the very good economic situation and the favourable forecasts, this objective is realistically achievable. We pay particular attention to the restructuring of the budget, and we are aware that, when monetary policy is transferred to the European Central Bank, fiscal and structural policies remain leveraged to respond to possible disadvantages. With regard to medium-term public funding targets, we pay particular attention to the preparation of strategies to ensure the long-term stability of public finances. Dear Members, Slovenia is in a very specific and very important period of its development. After years of relatively slow economic growth, we are now witnessing high economic growth and at the same time rapid employment growth. Public and economic policies are geared towards achieving strategic development goals. We believe that, even with such an updated budget, we will draw closer to the targets outlined by a step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, who will present the proposal for a budget rebalancing for 2007. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members. The 2007 budget rebalancing, which is ahead of you, as Mr President of the Government has already said, had to be prepared for two main reasons: the establishment of a Directorate for the Management of Public Railway Infrastructure Investments, an Authority within the Ministry of Transport, and the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. This is a change that ensures the first phase of the modernisation of railway infrastructure and the maintenance of the same direct or indirect share of the State in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, which will not affect the public financial position of Slovenia. Let me begin by stressing that the projected deficit of the wider sector of the country this year due to the state budget balance, which is only part of this broader concept of the state sector, will not increase and is expected to amount to a maximum of 1.5% of GDP. Another time. On the basis of the Law adopted this year amending and supplementing the Law on Rail Transport, a Directorate for the Management of Investments of Public Railway Infrastructure is established at the Ministry of Transport, which will take over certain tasks and programmes in the field of rail transport from the public railway agency. The Agency will assume a new supervisory and security function in the field of rail transport in accordance with European Union directives. In the event of a transfer of powers, the Agency's financial resources will be transferred to the state budget and, at the same time, EUR 110.4 million will be transferred to the state budget this year. To this end, the balance of the state budget in the Ministry of Finance’s financial plan is the EUR 14.1 million already planned for the adoption of the budget for the payment of the capital and interest to the Ministry of Transport as a transfer to the public transport agency. At this point, I would like to point out that, this year, two laws have entered into force, allowing private capital to be involved in public projects, which will contribute to the decommissioning of the budget in the future. First of all, it is the Public-Private Partnership Act, which aims to enable and accelerate private investment in the construction and management of public-private partnerships and other projects of public interest. For example, the law provides that a public partner for each project exceeding a certain budget value of EUR 5.3 million must assess whether it can be implemented as a public-private partnership. In addition to the Law on Public-Private Partnership, we have obtained a legal basis through the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport, which provides funding for the further development of railway infrastructure on the basis of public-private partnership. The involvement of private capital in the development of Slovenian rail infrastructure at the fifth and tenth levels and in the European rail corridor will be crucial for the budgetary burden in the coming years. The project, which is the largest medium to long-term investment project in our country, would be impossible to finance with only budgetary resources and activities are already under way to find the right private partner. The state budget balance will in no way affect the deficit of the wider sector and will remain, as I have already mentioned, at the projected level of up to 1.5% of GDP. The expenditure provided by the proposal for a rebalancing under the State budget was foreseen in the preparation of the budget for the public railway agency, which is one of the institutions of the wider sector of the country, which has been taken into account as such both in the preparation of the stability programme and in the preparation of the report on the deficit and debt of the country sector that have already been transmitted to the European Commission. It is therefore not a matter of taking on new commitments and new commitments, but rather of a more transparent presentation of the state of expenditure and indebtedness of the State in accordance with the legislation adopted. The impact of these additional expenditure in the national budget will be in line with the national methodology, as follows according to the cash flow methodology. The revenue of the State budget remains at the level of the budget adopted. The balance of the budget shall not change, change and remain at the level of the budget adopted. The fact is that realisation after the first six months shows relatively favourable trends on the revenue side, i.e. 46.6% of all projected revenue was realised in the first half of the year. With such favourable economic developments, the budget revenue can indeed be higher than currently foreseen, which will only further improve our public finances at the end of the year, which also means reducing the budgetary and therefore the overall deficit of the state sector. According to the proposal for a state budget rebalancing, the expenditure is €8148 million and will increase by €60.5 million compared to the revised budget for 2007. The only reason for the increase in expenditure is the change due to the inclusion of investments in rail infrastructure in the state budget. The second reason for the adoption of the 2007 budget rebalancing is the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and up to EUR 50 million is the preservation of the same share that the State has in NLB now, even after the purchase and accession of NLB Domžale, NLB Koroška Banka Zasavje and NLB Banka Zasavje, into the NLB home country, which will be a long-planned and yet unconsolidated consolidation of the bank. However, recapitalisation also allows for a strategically significant expansion to foreign markets. We estimate that NLB’s majority domestic ownership, as the largest bank in the Slovenian financial market, is at a time marked by a degree of uncertainty about the final legislative solutions in the field of banking supervision in the European Union, a key mechanism that allows the competent institutions in Slovenia to properly monitor and manage the financial stability of the domestic financial market in the long term. Ensuring the stability of the domestic banking sector as an integral part of the Slovenian and European financial system is one of the key responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia both to Slovenia and to the EU. Due to the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank on the purchase from the sale of the Slovenian steel industry in the balance sheet B of the State budget, i.e. in the financial claims and investments account, the capital share of the State in the NLB financial institutions is increasing to EUR 50 million. The proceeds from the sale of capital shares in the Slovenian steel industry amounting to EUR 104 million and from the sale of capital investments in the Triglav insurance company in accordance with the law of EUR 62 million will be used in accordance with the Public Finance Act to repay the debt. As a result, the level of debt with the State budget's balance sheet remains unchanged and remains at EUR 1,261 million. Taking into account the fact that the rebalancing does not provide for an increase in the revenue side of the state budget, those transactions will increase the government budget deficit by €60.5 million or 0.2% of GDP. This means that the government budget deficit will rise from the projected 1% to 1.2% of GDP. At this point, I would like to stress once again that in the proposal for a rebalancing, the revenue of the budget is indeed going to remain at the level of the budget adopted and that, with the continuation of such favourable economic movements, of course I believe, the revenue of the budget can indeed be higher than currently foreseen, which means that the public financial picture will only be further improved at the end of the year, which also means lower budgetary and thus the overall deficit of the state sector. The state of government budget debt will only be affected by the debt of the Railway Agency of 110.4 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. In addition, developments in the state budget debt after the 2007 state budget rebalancing, taking into account the government’s starting points for the preparation of the 2008 and 2009 state budget, show that the debt of the state budget as a percentage of GDP in 2007, 2008 and 2009, is expected to gradually decrease in line with the government’s adopted policy of gradually reducing the budgetary deficit and spending on the sale of the country’s capital shares by reducing that debt. Assuming projected economic growth, 4.7% of the spring economic forecast in 2007, prepared by UMAR, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, will represent 24.7% of GDP at the end of this year and will be reduced to around 23% of gross domestic product by the end of 2009. The State budget balance, and in particular the debt of the Railway Agency, will in no way affect the state of the entire debt of the country or the deficit of the wider sector of the country. We estimate that the deficit of the whole country sector, not just the budget, will not rise in 2007 and remain at a level of 1.5%. Investments in rail infrastructure and, consequently, the debt of AŽP have already been taken into account in the country's wider sector balance sheet. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to say a few words about the medium-term prospects of Slovenian public finances. The deficit in the consolidated balance sheets of four public finances based on cash flow will, indeed, increase slightly from 0.8% to 1.1% of GDP in 2006 this year. However, we must not forget that since 2004, it has been gradually decreasing since the beginning of this mandate and that its further reduction is also foreseen in 2008 and 2009. The public deficit was, for the first time in 2006, below one percent of gross domestic product or more than 3.5 times lower than the deficit in 2002 when it amounted to 2.9% of GDP. Once again, I would like to point out that the state budget balance will not affect the fiscal position of the country set out in the stability programme for the years 2007 to 2009, expressed in accordance with the ESA-95 methodology. As foreseen in this document, fiscal developments are mainly affected by tax reform aimed at improving the economic environment in Slovenia and investment in rail infrastructure, one of the government priorities that has been neglected in the past decades and also in the last decade. Slovenia is currently in a period of favourable macroeconomic conditions, to which it has also contributed with its own guidance in changing the tax system. The smooth introduction of the euro since 1 January 2007, which would not have been possible without good economic policy in recent years and the commitment of the social partners, has undoubtedly helped. Slovenia actually behaves during this government with record economic growth, which was 7.2% in the first quarter of this year, which is more than even expected by few optimists between us. Also the latest data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia on exports and imports for the month of May show that Slovenia exported €670,000 in May, which means 15.6% more than in May 2006. It is true that Slovenian inflation is higher than expected. Higher inflation can largely be attributed to rising food and oil prices. Thus, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, based on recent data on price developments, has already corrected the inflation forecast in 2007 from 2.5% to 3% on average. However, higher inflation this year does not pose a particular risk for the stability of the euro. The Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will maintain economic policies that do not contribute to inflation. Despite favourable trends forecasting high economic growth in 2007, the government will continue to insist on prudent fiscal policy planning. As in the 2006 and 2007 budget planning, the government will also plan the 2008 and 2009 budgets very carefully. This will allow it to carry out a tax reform without raising VAT rates, as announced by the Government last year when the 2008 budget was adopted in this National Assembly. As the deficit gradually declines, however, the ambition of the government's public policy is also reflected by the fact that we will be reduced to 2.4% of GDP by the wider sector between 2004 and 2008, according to the ESA 95 methodology. However, taking into account 2009 onwards, this means a further one percentage point, which means that revenue will be reduced by 3.4% of GDP in the period 2004-2009. Expenditure from the wider sector will fall from 47.4% of GDP in 2004, at the end of 2004, to 44% of GDP in 2008, representing 3% of GDP. Taking into account the planned expenditure in 2009, this will further reduce expenditure by 1.8% of GDP. Total expenditure of the wider sector would thus be reduced by 4.8% of GDP in the period 2004-2009. Allow me a few more sentences about the adoption of tax reform. When we decided on the changes in tax legislation in 2005 and 2006, we assessed, on the basis of the calculations made by the Institute's experts on economic research, that the final effects of the proposed tax changes would be positive for economic growth and increased investment, positive for increasing employment, positive in terms of higher welfare for all income groups. Today we find that this is actually the case. In addition to the 2005 amendments to the Income Act, which brought, among other things, the introduction of cedularity in the taxation of dividends, capital gains and interest, in 2006 brought about a further reduction in overprogress and an increase in general relief and thus lower taxation of citizens and citizens. However, there is a greater incentive for a more productive and creative part of the working population. The tax on paid salaries is gradually decreasing and will be definitively abolished with effect from 1 January 2009. This reduces the cost of labour in companies and increases the space to compensate for other increased costs or to increase profits and thus increases the potential for investing and increasing the economic activity of businesses. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Law on corporate income tax means the tax and administrative burden on companies and the elimination of double taxation. [[...]] The rate of tax is gradually decreasing. We believe that from the relief instruments we have introduced for research and development, which, according to the first figures for 2006, has increased by 25 times to give him the opportunity to make his own decisions on R & D resources and priorities, [[....]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] In this respect, the country will contribute to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. [[...]] What does all this mean? Firstly, to overcome the objective set by us in the coalition contract, this is a reduction in public financial expenditure in the proportion of GDP by 2 percentage points; I have already mentioned that we will achieve this by 3%. Secondly, that we will be in favour of changing the economy, which is a logical consequence of lowering the tax burden of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you, Minister. The draft budget balance was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone. At its 29th meeting, on 9.7., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the 2007 draft budget rebalancing. As usual, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was obtained, and we also received two proposals for an amendment, Mr Milan M. Cwickl. The introduction explained that the rebalancing is necessary in order to establish a Directorate for the Management of Public Railway Infrastructure Investments, which is the body of the Ministry of Transport, and for the necessary recapitalisation of Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d., on the one hand, to ensure the modernisation of the railway infrastructure and, on the other hand, to maintain the same ownership of the State in Nova Ljubljanska banka. The balance of the 2007 State budget will in no way affect the general government deficit of the country's wider sector, in particular through the proposal for a rebalancing provided under the State budget, has previously been provided for by the public Railway Agency as one of the institutions of the wider sector. Due to the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank on the purchase from the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, the capital share of the financial institutions in the financial statements and investments increased by EUR 50 million. The sale of capital shares by the Slovenian tree industry of EUR 104 million and the sale of capital investments by the Insurance Company Triglav of EUR 62 million will, however, be used for repayment of debts under the Public Finance Act. There were some questions and some comments at the debate itself. The debate lasted for quite some time. The ideas were that this 60 million euro difference should be saved in the budget in order to make it good because we have good economic growth conditions. There were also proposals and questions why it was necessary to recapitalise the Ljubljana Bank. After a broader discussion and after all the replies that have been submitted to the Committee itself, no addition has been adopted, and we therefore propose to the National Assembly that it consider and adopt a rebalance as set out in the original text published in Rapporteur No. 62 of 28.6.2007 Since I still have some time, I'd like to take another walk through the numbers of this year's rebalancing that's ahead of us. The revenues, as was said, remained the same, at the level of €7 billion 764 million, expenditure increased by €60 million to €540 thousand to €8 billion 148 000. It also increased the government budget deficit to EUR 383 million, or EUR 60 million to EUR 540 thousand. I would like to say that in the so-called B balance sheet of the state budget, in the financial claims and investments account, there has been a rebalancing of the projected increase in income from the sale of capital shares and the repayment of debts of EUR 166 million, which amounts to a new income component of this balance sheet of EUR 202 million. On the other hand, a reduction or increase in expenditure is planned in the balance sheet, or the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank and other investments in other public enterprises amounting to EUR 6 million is covered by an increase of EUR 56 million. Finally, there is a difference of €110 million. And that means that in this account, instead of the planned in the basic budget, minus 19 million euros, we now have 110 million euros plus in the new version. These are the numbers that we may have, especially since we have the euro, we can repeat them several times. I would only mention the warning given to the Committee that it is still too slow to draw on European funds. This warning seems to me to be in place, to be overcomplicated here, and to have fixed our expectations twice in the balance. We have foreseen 582 million Euros of revenue from this title this year, and [[...]] [[End warning sign]] This appropriation is intended to cover The difference is 265 million and we will have to make an effort to reach them. Once again, we propose to adopt the rebalancing in the form proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone, to the government and a nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues! The 2007 budget balance is based on organisational, status changes introduced by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport and the subsequent amendment of the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on Authorities in the composition of ministries. On the basis of that legal basis, a new body in the composition of the Ministry of Transport is formed into the Ministry of Transport in 2007, the Directorate for the Management of Investments of Public Railway Infrastructure, which assumes certain tasks and programmes in the field of rail transport carried out so far by the Public Railway Agency, while the latter assumes a new supervisory and security function. In view of the fact that financing, the maintenance of investment activities is transferred to the Ministry of Transport through the reform of the budget, it is also necessary to ensure the rights of expenditure for the financing, construction and maintenance of public railway infrastructure and to ensure own participation in projects co-financed by the EU, as the provisions of the guarantee law under the new organisational scheme become irrelevant. At the same time, transfers under the financial plan provide funds for salaries and material costs for the new organisational structure of the Ministry. We believe the project deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers and all the colleagues and colleagues! Today's changes to the 2007 state budget would certainly not be necessary if the previous governments devoted the necessary care to the maintenance and development of rail infrastructure and the proper organisation of companies and companies under this infrastructure system. The provision of data for the maintenance and development of rail infrastructure through the public Railway Agency in the past periods has not been systematically regulated by the debt of this Agency, since it did not have its own revenue from which it could in future repay loans on its own behalf and on its own account. The budget of the State has already had to, and should, take over the Agency's debts in the future and so subsequently show public expenditure. If previous governments had properly demonstrated this funding through the Railway Agency in the State budget, today they would have a more appropriate structure or basis in the budget to demonstrate and cover the current expenditure. Changes in the presentation of such expenditure in the State budget should therefore also take place in the case of previous organisations and not only on the basis of recent amendments to the Rail Transport Act. Secondly, the question is whether in the 2007 financial year, with the aim of urgently increasing expenditure for the maintenance and development of railway infrastructure, could reduce any other types of expenditure, such as through additional savings, in order not to increase the budget deficit. Members of Parliament are assuming that the Government has examined these options, but it has not found them. Higher economic growth in the first half of 2007 has not yet ensured that even higher budgetary revenues can be foreseen by means of a rebalancing. We must take into account the need to verify on the actual data what the actual effects of the tax burden on taxpayers in the 2007 budget are or will be. If economic growth by the end of 2007 makes it possible to achieve higher budgetary revenues than planned, the government will certainly reduce the projected increase in the budget deficit now. As we increase public spending, that is, our spending and budget deficits on financing the development of rail infrastructure, which has been neglected for decades and will serve not only the present but also the next generation, we must also respect the principle of intergenerational solidarity. Financing investments that will also serve future generations in the burden of public debt is allowed, or otherwise, in accordance with the budgetary theory or budgetary principle of intergenerational solidarity. It would be unfair for today's generation to reduce, for example, social transfers in the budget at the expense of the successful development of future generations by means of new railway infrastructures funded at that time. Of course, Members expect that the competent and responsible ministries, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance, will find solutions as soon as possible to minimise financing for the development of rail infrastructure at the burden of the state budget. This is a solution for the inclusion of private capital in this large infrastructure project in the form of a strategic co-owner or in the form of a public-private partnership. And also regarding the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. In the SDS Group proposed recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, up to a maximum of EUR 50 million, we do not understand the introduction of state capitalism nor as an act which would mean permanent preservation of the majority ownership of the State in the New Ljubljana Bank. This recapitalisation is seen as a necessary act at present to ensure the development or growth of the New Ljubljana Bank in foreign markets, to maintain the current ownership relationship between the largest owners or to establish an optimal ownership structure that will enable these development objectives to be achieved. The recapitalisation will allow not only for the current nominal increase in the value of the capital of the New Ljubljana Bank, but also for the good operation and management of its long-term increase in value. Notwithstanding the proposed recapitalisation, the possibility remains for the Government or later governments to adopt a different policy or decision - to reduce its share of capital in the New Ljubljana Bank, taking into account the favourable overall development of the banking system in the country. And then, just as today, it will be possible to reduce public debt from the proposed recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. With the added value of today's recapitalisation, €50 million will not be lost. In view of the above, we support the proposed budget balance for 2007 in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u115	Good day to all, Members, Members of Parliament, Mr President, representatives of the Government. I regret that the President of the Government is no longer available to hear the opposition's opinion on good performance, on the achievement of the main objectives, on the austerity of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and on the restructuring of the state budget. It was kind of his main themes. And I will speak about this myself in the position of the Social Democracy Group. Let me say that the Social Democracy Group will not support the proposal for a rebalancing because we estimate that there are no reasons for a rebalancing. If the thesis is true, and this thesis was presented at the celebration that Slovenia has performances, why two days after the celebration - a rebalancing which increases the budget deficit. If economic growth is so high, why increase the gap in the budget register? This is Mr. Janez Janš's second rebalancing. The first rebalancing in 2005 was allegedly because they got a hole from the previous government. For this rebalancing, it can be found that this government has been spinning its own hole. If amendments were adopted at the end of 2005 on the draft budget for 2007 or in November 2006 for amending the 2007 budget, which proposed an increase in the appropriations for rail transport, for co-financing of European programmes, a rebalancing would not be necessary today. That's when you coalition MPs rejected it. If Mr Andrej Bajuk spoke more meaningfully with the owners of the New Ljubljana Bank, it would not be necessary to introduce state capitalism into Slovenia today by recapitalising public money. Therefore, somehow they do not go together good performance and rebalancing according to the emergency procedure. The other thing that is worth commenting on is the achievement of the so-called main objectives. With this rebalancing, the budgetary deficit of the state budget increases and from the surplus, from an adequate surplus of income and expenditure, when we deduct interest from them, we go to a deep hole. Out of two million Euros plus this balance, we create 55 million Euros of holes in the state budget. And together for a little more, because the government has decided to do so. At a time when budget deficits are halved across the European Union with lower economic growth, the average of the eurogroup countries, according to the June report, is a reduction from 2.5 to 1%, Germany has managed to reduce from 3.2 minus to 1.6, Slovenia is increasing the budget deficit and increasing the so-called deficit of public finances according to the principle of payable realisation. We have here had some exhibition of the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, who have carried out that there is nothing by European principles for the worse, but given how much we are actually taking from taxpayers and how much we are going to spend, it is clear that spending is increasing and that the hole is larger. The President of the Government also properly presented these figures, but at the outset, the Minister said there was no change, and then he had to point out what the methodologies had told him that if he applied the domestic methodology, the hole was larger. The President of the Government also said that there were minimal changes to the balance sheet. We can agree on this if we understand the recognition of the opposition's formerly rejected amendments to the Ministry of Transport as a minimum change. And if we were to be very honest, if this government were to be cost-effective, there would be no need for this rebalancing at all. There is a law and this law is a direct basis for the inclusion of both the new directorate and these items. What is new and which is why a balance is needed in substance these days, because these days the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank of a Shareholder Society is, of course, the introduction of state capitalism. First, it is necessary to say that the Government says that half of the EUR 100 million purchase from the sale of the Slovenian steel industry will be allocated to the Russian buyer for the New Ljubljana Bank, a shareholder company. If you walk on this customer's website, you will see a 3 March 2007 line saying that they bought the Slovenian steel industry for 300 million euros, for more than 300 million euros. The question is where the 200 million euro disappeared. After the government has received this EUR 100 million, it is after 51 years to recapitalise a private society with 50 million taxpayers, contrary to the logic of capitalism, which, of course, we have in Slovenia primarily with the logic of the private sector. In 1956, we established municipal banks in our former country. That's the last time the state bank's money recapitalised. Only in 1992-1994, when we defended money savers in Nova Ljubljanska banka, then Ljubljanski banka d.d. and Maribor Credit Bank has recapitalised these two banks by intervention. So, we were defending the money from the savers. What are we defending now? We defend and prevent Banka Domžalje, Banka Zasavje, from becoming shareholders of New Ljubljana Bank in the same way as those of previously connected banks. We have heard a few discussions on the parent's working body about how they walk around the emissaries and offer three times the book value of buying up these shares. In order to make the purchase of these shares possible, Mr Bajuk, together with KBC as co-owner, could still decide what this bank should invest, so today we are recapitalising the New Ljubljana Bank with a rebalance sheet. I don't know what we're going to do next spring when the situation is exactly the same. €50 million in banking is sufficient for 2 to 3 months of credit activity. Will this now mean that, on the Committee on the Finances of Mr Starman, we will also consider decisions that will use this money from Slovenian taxpayers? Therefore, of course, there is a large and wrong change in this balance sheet that we are taking money from the sale of the Slovenian steel industry in order to recapitalise the New Bank of Ljubljana. The government will have to explain in very detail, and I suppose Minister Bajuk has been able to explain to his colleagues at Ecofin how we are now going to state capitalism by recapitalising the New Ljubljana Bank. The fourth point referred to by the President of the Government is the so-called restructuring of the state budget. He said they were trying. First, at the end of the previous government's term of office, we had a share of 44.1% of GDP and that the Prime Minister had previously said that after this rebalancing, the percentage of public spending would be 44.3 in 2007. Deployment. However, if we look at the internal structure, it is necessary to say that in 2007 an important part of the money is foreseen for EU extraction. And since this money is much more than it was in 2004, it would be right to make the hole lower first, it would be right to make the tax burden really lower. However, the tax burden, of course you can look at the tax data of legal persons, is increasing in the Republic of Slovenia. The so-called day of tax freedom is also being extended. And we didn't calculate this in the opposition, this was calculated by journalists and analysts themselves. The Bank of Slovenia also points out that there is no restructuring. The EU also says that if other countries restructure this way, why Slovenia has its medium-term objective under the stability programme set for 2007 at the beginning of this government's mandate, the year later to 2008, and now the stability programme previously referred to by the Minister of Finance has been postponed to 2009. A few months ago, I asked the President of the Government how the measures would ensure that the deficit in 2009 would indeed remain at 1% because, when the tax on paid wages was reduced and the consumption associated with the presidency, railways and so on, it would increase to 3% without measures of 2% of GDP. Mr President of the Government said that this was not simply true, after the EU's Communication had come, which said: We invite the Republic of Slovenia to explain exactly how it will achieve its deficit in 2009 1%. Well, 2009 is already the year of the new mandate, and I have said several times that this will be one tougher year because Janša's period will be lifted and commitments to the European Union will have to be fulfilled. Therefore, the restructuring of the state budget is one of the fundamental levers to be used and is not applicable. There is no government mandate to restructure the state budget. Let's take a look at this unfortunate balance. If only 0.7% of Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were to reduce spending, including the National Assembly, 0.7% is 60 million out of 8 billion and that is 0.7%. If everyone were to cut spending by 0.7%, from the President of the Republic, the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court to, if you wanted a trial, there would be no balance. Of course, it is necessary to have, as some say, some will, so it is necessary to have a finance minister who goes to the President of the Government and says, "Look, Prime Minister, I have a problem with these unfortunate railways. We foolishly rejected the amendments, but now we have a law, this law requires this spending. I propose measures in accordance with legislation and there is no need for a rebalancing." The government didn't do this. She didn't do that restructuring. What did the government do? The government comes to the National Assembly and says, increase consumption. And with high economic growth, with increasing inflation, of course, we can talk about the reasons why this inflation is, of course, the wrong move of the Government to increase the gap. Wrong move. This is what everyone is talking about: experts, members of the Strategic Council, former members of the Strategic Council, and I don't know, the second or third president of the Strategic Council has even resigned. He resigned because he felt that it would be right for the so-called necessary adaptation of Slovenia to do something before 2009 during the period and during the time of the mandate of this Government. That was his basic statement. That is why, of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this rebalance is unnecessary, that the Government has shown once again with this rebalancing that it will not do enough in the area of public finances to have negative effects both on economic growth and on inflation growth. The high-indebted economic growth, with an increasing budget deficit, will fall under the so-called debt limits. By the way, we recapitalise NLB, d.d., just so that NLB, d.d., can continue to run certain debts. If we didn't do this, there'd be another problem. Secondly, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all ministries continue to operate dangerously this year, because obviously there is no desire to save, inflation pressures will increase. This has an impact on the given wages and can affect the high pressure on the labour market, and this is what foreign experts are alerting us to. And I have a feeling that our government won't be able to hold you. We will be able to discuss further the details of individual points below. Again, the Group of Social Democrats does not object to an increase in funds for railways, we have proposed such amendments, they have been rejected, but we think it is wrong to do this with a balance. It is wrong to introduce state capitalism after 51 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u117	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the rest of the Minister and colleague! I must say that it was a pleasure to look earlier at this site on which the President of the Government himself sat with his secretary and secretary, with ministers, and I thought that even this National Assembly was given the attention of ministers to listen to something. Apparently, they've told each other what they already know, and they've left, and we're talking to those who don't know if they'll be able to handle it or if the ministers want to hear what we're saying. I express my dissatisfaction with this attitude of the President of the Government and especially of Minister Bajuk, whom we have already missed on the Committee on Finance, and at that time we have seen that we would like him to sit with us. It is just as it seems, and we will, as it seems, have to endure until the end of our term of office. Members of the LDS Club did not surprise the Government's decision to put the 2007 Budget Balance in the parliamentary procedure, as we knew, and this is confirmed that the Government had unrealisticly planned public spending in amending the 2007 budget. The budget balance is made mainly due to the amendment of the Rail Transport Act, which transferred the public service obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to the state budget for the financing of projects carried out under the Investment Programme co-financed by the European Union and investments for the development and maintenance of public rail infrastructure to ensure safety in rail transport. It's all right up here. The 2007 and 2008 budgets did not provide for these funds, and the Government considers that this year the budget balance is required. That's what the government says. We say otherwise. The LDS, when adopting a rebalancing or amending the 2007 budget and in the 2007 budget, proposed that at least part of the investment activity in rail infrastructure be provided directly from the budget, since, for the first time, this resource, which is cheaper than the debt and for the second time, would not be needed today as a consequence of the rebalancing. However, there has been a rejection, as usual, of the opposition's amendments, which is why we are meeting with this document today. In this transfer of liabilities resulting from the transfer of funds from the Agency to the budget, it is particularly important to stress that the transfer of all former investment activities from the Agency is taking place too slowly, with many complications, complaints from employees, without the appointed Director to date, i.e. with everything that undermines the operational power of the Directorate. We therefore doubt that this direction is able to implement 32 projects or tasks that are the basis for the transfer of funds to the budget this year. Similarly, the Government, which is eager to boast - and we have heard before - with high economic growth and with appropriate and appropriate economic results, would expect it to reduce the public financial deficit in this situation and to start thinking about the developmental orientation of the budget, i.e. the long term of this orientation, as greater economic growth also means greater public financial revenues. During the period of high economic growth, savings should therefore be created and the public financial deficit corrected. Of course, if the government were to think about the future. Instead, the Government is also increasing the budget deficit through these measures. Many experts in public finances point out the problem of the government’s public financial policy. This is why we would like to recall Dr Momir Dark's statement, which stated that in Slovenia, in the period of fat cows, there is a relative failure to reduce budgetary spending and consequently the budgetary deficit, then, during the period of dry cows, when facing low levels of economic growth, it will be exposed to an increased public financial risk, as the inflatable expenditure will thus not be significantly reduced when the country faces a decline in economic growth. This, of course, could lead to a rapid increase in the budget deficit. The experience of many countries clearly shows that following the decline in economic growth, there is usually not the same rapid decline in public consumption. Unfortunately, this Government is acting the other way around, does not listen to the recommendations, and according to our opinion, Slovenia is walking on the path of Portugal, which has wasted its favourable economic situation with non-discipline in the implementation of fiscal policy. The requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact are clear. In a phase of favourable economic growth, the deficit needs to be reduced. The government has set it at an unambitious 1% of GDP. The proposal for a rebalancing proposal is therefore a pro-cyclical proposal which is therefore inconsistent with the basic fiscal policy recommendations for euro area countries. This does not contribute to maintaining the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy over the medium term and thus reduces the possibility of favourable economic growth in the coming years. The financial ministers have committed themselves to the ambitious implementation of the budgetary objectives. Among them was our finance minister, Mr Bajuk. Unfortunately, these promises are not to be felt and seen today. Let us also recall that Mr Bajuk, President of the opposition NSI in the 2004 electoral programme, promised the voters that he would reduce the tax burden on the population and the economy. Today, Minister Bajuk forgets that his party received electoral support in 2004 also because of promises of a fundamental reduction of taxes, as the opposition MP was then bitterly advocating. Moreover, the first state financier today does not want to know anything about the fact that in the New Slovenia electoral programme in 2004 he promised on the public expenditure of voters: "We believe that public spending is too extensive and that it must be reduced to 35% of GDP in the long term." We have previously heard from the Prime Minister or Minister Bajuk that this will be reduced from the current 46.3% in 2009 by about 4% and a few percent, which means that it will still be at 42%, which is far from reaching 35%. Of course, what they thought in this long term would be interesting to hear now from Minister Bajuk. It appears that Slovenia and the Slovenian government have also given up anti-inflation policy, as UMAR has publicly announced inflation, significantly different from expected, without the publication of any anti-inflation measure. Spring projections, according to our opinion, would not have to be adapted as the single effects would be neutralized and neutralized over the next year. In the LDS, we assume that the reason for raising inflation forecasts may be that the state intends to continue to increase excise duties and because of poor projections of the impact of the liberalisation of the electricity market. The 2007 budget rebalancing also disputes the use of NLB recapitalisation assets by LDS members of the sales of NLB to the Slovenian steel industry. First, because we believe that the real revenue of the budgets will actually be higher than planned and this could be a source for the recapitalisation of NLB, and secondly, because we believe that within the budget it is to reduce the consumption of certain budgetary consumers or items and thus reduce public spending, and lastly because we have not yet received an answer to the question whether all, i.e. small shareholders, will participate in the recapitalisation, or whether the recapitalisation will be carried out in a closed manner only with privileged shareholders. All that has been said in our presentation is that this failed public financial policy of the LDS Government cannot convince it to support the 2007 budget rebalancing proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, ministers with co-workers. Messengers and Members! In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate consistent respect for all legislation in the field of public finances. We are confident that this will only ensure adequate transparency in accordance with the principles of modern democracy and accountability in the management of public funds. As set out in the Public Finance Act, the government may propose a rebalancing due to the emergence of new commitments to the budget. The basic principle of the law is that the budget shows all revenue belonging to the State and all expenditure incurred by the State for individual purposes. A prerequisite for the quality of budget implementation is good budget preparation. The greatest danger in the implementation of the budget is the under-adaptability of budgetary expenditure to the macroeconomic environment and the overestimation of revenue and under-estimation of expenditure in the preparation of the budget. The Minister responsible for finance does not propose a rebalancing proposal because of the ill-planned situation and not because of poor planning. On the contrary. The proposal for a rebalancing in the financial receivables and investments account shows an increase in the assets generated by the sale of capital shares, and precisely because the increase is shown only now that it is actually realised, the budget is fairly shown. Two ministers, in a proper assessment of the value of the Triglav Insurance Company, now that the correctness of its decision to suspend the procedure is confirmed, the budget balance shows a 50 million euro increase in acquired purchases. The proposed rebalancing is therefore not a reflection of the changed macroeconomic situation, but is submitted to the National Assembly for two basic reasons: the establishment of a Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investment and the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to note that the level of income will remain the same despite the reduced tax obligations of both natural and legal persons. In the April number of the Economic Mirror, we can find data that income from income paid under the new Income Act is actually lower by 3.7%. In addition, as a result of the further reduction in the tax on paid wages, the revenue provided for in this Title decreased by 15.8% over a period of three months compared to the same period last year. Although the current revenue of the budget is falling in real terms, the government has not decided to raise VAT despite some forecasts. If the balance sheet is adopted, the general government deficit will not change. However, the government budget deficit will increase by €6.5 million or 0.2% of GDP. In international comparisons, the Slovenian public financial deficit remains strong below the average. In dealing with the balance sheet, it should also be noted that there is a movement of public finances, after which public expenditure will be reduced by 4.4% between 2005 and 2009, and by 3.9%. The government is clearly leading a policy of reducing public spending, and in addition, it is reducing taxes, thus contributing to a better economic situation and improving competitiveness. This is also the reason why we will support the proposal for a rebalancing in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u121	Dear Vice President, Ministers, Secretary of State! Any changes in the budget already have a negative effect, as it is usually an additional burden and not a burden on the budget, but we must be aware that the development and long-term benefits of the economy also require positive changes based on the current situation. The preparation of the 2007 budget rebalancing was the result of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act and the necessary recapitalisation of Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. The Railway Agency, which has so far funded the construction and modernisation of public railway infrastructure, has been given a supervisory and security function and the Ministry of Transport has set up a Directorate for the Management of Public Railway Infrastructure Investments. Since financing for the maintenance of investment activities in rail transport with changes to the law is transferred to the Ministry of Transport or to the Directorate for the Management of Investments in Public Railway Infrastructure, it makes sense to ensure that resources can be spent for these purposes in a rebalanced manner. The additional appropriations from the budget will thus enable the Ministry of Transport to use these resources for investment purposes and to maintain the railway infrastructure that requires major updates due to poor conditions. Surely we all want changes in the direction of improving and modernising transport networks in our country. It would also be an important priority to facilitate participation in EU projects on integration into the European transport network. Members of the Slovenian People's Party see in these changes the possibilities for speeding up the necessary updates and remediation of our railway network. This decision is long-term and in terms of consequences it is not a loss of funds. Members of the SLS Group believe that changes need to be looked at in the long term and from a development perspective. On the one hand, the rebalancing makes it possible to modernise railway infrastructure and, on the other hand, to maintain the same ownership stake in the New Ljubljana Bank. These are the reasons and, above all, for these reasons, we welcome this budget balance and will support it in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The 2007 proposal for the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia does not provide for any changes on the revenue side, from which it can be concluded, with favourable economic growth indicators, that the budgetary revenues in the current budget have been overestimated in view of the economic growth forecast used. The proposal for a rebalancing of the budget justifies its need solely with questionable legal changes in the field of rail transport or, consequently, with the transfer of certain tasks from the public railway agency to the newly established Directorate for the Management of Public Railway Infrastructure Investments. This argument is, at first glance, logical and even acceptable and, in fact, shows the Government's uncoordinated functioning, as there were no objective reasons why amendments to rail legislation could not be brought into line with the financial year. In doing so, it should be noted that the legal time limits are not respected, that the conditions for the operation of the new Directorate for the Management of Public Railway Infrastructure Investments are regulated and that there is a dilemma on its absorption capacity. In any event, the time frame for dealing with the 2007 budget balance is inappropriate, in view of the formal alignment of the budget with the amended sectoral rail legislation, the only reason for the proposal to justify the need for a rebalancing is certainly too late. In view of the assessment of the implementation of the budget, which the Ministry or Government is obliged to prepare by the end of July, it is premature. The proposal did not make use of all available instruments provided by the legislation in order to avoid the unnecessary rebalancing of the State budget at this time. It is not acceptable in the substantive sense of the rebalancing. First of all, because it increases the budget deficit in the context of the economic developments, even though it is at the expense of the necessary investments in railway infrastructure for which other financial resources should be engaged, while at the same time unexplained and unacceptable reductions in the European Union's donations. If the applicant does not wish or is unable to reduce the budget deficit with more than 7% of economic growth, how will he be able to do so when this growth is significantly lower. Secondly, since the applicant is, by the way, investing in the sale of the Slovenian steel industry for the recapitalisation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, although the bank is capital-appropriate and is similar to those currently planned, it has made in the past without recapitalisation. Thirdly: because part of the asset is earmarked for unknown capital investments. In view of the above, in our Group of Members, we estimate that at a given time the budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia is unnecessary and unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u125	Your Honors are here! Today, in the context of the introductory explanation given by the President of the Government, we have heard, at least after my assessment, some words or phrases that at least Members and Members of Parliament could have witnessed at the time of the last replies to the questions. The only slightly more concrete presentation of the budget balance, i.e. the correction of the budget, was presented by the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk. From this place I would like to point out, above all, those who, after my assessment of the hurtful parables used by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, address the National Assembly and the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, the conclusion in his introductory address [[Quote]] "Employment is growing. This year, for the first time, we have witnessed 19% reduction in the unemployed, and for the third time, inflation, the flow of macroeconomic or monetary events, is dependent and results mainly from two factors, firstly, the prices of oil derivatives on the world market and secondly, the particular trend in prices on the world market." In doing so, allow me to touch, in particular, the first conclusion of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Janez Janša, for the start of these favourable macroeconomic forecasts. Thus, 19% reduction in the unemployment register of the Government or the State, the Republic of Slovenia, which keeps records of unemployed persons. A few days ago, more specifically, three days ago, we were out of the register, talking about the role of the country, the Republic of Slovenia, we deleted more than 700 unemployed. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have not removed them because unemployed persons would find employment, proper work, whatever work they do, but the country, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has removed them from the register because of the so-called new criteria that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always justified under a directive or any other term resulting from membership in the European Union. So the fact is that the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, either lied or, secondly, did not know the matter. The fact is that unemployment is not actually falling, but is being reduced exclusively technically, because so-called unemployed persons are being reclassified within our country, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. From this title, Mr Janez Janša is lying or does not know when he is talking about raising employees in our country because they are taking the framework simple statistical method, the method of deduction. If after the calculation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia there has been a 19% reduction in the unemployment rate, the President of the Government takes from this title that there has been such an increase in employment or a percentage increase in employment. The fact is that, at least according to my assessment, data should not be presented in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, except in front of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, allow me to point out that, in my opinion, one of the more important and frightening facts is that according to official data, even 64% of the population, i.e. the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, are directly or indirectly connected with social transfers. However, consideration should be given to scholarships or different compensations should be taken into account. From this title, we find it completely unacceptable that someone is talking about the so-called success of this area in the most important public financial act that we are considering within our country. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you, the Slovenian National Party has reported a debate of 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u126	Mr. Pece, I've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u127	From this title, I would like to point out the following inaccuracies, inaccuracies or, rather, in my opinion, lies to the President of the Government who is trying to show the situation differently than it is. Allow me to expose later, when we have the rest of the time available, these, in my opinion, are the greatest inaccuracies and inadequacies towards our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'm a good-bye! When someone turns Erica over to us for the tenth or twelfth time, I guess it still sounds good to everyone. But when someone is constantly disassociating both the Government and the President of the Government with the same tone, it doesn't sound very benevolent to the ears. And it would probably be wise to think about what the debates and what they have in mind and what it is just an attempt to desaguise. Sometimes I get the feeling, today it was just like having two mirror images in front of us, and it's like there's nothing in between. It's like there's only one thing or just the other. Today it was even in the way that I had the impression that I was in formal logic exercises. When it was said, if the government were to do this, then it would be so if the government were to do this, then it would be. But we must understand that the government does not have the same C as the opposition. And if the Cs are different, then the conclusions are different. And if it were so simple that development and budget could only be formally logical, then it would be really easy. But in principle it's something completely different, it's about creating, it's about trying to adapt, it's about trying to find good new solutions, including new Cs, so new assumptions. And, of course, it is good to admit that we sometimes miss. But there can't be any mistakes, and I'm not going to explain why not. The 7-hour debates announced are likely to be inversely proportional, with the importance required after these discussions, with the scope and depth of amending the budget, so that I ensure that the DeSUS Group, which will support this proposal for a rebalancing, will not be particularly involved in the follow-up process. This fear of this, I would say, seems to be unnecessary, long and inflamed debate may be justified, because we have experienced this before on the working body and because there are always one and the same arguments, so that sometimes it could be written that, because I know what some people have been saying for the sixth time, for the seventh or for the tenth time, I could represent their position. And I don't think there's gonna be much effect on that. Of course, such budgetary discussions are an opportunity to assess what was good, what was bad, what was bad, what was needed to be changed and what was not. It would have been better if not only the current numbers, which were a few days old, focused on thinking about trends, about long-term trends and about the trends for why they are what they are, but it shows that we do not have the will. For in-depth discussion and listening, we are also delighted in the Desus Group to talk about what structural changes in the budget are needed and are needed, according to our judgment. In order to talk about whether there is sufficient developmental orientation or whether there is a need to increase it, we also agree that this needs to be increased. We agree that we need to reconsider whether we are adequately saving or not. We also agree that there is a need to increase social sensitivity, which in our debates is only a declaration, only for performance, and that is not always the case in decisions. And in the DeSUS Group, we are confident that the real debate on this will only take place after the next elections. We now expect to experience radical, structural changes in the last year of this mandate, this is probably not a legitimate expectation, and it is unlikely that bringing the debate into this direction is entirely inappropriate. The fact that we have a proposal for a rebalancing ahead of us has been presented several times only to say that the DeSUS Group has supported investment in the modernisation of rail infrastructure, as it has so far supported the transaction. And in doing so, the source, which is so challenged, does not particularly upset us. Perhaps we should do more and ask more questions about the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, and we have also raised some questions about this and admit that we are not yet quite clear on what we are actually dealing with today. We didn't get enough determined answers. But I am sure that it was in the temptation of the government to decide, too, when it thought about how to align its proposal with what is enshrined in the coalition contract and where it says how to limit the political impact on corporate governance. And when she wondered how to keep her influence, as she wrote it down, in key companies, so that things wouldn't go away. So the real question is, where is this right measure? And probably this right measure is also being sought in the long run, and not only within the current budget, which is now being rebalanced. We are also convinced that it would be good to follow any further directions or reminders from the Legal and Legal Service, which we very much like when we do not like it most. We also agree with those who talk about saving. But when we talk about saving, we have to ask ourselves who's going to save, how they're going to save, where they're going, where they're going. Let me remind you that there have been a number of savings requirements in recent times, and it is explicitly stated that social expenditure in particular should be saved. DeSUS's emissary group will not be included in such strict savings in the field of social transfers or pensions. We're going to oppose that. But we are to save ourselves in a different way, to think more developmentally, that something in the future is actually being restructured within the budget, but this is not the subject of the debate on this balance that we have in mind now. So let me just say that we will support this proposal for a rebalancing, knowing that it could be different, but we could have two, three, four, five different versions, but this was chosen and offered by the Government and managed to achieve, so at least we judge, enough consensus to make it happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. As individual parts are counted: for the first time, the general part of the budget rebalancing proposal, for the second time, a specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal and for the third time, a development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? The application for discussion shall be open. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings for both ministers with a team and a Member and a Member of Parliament! The general part has 7 pages and since the railway problem is mentioned on the five sides, let me say something about railways at this stage, which is related to the entire composition of the rebalancing. The fact is that our railways have been resting for the last 60 years, so it is high time to devote and give them more money to update them and to extend them, and that is the key fact that I will not personally oppose the rebalancing. The question is whether the path that this Government has gathered is the path of borrowing and the path of increasing expenditure in the state budget and in other words, and this has been repeatedly mentioned in the media, whether it is meaningful and good in terms of the current favourable economic situation of our country, to increase budgetary deficits. I can't do better here than to quote some distinguished economists who have the answer to this question quite uniformly. In fact, everyone's saying that this method isn't good, it's not good, it's not good. I'll quote, start with your former colleague, Minister Jozet Damian of the Faculty of Economics. He says: "Increasing the budget deficit with such a large economic growth can be afforded either by incompetent finance ministers or by governments that do not intend to rule another mandate and care little about the long-term stability of the economy, but want only to take care of their personal interests and friends," he concludes. I'll point out that's his quote, not mine. The other one. Janez Šuštersič, Umar, quote: "One of the tasks of fiscal policy is to mitigate cyclical fluctuations in the economy, that means that the additional revenue generated by excessively large economic growth must not be spent on deficits, to increase current expenditure. From this point of view, therefore, an increase in the deficit can only make sense during a period of small economic growth, but, of course, in assessing the adequacy of fiscal policy, it is necessary to take into account the overall public finances not only of the budget", the end of the quote. Third expert, Marjan Cvetlicič, from the FDV. I quote: "It's like solar collectors when the sun shines, you accumulate when it's rain, and you use pre-accumulated electricity. So when the economic situation is good, the deficit should not be reduced. I do not see any exceptions to such rules, especially since the global conjuncture that is beginning to dry has greatly contributed to a good situation." Finally, Mr Križanič, from the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, quote again: "In view of the current economic situation of the public financial deficit, it is not, in principle, meaningful to increase. If I understand correctly, it is a problem for us to finance the development project, which is the modernisation of the Slovenian Railways. Here there will no doubt have to be a public private partnership, which I hope will not look like the sale of Slovenian railways to German railways." So much for the words of other experts. Now there is something concrete about railways that represent one of the key aspects of the current balance. The fact is, the rebalancing is not the only way to better infrastructure. We probably all agree here. And for example, I can mention Croatia. As you know, Croatia is also trying to outrun us in this area on the right with the construction of the railway River - Hungary and, as I know, they have decided on a concessionaire who is supposed to be using European credits, i.e. with a European loan without a State guarantee, to do so. The question is whether we have considered this possibility carefully enough. I know it's easier said than done in practice, but still, there is a dilemma. In addition, some experts point out that it may be quite coincidental that the time of the rebalancing coincides with the negotiations with Deutsche Ban. The negotiations in which Deutsche Ban is supposed to be co-owner of a new logistics holding company in which our railways would be located and Inter-Europe, Luka Koper, perhaps there is another organisation and the question is whether Slovenia should so favour this investor that it is already paying him to be willing to talk about this logistics project in the first place. I'm not saying it's bad to attract foreign capital. Years ago, we discussed how we would attract Bavaria, for example, to the construction of our corridors. But not for the price, not least, of our national pride, or even the negotiating base that we have. And here is the problem, in general, of European funds. My question is, "What does it mean that the European Fund contribution is declining in the balance?" At the same time, we know that in these years we have not been able to spend even the good €5.5 million that have been earmarked for the construction of the second track. If I recall correctly, I am writing here that by 2020 some €9 billion should have been invested in railways, of which about half of the countries, about half of the public-private partnership, are already alerted by some economists, but only €350 million from European funds is said to be cohesion funds and other resources, i.e. less than 4%. And here, of course, I ask, is it really not possible to squeeze more out of this European monsoon? Are we really going to get into a situation where we're just a mercenary and not a beneficiary of these funds? I welcome the information that Minister Christmas himself will personally oversee the use of these funds and the construction of infrastructure. I also welcome the announcement that the second track should be reached by 2015, and I also welcome the fact that, at least so provided, I believe that there is no longer any danger that, for example, the Italians will either outrun us or even destroy our fifth corridor, or, finally, even the future European Member of Croatia with this new infrastructure, the connection between Croatia and Hungary and the railway. But as a matter of fact, these issues exist as to how funds are provided. As I have already said at the beginning, I cannot and will not oppose the rebalancing unless otherwise, because I want the second track completed as soon as possible and the fifth corridor will come to life as soon as possible in the railway area, thus allowing Slovenia this endless logistical potential which it has because of the fact that the 10th and 5th trans-European corridors cross in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I would argue that they are both financial and economic policies, and today we are talking about this, which is led by this Government, obviously not only good, but extremely good. According to the results shown, the work of this government is clearly slightly different from that of the previous governments, which has been successfully different from those of the previous ones. Then it's also understandable that this rebalancing is also slightly different from the previous, because we had amendments for, I don't know, 2 kilograms of paper. Of course, it is a different general part of this balance, but of course the approaches identified are important. An important question is, can we even be indebted, for example, to railways that are mentioned and that need to be renovated in Slovenia? Allow me, however, to answer this question or to continue to be in debt, to answer with firmness. Of course, I'm not saying it headlessly, but in some sense. I would like to substantiate this claim with a few numbers, because otherwise it remains at the verbal level. Today, data from the European Statistical Office of Eurostat have been published saying that gross domestic product has increased by 0.7% in the European Union and 2.2% in Slovenia, in the first quarter of the last quarter of the year. One piece of data, but interesting is this one: "At the annual level, Slovenia recorded 7.5% growth in gross domestic product." This is one of the highest in the European Union, of course, behind us are all those countries that are our target, such as Belgium - 2,9, the Netherlands - 2.5, Denmark and Italy - 2.3, France 1.9%, still less. These are our target countries, and such a difference in social product growth we will catch up with these countries, even though they have a lower percentage on a higher basis we are still ahead of them. The following information is very interesting: "Export increased by 4.8% in the quarter." Again, of all the countries of the European Union most in Slovenia. This is said to be accumulating from the outside, because we know that if there's only accumulation at home, then we can run out of money. This is said to be exceptional compared to the European Union. The European Union, we know, is not a third-rate group of countries where we would already be the best, but it is probably one of the most difficult groups and if Slovenia is so well located here, then I can answer positively the question of whether we can still be in charge, especially when it comes to railways. But I'd like to remind you of something else. In 2005, after Umar's first announcement on economic indicators, since the new Government came forward; that was 4 months after the Government took over the helm; our fellow Member, Mr Rop, in the context of the parliamentary questions, asked how, what happens, that growth is only 2.5%, and that this is certainly due in the negative sense of poor government, poor governance, what has been said about catastrophic conditions, four months after the government took over power. What about today, two and a half years after this government took over, we have a 7.5% growth in gross domestic product, not to mention all the other numbers. What about today, does this government have any merit? Even more, it is said that this is the result of a European conjuncture, that the European train passes by and just had to enter. Now let me ask you a different question. Why didn't you then jump on this train, which is growing 7% year-on-year, but you were only on the 3%, or did you not want Slovenia well, or did you not want Slovenia to have better results, or did you not want Slovenia to be less unemployed in Slovenia to be more export growth and that all this data would be better? Why didn't you jump on that train? And today you're saying the train's driving. And that government jumped up. That is to say, in your opinion, this government was at least so much that it seemed worth jumping on this train, and you didn't want it. That's one look at this. And I would say that the statistics, which I have quoted and which some others have quoted, are just the same as in all the countries of the European Union. We have mainly taken over these statistical methods, such as those in Europe, and therefore the data are comparable. And now, if our minister, our Prime Minister, is lying, then all the ministers and Presidents of the Government in the European Union are lying because they use the same starting points for statistics, whether they are left or right. Then we also lie to all citizens in the countries of the European Union because we use this data when it suits us, we take those, but then we lie. If one of us is lying, then we're all lying because the statistics are the way they are. But if one of them is lying, then all of them, or none of them, are already lying. And I would mention here, given these good results, that such results, which are visible, which are also evident in the statistics of the European Union, are probably the best basis for believing that even in the future, and even today in this rebalancing, I believe in the Government that probably better ways of working would be difficult to find better content. There'd probably be something else to improve, but not much better. With the results of Slovenia, including on the European Union scale, it would be difficult to improve something; on such a basis, it would be difficult to improve. Of course, others were also responsible for such a foundation, and this must also be made clear. For this reason, I also support such a proposal by the Government, such a balance and also such a general part. And also the answer to the question, if we can still be in debt, I say that I can, of course, to a certain extent. I would also like to remind you that our respected colleague, who used to sit in the front row and now, after his last year in the back row, has always convinced us to give our support to his or their proposals, which totally contradicted the Government's proposals, were completely different. But then it was said, "We will give you the opportunity to get out of this crisis, which you will cause, and support our proposal, and this will save you." And in view of this - for the good results of the Government, so I read them, because this is a support for what I now mean to say - given the good results, it is said, the better could almost not have achieved, I hardly hope to think about what the results of its solutions would be. That is why, of course, I will not listen to them today, and I will question them, and I will be sure that the proposal before us is a good one, so of course I will vote for it and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have listened attentively to all the debate so far since the opening presentation by the President of the Government, and to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and I very much agree with what the last representative of the Group's position has said, in some way, that the discussions are repeated year after year, at least as far as those who oppose the proposals of the Government are concerned. It is as if what we have heard today, with the exception of Mr Pauli, by the opposition Members, has already been seen or heard. And as we listened to one of the opposition thunderbolts again last year, as we did last year, when he described the disastrous consequences that would happen if they did not listen to their suggestions, their warnings, we have already experienced them. Never before have these predictions been fulfilled. On the contrary, not only have they exaggerated in this talk, in these predictions, but even the opposite has happened today's economic results, but macroeconomic indicators show, as has already been mentioned today, that the results and consequences of what this National Assembly has adopted on a proposal from the Government are quite excellent. I wonder, too, what would happen if, at that time, as had been warned today, we listened to our amendments, but what would happen then? Then we would have had worse results, but I think that was also the purpose of those who imposed those amendments at the time. The aim was to make the results worse or to make the results poor. Then we would face a different situation today, with different economic results, with different macroeconomic indicators. And then you'd probably see again why it's so, it's the government's fault, it's the government's fault, and so on. And I believe that was the purpose at the time. Today we are witnessing similar debates, similar to predictions, and similar warnings why we do not listen to why the government does not listen to the warnings and recommendations we give them when this is something that will prevent the harmful consequences that will otherwise occur. Thank God the government doesn't listen to such warnings. Experience has shown that thank God that we do not listen because these initiatives, in my profound belief, are not well-intentioned and are bad. They will cause what they would have caused when you imposed similar amendments. How can anyone else believe you when you've missed so many times in your predictions? How can one believe that today you are well-intentioned that you really want the good of this country? That's why I can't put anything on what you're recommending. For you have become, by repeating one and the same thing so many times, unworthy and therefore I support the proposal for a budget rebalancing that we are dealing with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bajuk, would you like a word now?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to talk about one matter that has reopened today, which obviously needs to be re-explanatory. And that is, all these comments also by certain experts, or that the media see as one talking about the risk of an increase in the deficit. I think it is high time that we once and for all understand - now we have been in the euro group for seven months now, as we have taken over the euro - to renew what we have heard so many times, because we have been explaining to you here many times that since then in the European Commission, the European Central Bank has no longer been looking at the various parts of the public financial position that we have been accustomed to over the decades of cosmetics and cosmetic toying. Today, there is a broader scope of the country, and these are total public finances; that is, the budget, the Health Insurance Office, the SPIZ, the municipalities and all other agencies that fall within this concept of the wider country. Both the President of the Government and himself, in our introductory words, have explained that this lack of a broader concept does not change. In fact, a debate is under way today on some technical transformation, since this National Assembly has adopted the Rail Transport Act and has established and approved the establishment of this new Directorate, which assumes this responsibility for investment control, the funds envisaged for this Agency must be included outside the budget, that is to say, in the budget. And that, in its essence, the deficit of the broader concept of the country does not change, that we do not assume any new obligation and that in the worst case, this deficit will be the one we have announced to the European Commission, the European Central Bank and this is 1.5% of gross domestic product. So, I hope that from now on, it will not be necessary to repeat this, not only in this National Assembly, but also in the wider media space in Slovenia, where some are so happy to experience and preach to the government exactly one thing that is not happening. It's the right thing to do. Then I would like to talk a little bit about the issue of railways in Slovenia. It is a fact and I welcome that the members of the opposition also recognise, acknowledge that over the long decades this neglected segment of our infrastructure has been. We simply did not make these key investments, which Slovenia should have already made at the time. Can we postpone this? The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this was the debate we had in this National Assembly when we discussed and you adopted the Guarantee Act is that these investments should be launched immediately. Why? Because it is finally about Slovenia retaining this historic role, which it has played as a crossroads in Europe. We can decide to forget about this and become, at the will of this National Assembly or a wider political consensus, the appendix of Europe. Our position is that we must not do so and that we must include the fifth and tenth corridors in such a way that it will actually go through our territory to maintain this role of the intersection we had. This requires a certain responsibility. Of course, assessments of what the fifth and tenth corridor means, not only from this strategic historical point of view, because, of course, our neighbours are still ready to exclude Slovenia from all of this and with some tunnels to achieve that we will only be the blind gut of Europe. We can't afford that. Slovenia has to do this. How much does that cost? Yes, according to best estimates, the finals are not yet complete and it is difficult to have them in the next few months, the estimates are around €8 billion, the smallest, and there, perhaps, the 10 largest. It will depend on the additional analysis and the study that will have to be done, but we are only talking about an amount that is hard to imagine - 8 billion. What's that? One-year budget of the Republic of Slovenia. One year's budget of the Republic of Slovenia costs us to bring the 5th and 10th corridor into operation so that it will truly become part of the logistics network of modern Europe. Obviously, and that is why we have the Law on Public Private Partnership, the answer to this question is precisely in the proper preparation of the project and partnership, which will actually achieve these objectives on this basis. We're working on it. It would be pointless for me to discuss today one thing that is not yet final, I would say, not a position, but a debate in this well-respected National Assembly, because we have not yet reached such a point in order to be able to present it definitively. However, we present to you the position of the Government and the direction in which we truly work. And that's next. Firstly: we will make this investment on the basis of a public-private partnership with the aim of involving Slovenia in Europe's modern logistics network. Then why are we doing this now? That's a legitimate question. Why are we dealing with these 433 million euros? Since this is the first phase, the first phase of emergency investments that we need to make are bottlenecks. Dear Members and Members, the Slovenian Railways are parts where trains go 10 kilometres per hour; we will not become a crossing or retain the role of a crossing in Europe by 10 kilometers. We need to do this right now and no matter what we're doing at the same time on a long-term solution; which I have already mentioned and presented to you; we need to start this right now. Otherwise, with the conviction that when this happens, this part of the first phase may also be included as our Slovenian contribution to this joint implementation of this global project. So, we have to do this in a global way. And we need to get to phase one right away. This first phase was held in this National Assembly very wide debate when we presented it and this National Assembly adopted the Guarantee Act, where the project was included. There is no news here, there is no addition, what we are doing today is that we have to include part of these investments in the budget, not on the basis of institutional changes that this National Assembly has adopted. And I repeat, without further jeopardising the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia in a broader concept, in a concept as Europe sees today and also everywhere else they represent, and this is a broader concept in its entirety. And this overall deficit will not exceed 1.5%. And in my opening remarks, I have repeated many times, and I will also end up with this because I have to repeat it again because I am still listening as if it would not be said or that it means nothing. The fact is 1.5% is the largest number [[number]] . We are confident that, as long as this favourable situation continues in our economy, this deficit will be smaller than once foreseen. Why? As the overall budget for 2007 was prepared on the basis of analyses by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which has not yet changed its assessment that economic growth will be by the end of 2007 to show that it is only 4.7%. Many, among them in person, are also convinced that this 4.7% is too low and that it will prove to be higher for real economic growth and, to the extent that this deficit will be higher, and that Slovenia will prove in advance, in 2007, on the basis of data, the realization of 2007, what we have already proved in 2005 and 2006, that when the data are really on the table, when we are talking on the basis of data, but not on the basis of the bar, then Slovenia is well-provided and praised in advance by all the Member States of the European Union and the European Group, Eurogroupe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Minister with co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, what one of the colleagues said in the previous debate was that the discussions on the budget each year are almost the same or very similar, and I am 15 years in this National Assembly and I can confirm that. However, one difference is only obvious - at least according to my personal experience and every year I also participated in the discussions on the budget either on behalf of the parliamentary group or on my own behalf - that it was also in the coalition, and if anyone did not believe I could look at the magnetograms of my discussions, that even when I was a coalition Member, I was critical of the proposals that the Government had forwarded to the National Assembly. What I can say - every year, so don't be so overly sensitive to it if someone says something critical, even if it's a little over-emphasis or if it doesn't hold 100%. On the other hand, it is not so protective that any matter proposed by the Government should not be discussed at all. After all, not only do we have the right, Members and Members of Parliament, but we are obliged to deal with taxpayers' money responsibly and also to deal with the draft budgets and balances responsibly. And I agree that 7 hours is certainly too much for the debate on the rebalancing, and for other points we spend too much time, often, unfortunately, inversely proportional effects and the importance of individual points, but that there is no need to debate at all, and that is not true. And now, if I go to specific matters so that I do not become too political or even political in the debate, which is not my custom, I would first like to make a very clear definition of two concrete proposals, which are the essential content of the proposal for a rebalancing. For me, the personal proposal for railways is not at all controversial because I agree with the conclusion that we are already very late to modernise railways. That is how the former government and the present government are. And it was high time to make a move with proportionate large resources and now the responsibility lies with the government and we will need to talk in particular about the effective implementation of this project on preparation and implementation, and this will be the responsibility of the government, the competent ministry and the management of the Slovenian Railways, the company itself. The debate will certainly continue and others will learn more about it and you will talk about it, and the minister will certainly say something about it. The question may be asked whether these funds are fully needed to be provided from the budget or if more other resources could be found to do so. But I'll take that as a fact, and I won't argue with that either. The question of the New Ljubljana Bank is slightly different. I have no doubt the necessity and usefulness of recapitalising the New Ljubljana Bank. However, the question arises: is it necessary to so extent that the State budget or the State is involved in the recapitalisation, or is it not possible to make greater use of others and to engage other sources of private capital as well as citizens and citizens, those who have the resources and are willing to be capital participants in the bank? The idea, which was also discussed not so long ago by the new governor of Banja Slovenia. After all, taxpayers in recent years have also rehabilitated this bank. And that would also preserve more domestic ownership. And now, a few words about the budget itself or about the rebalancing, because the fact is, the budget is the most important instrument of economic and development policy and public finance policy. In fact, we have very little debate in Parliament about the budget, usually only when we accept it, except when we adopt a law that has implications for the budget, or maybe some kind of guarantees and so forth. The rebalance is certainly such an opportunity to make the budget and the management of the budget or public funds more widely known. First of all, I would like to join the opinion of those colleagues who say that we do not take advantage of a sufficiently high economic growth. This is a fact that is higher than anticipated and, of course, as economic growth increases faster than anticipated, then automatically, even if public consumption does not decrease, its share declines as a percentage. So the reasons for some great complacency, colleagues and colleagues, are not. And the fact is that it is not enough to save, not before, but not during this government, despite the fact that just like every government, it likes to boast. What is of particular concern to me is that, even during the time of this government and this coalition, there is not enough to restructure the budget. Our budget is still very rigid, it has also been in recent years, unfortunately, so is the European budget. And without changes in the structure itself, and now I am talking mainly about the expenditure side, there will also be no greater efficiency and greater rationality. I give one example: our share of R & D in gross domestic product is not increasing, it has stagnated at a percentage of 0.61, the latest data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the third year. And we are actually in the situation, and we have been recently reminded by the representatives of the European Commission, when we had a mission here to verify what is going on in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, and they have found that we will not, in fact, achieve the objectives that are also set within the Union of 3% of gross domestic product for these purposes by 2010. This is one of the items which is one of the main objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and not only as a target for itself, but also one of the main means of achieving other objectives in the area of competitiveness growth and in other areas. Now I will not refer here, I agree with the Minister here that we can use the reserve to take some warnings from domestic economists, even though they are not entirely ignored, but we have constant warnings from eminent international institutions. This year, I have had the opportunity to engage in interviews with the International Monetary Fund mission, and also in recent years, with representatives of the European Commission, and most of all point to one and the same, to the individual segments of the budget, to the need for greater rationalisation of spending and to the action not to come in the next years, because I currently agree that the situation is not yet alarming, but the warnings relate above all to the need not to get into trouble, to take action in a timely manner. And now, for the end, I would like to point out just one more thing, which concerns the revenue side and takes us to the risk that the situation will worsen at the end of the year. This is a poor use or involvement of European Union funds. Colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that; the data show this and someone might say that the situation will be rectified in the coming months, towards the end of the year, just as it was last year; but it is worrying that we are among those new members of the European Union who are most late with the necessary documents to be submitted to the European Commission for the use of funds on the basis of a new financial perspective. I don't think so. I have here tables of the European Commission by country, after the dates on which someone submitted the national strategic reference framework and we are among those countries that are most late. Not to mention the old Member States of the Union. What is of particular concern is that they are among those countries that have submitted at least operational programmes for individual purposes in the area of the Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund. Only two programmes and only one programme for the European Social Fund, this is the situation on 25 June this year. This clearly shows that the activity of the Government or, more precisely, the individual ministries and services working on it and the people working on it are not satisfactory or that it is worrying and that it is necessary to alert the Government and to take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I ask all present to consider my implementation as an implementation on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. In his second implementation, a kind of replica, Mr Minister said that we did not increase the budget deficit before the European Bank and the European Commission. Although I find it very difficult to believe that it is someone's goal to show abroad one and at home another. The fact is that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is different, amounting to 60 billion from the balance. Mr Bajuk, for the public at home, the National Assembly, that is, the one who has confirmed the budget as well as, unfortunately, today, the balance is also confirmed by the difference of €60 billion,540 million. From this address, Mr Bajuk, I can say with certainty that I do not know what the predictions you make abroad are. I travel very little, and I avoid it. And I don't want this to be a subject of criticism or a subject of praise. Anyone can find something in this. I am sorry, however, that you are talking to citizens and citizens in this way that the European Commission and the European Bank are your priorities. I would like to point out further in relation to the data going to EU institutions, also the credibility of this data. In the main presentation on the proposal for a rebalancing, Prime Minister Janez Janša said once again, "We have reduced unemployment by 19%." I stress again, precisely because I would like to show the whole picture of how this apparent reduction occurred. Of course, I believe, as I can see that you are now on the phone when I speak to you, Mr Bayuk, this does not seem to be right, especially in the context of the relationship that Feri Horvat spoke about, that 7 hours and 20 minutes is too much debate for a rebalancing, it seems to me personally too little, given your relationship in this National Assembly. In particular, it seems to me that 7 hours and 20 minutes is too little given the amount of money that this National Assembly currently has at its disposal. I like to point out the questionability or credibility of the data you send abroad. For it is obvious that the only important criterion for the kindness of strangers to us is yours. I was talking about a 19% reduction in unemployment. Let me inform you that you've only removed 700 people from unemployment statistics recently. But not because they found employment, but because the government of John Janša, the government that came into power in 2004, received new criteria and said, "Despite the fact that man does not actually have a job, he will not come to the statistics of the unemployed." Why? In order to be able to pursue those verbal goals that we have witnessed a little earlier about the decline. On the other hand, I would, of course, like to point out from this title that at least the last three, four months, whenever a government representative is heard, talk about abnormal high economic growth, about how Slovenia is among the most competitive, not only in Europe, but in the world. And if we link it to the macro-economics' position, then we're in some kind of paradoxical situation. Why, if economic growth is good? Why if it's good exports and imports? Then why do we increase our home deficit or deficit? I think that's what my colleague Pavlich was talking about when he quoted some macro-economists. In short, the logic would be that, if the economic situation, which is also reflected in public finances, is positive, then why increase the deficit. But, of course, it is a strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, according to my assessment, builds on wrong assumptions. Above all, it builds on the assumptions of the current current public policy. Personally and my fellow Members, however, we believe that tomorrow or better in the coming year will not be the end of public finances and will not be the end of the Republic of Slovenia and will not be the end of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But that public finances must reflect some kind of stability and long-term, building on the trust of citizens and citizens in this country. But of course, I will respond to you in particular, Mr Bayuk, when my father at the end of the month blames his son, the underage son, because at the end of the month, he ran out of financial resources to survive his family. It seems very irresponsible for you to blame this National Assembly, which meets 7 hours a year with public finance, on the need for a rebalancing or rather a budget change this year. And when we are dealing with budget changes, no one in this National Assembly or within the Government will be anyone, even Mr. Willi Rezman, who so much likes to defend all the areas that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia makes as something positive, cannot claim that the balance is positive. Rebalance is a change, indicating that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not even have a strategy that is worth speaking on days 365 days. And we need to know that consumers of the budget are both legal persons and natural persons and that they attach their economic or individual vision to this basic public financial act. Therefore, any change indicates short-term and some kind of inability to plan and, of course, worse, the realisation of financial resources. And this year, in the context of a public financial act, you stated that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia would not come into play as a reason for change, despite the fact that you, I think, 8 months ago, stated that two elements would not happen. The first element, the so-called Slovenian Railways, is that economic entity that is in our country, if one listened to you like that, was not established until last year. As if it were only last year that we set up our country's first track and released the first compositions along these tracks. The fact is different and I believe that everyone knows this deep down: Slovenian railways have been in Slovenia for a very long time; that tradition and that with the problem of Slovenian railways are Slovenian politics, at least the current or previous, knowledge of us for a long, long time. And so to come to the National Assembly 14 days ago and to say this problem has arisen, the problem where the country will be able to take up cover, financial coverage, I speak for Slovenian railways is, of course, incorrect. We all knew about the existence of the problems of Slovenian railways a few years ago. Therefore, talking about not knowing or better saying that you did not plan this expenditure, cost, out-of-way, however you want, believes that you will even like the term "out-way" for the institution of Slovenian Railways, is nicely said incorrect. I would like to touch, in particular, that second moment, the moment of the New Ljubljana Bank. From this address, I am addressing a question to which I hope you will answer me immediately after my performance. The fact is that the members of the Supervisory Committee of the New Ljubljana Bank are confirmed or even appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Authority of the New Ljubljana Bank confirmed the position of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, which therefore concerns capital adequacy. In other words, capital adequacy can be compared to the recapitalisation of the institution. From this address, I ask you: Do you, as the Government, as the highest man in this country, and more than the most important man in the New Ljubljana Bank, know the New Ljubljana Bank strategy, their investment orientation, and what is even more important at this point is the ownership structure? It turned out a month ago that one of the Slovenian companies sold the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not even know that they had sold it. And this company that sold this is owned by the state. To the question I posed to the Ministry of Finance, I received the answer, "Yes, this should not have happened." To my second question, I got the answer, "Yes, the government knew that." Does the current situation, Mr. Bajuk, the country of the Republic of Slovenia still own 50% of the New Ljubljana Bank? First question. Second question: Who is allowing the sale? I think that 1.5% of the stake was in exchange for buying or investing somewhere in Western Europe, someone else who already has a parked capital and who is looking for an investor banker? And does it make sense to approach recapitalisation in a given situation? The question of the level of recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bath depends, of course, on the risk or, rather, on the capacity of investments in other words, the risk of investment in the future strategy. And what is the strategy of the New Ljubljana Bank from here? Why are we asking that? Because Nova Ljubljanska banka is still, at least so sincerely I hope and I hope that you will also confirm this, in the hands of the Republic of Slovenia. We also provide the money we provide today, not with the money of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not with the money of the National Assembly, we provide it with the money of Slovenk and Slovenes, those who fill the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. From this title, however, I find it no longer funny that the ruling Members, all of them in turn, both at the April session and at the May session, rejected the Slovenian National Party's proposal to discuss banks in order to devote an hour or two to the topic of what the vision is, the strategy of the institution dealing with the banking system that is in our hands. But no. I will say 30, as opposed to all the other members of the opposition, who make up the majority. They didn't even want to hear about it, except to hear about the capital, rather, strategic orientation of the largest banking system in our country. And despite the fact that we all know that the policy, perhaps yours or the policy in front of you, has failed within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank, you are making the same story or you are encouraging it within the framework of the New Maribor Credit Bank. When are we gonna meet the recapitalization there? When the mixed owners talk about whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will recapitalise the wings in 100% and potential, tell me, in my opinion, that I can read the future when 10 investors take ownership of the New Bank of Maribor by 3%? Will the country then come up with a year-by-year rebalancing, I don't know, 2008 or 2009 by financial means, so that we can make more money for those who have come to, in my opinion, completely unwarranted property? And if we can ever talk about the transfer of state-owned funds into private hands, these are the moments. I ask you, the fourth question, Mr. Bajuk, I expect answers to this: Did you even execute or order, but I do not care about the internal or external revision of the proposal for recapitalisation within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank? The fact is that the proposal for recapitalisation came from the analytical services. It was confirmed by an Infantry higher, not least by the Administration, but finally confirmed by your representatives on the Supervisory Board and later by the Bank, I speak, of course, as institutions. And 14 days after that or maybe I am exaggerating, let's say 28 days after that we're meeting the state budget balance from confirmation. While 30 days before that, members of the National Assembly, who make up the ruling majority and who blindly follow you, and this is not an insult to any one, it is just the truth, avoid or better say a ban on the position of the New Ljubljana Bank on its strategy, on the relationship with the potential ones, and I purposely use the term potential owners of the KBC because we do not know what will happen to them, or not finally the EBRD of their withdrawal. It was not a few days ago that I read that you would offer the existing securities holders, i.e. shareholders of the New Ljubljana Bank, a 14-day deadline that would allow you to apply for entry into the recapitalisation system. But who are the shareholders of the New Ljubljana Bank? So such misleading information as to be to shareholders, small shareholders On the other hand, are small shareholders in the New Ljubljana Bank? [[...]] Are they, Mr. Bayuk? You'll answer later. These kinds of things are simply incorrect. Therefore, it is more than incorrect to burden a state budget without basic instruments in this way. So not only is there a lack of internal audit, recapitalisation, but the minimum that we should have here is, of course, an external audit to see what greedy people coming from circles near you who you have set up at the most important institutions have proposed. Does the story of greedy people continue? So they want more and more for their own pocket. And this National Assembly confirms all of this. Because the fact is that greedy people are far more than inflation within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And when we are talking about state property or income from the sale of state property to talk to you about the general part of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, let me point out another story. A story that some call a never-ending story. The story in connection with the lead and zinc mine in Mizica. As you probably know, some of your people within your ministry have also cooperated with the Ministry of Economy in the event of this sale or better said to the inkom in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But what happened? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I speak because I want you to know what is going on with the revenue in the state budget, I will not touch on the expenditure until later. How our Government, whose basis is the coalition contract and the basis of the coalition agreement, is so-called transparency, income care or, on the other hand, for people who will remain on the road due to the impending bankruptcy. And don't tell me in three months that you didn't know about the bankruptcy. Today and this is where you found out. But I stayed with that company in Koroška. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a sales programme that will fill the budget or otherwise say a rebalancing as a basic public financial act of our country. Immediately at the beginning of their term of office, it was said, within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that they had tendered. But they didn't make the call because they didn't have the criteria to sell. Then a naive man might still say yes, but maybe that's true. There were no criteria, no institutions, no commissions to make the sale. But later on, the SOD and the CAD reported, I think that the table marked by ABC - List of sales of state assets, that is, those strategic investments, smaller investments and similar things. But why? First of all, the state withdraws from the economy. Secondly, in exchange for this, something also gets to get some funding, because if we are already selling, we are not giving, but we want everyone together, if we have been building this together, to have some effect in the area of public finances. In this story RSCM-Building materials from Koroška, which is a company in a very envious position, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia made the first call. Three potential buyers applied for the first call. I'm sorry, the second call was the first to begin your term of office with your signature. This invitation to tender was repeated three times. It has always been said by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to achieve a higher purchase. And when they reached out for the third time, i.e. they called the buyers, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finally saw that it would not be able to obtain its buyer - because it was also agreed that they would get their buyer and would not comply with market law - so they changed the criteria and criteria for buying. At the end of the tendering period, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Commission, composed of members of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, subsequently amended the criteria and evaluation of the criteria for individual elements of the tender. The case has been pending since the beginning of this year. Later, when, thank God or luckily, the story became interesting to journalists, within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, let them also fear Saturdays, Fridays, anyone else. But what happened to the matter ahead? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Commission in question has chosen the most favourable bidder, and I do not care if it has overpaid the company or not. Whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has reached a higher purchase despite changing criteria throughout the whole process, but it was a fixed date and it was last week to sign the contract. For the purpose of signing a sales contract, i.e. on the withdrawal of a country from the economy, or otherwise, on the acquisition of funds. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has withdrawn or abstained from the Government's meeting four times for sale. But why did she delay or withdraw her consent to sell? From this place, I am personally sorry, Mr. Minister, you did not even know that the government has intervened in your area, or should I say again, Saturdays, Fridays, anyone, has intervened in your area and that of course the company has withdrawn from the order of sale. But why am I saying this? Because Mr Vizjak last Friday, Minister of Economy, has achieved that the matter has returned to its original stage. But why? Because he was not a real buyer because he was not a buyer of the weather of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And he ordered an internal audit. Internal audit! And in case we have on the one hand a budget expenditure, a recapitalisation, no one within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to hear about an internal audit, but on the other hand we have a budget revenue for the sale of state property, and of course the Minister does so on the basis of an order to order an internal audit. But what have you accomplished with this internal audit? A potential buyer who has been selected on three invitations or two, while the second invitation to tender has been completed four times, you have achieved that he is likely to withdraw, he will put his hands away. Because, according to his assessment, I suppose, with such a corrupt government or elements in this government, he no longer wants to deal with it. But you've achieved something worse, and now I'm going back to that element of the unemployed, and you've achieved that the company will go bankrupt. What happens to the workers, we all know what happens to the workers in bankruptcy. But nobody cares. And if I initially talked about reducing unemployment, as Mr Janez Janš taught us in great and fine terms, let me point out that in the context of unemployment statistics we have a 22.7% rate of permanent unemployment and unemployment due to bankruptcy. After all, instead of achieving the synergies of input into the state budget or the rebalancing, what are you going to achieve exactly the opposite effect, i.e. the increase in unemployment, bankruptcy companies and smaller purchases? And if we can say with certainty in this National Assembly that the Government is, I will say on purpose, because I do not want to offend you, Mr. Bayuk, Janez Janša, on purpose did not also tell your Government, I came to power because it placed on the highest pedestal a tendency to fight corruption, customerism and money laundering, in front of you this is happening! And then you come to the National Assembly, you sign a document that additionally owes, increases the deficit or the deficit of the country of Slovenia, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and you come and say, yes, and now I will quote Mr President of the Government again, "The government has committed itself to the Stability Pact." What Stability Pact? The Stability Pact because your political friends don't offer enough purchases to buy that company, so calls have to be repeated, repeated, repeated every day? Is that why there's no budget revenue? Mr Janez Janša further notes: "The Slovenian economy is on track." But if the Slovenian economy is on track, would it not be logical for the budget deficit to be reduced rather than increased? Do you not find it more logical to approach the surplus rather than to increase the deficit? We speak very contrary or one and the same people speak very contrary. To conclude, the President of the Government once again stressed, I wrote to myself: "Economic growth is increasing. We're all jealous. We envy the new members of the EU, envy the members who join the EU, envy the old members, envy the whole world." On the other hand, once again, unemployment is falling. Of course, unemployment is falling if you change the criteria, who is unemployed, who is not. And if you say anything about anyone else, you're not unemployed anymore. Even if you don't have a job, we won't count you in. And finally, the only part of the speech of the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, who did not read it, but said it, for all the words that I have just said he has read them. All he could think of was, "Thank you very much. So much for the credibility of our Prime Minister, his concern for those truly important areas. I believe that people have different views on the importance of individual budget lines within our country. However, I also believe that the President of the Government should have control over everything but not leave the sale of various concessions, whether the concessions for gaming, whether these concessions for gaming should be linked to the New Credit Bank of Maribor, whether these concessions will be linked to companies in Ptuj or elsewhere to subordinate the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenia is delaying and losing in public finances through the behaviour and confirmation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with only two types of people within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: one, such as the President of the Government, who is not interested at all, and the other, who are afraid to tell them what is going on in this area. From this title, I would also like to mention a word or two about the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It has been said from one speaker before me that the debates are repeated year after year. That's sad. From year to year, we have in our country a public debt that burdens any one of us who burdens a newborn who burdens a 14-year-old who burdens and cares anyone who can think clearly, except Mr. William Rezman, except for him, but he's all cute, he's all "fine" whatever the government does, that's it, that's wonderful. We're all populisms. We're all left. But I personally participated in this Parliament for the first time in the budget or in the 2000 balance. From 2000 onwards, in 2001, 2002, up to today's two-year budgets, the structure of the budget revenues has not changed. We are talking about tax and tax revenues. And if the next year is again disturbing anyone to talk about this structure of budgetary revenue, from my place today, let it bother you, because until you remember this, gentlemen, it is also necessary to work on so-called non-tax sources that will fill the budget or public finances that you will have to say so much. And you know what's funny? Those who today have a head and speak to her, but this is always said to her every year, are in the framework of the previous opposition, because you who are now in power have been in the opposition, and you applauded it, and you encouraged it and said it, yes, it is true. Recent sources need to be raised. On several occasions, the Minister of Finance, the President of the Government, to any other minister who was once in Parliament, has been told, we need a roofing law on concessions, concessions in this country, and we do not even have one seat. Each ministry in particular leads, some directly indirect. Public companies, your secretary of state, I think it was a month ago when we adopted a directive on communication with public companies. Well, I hope I'm not wrong, because if I'm wrong, I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm wrong. You did not even know what the basic acts were talking about, about the division between companies and public-economic companies, about the substantial difference in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the company, the company as a purely one example of an economic company, are pursuing one objective. This is a maximization of income, profit at the expense of the owner. Public companies operate on the basis of another law and pursue another objective. It's a general quality, not a profit maximization. But these are the things I've been telling you personally, I believe my fellow Members have been since 2000. But you haven't been there once. The content of those words has been captured. We will be most pleased to support in the parliamentary group, all six Members, the concession law, which will once place the budget revenues on the single balance sheet. This is because if the state has an area governed by concessions and we must be aware that under normal law only the state and the local community have the right to dispose of concessions, our country avoids it. I don't know why. Maybe because it's possible for individual mayors, now the Russian mayor has gone out, Comrade Rezman, for those of you who don't understand. They're adjusting the concession ratio. Finally, concessions in the field, let there be construction, asphalt bases, anything. But you don't want to have them because you prefer non-transparent business in exchange for getting individuals financial resources rather than to fill the state budget in the form of synergies. And then you come in front of us and you say, a rebalance, a correction that will additionally burden citizens and citizens, even through this way you can see, because the fact is that the budget is filled exclusively through the budget revenues, which make up 90% of the tax revenues. And you say it's for acceptance. The concept, the concept of this government's thinking is wrong. And I am very sorry that this concept is summed up by the system of the previous government. I sincerely wish that if there is ever a national party in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that we do not find this disease, that is, that the concept changes: when you are in opposition, you tend to do something when in the government you strive to satisfy individual interests, capital interests, lobbying or not to fear a much younger person. I don't think that can be very proud of you, Mr. Bajuk. But I know you know what I'm talking about. But as it is said, there is little time available, I can say with certainty - my vote in support of the balance will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u142	Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting. A while ago, we heard the real odo to the government, which has just gone to statistics, but statistics are the devil, if you mix meat and cabbage, you get segeda's goulash. Therefore, not only when it comes to assessing whether a government has been successful or not, but it overlooks what people have done, what those who run large business systems have done, and so on, then, of course, there is something else to know. Look, it's usually said, "thank you very much, little price." The opposition is simply here to ask you unpleasant questions, Mr. Minister. You've had a whole bunch of them before, but since it's my estimate of one mini, mini-rebalancing, I'll talk more mini, more in detail than my predecessor. In general, I would say that if we are so successful at introducing the euro that we also have European prices, I wonder whether we also have European wages. When I got my salary calculated, I get the highest possible, because we are limited up, and I talked to a colleague who was a gendarmes in Austria, in a pension in Maribor, I see that he has an inappropriate salary higher than one member of the National Assembly. That's the first thing. If we look at how much our nurse deserves on our side and if she goes to work in Austria and beyond, it's like night and day. And you don't have this easy job, Mr. Minister, to save this Gordy knot, it's called having good health care, but at the same time also affecting that you should be able to raise your wages with good economic conjuncture, because one and the other, if you are ahead of the other, or if someone can't balance it, then it clearly leads to collapse. I would also like to say that in Maribor we were very sad to say that we did not say that we hung the black flag when the Rail Transport Act was amended, where MEPs received some institutions and lost something very important in Slovenia, and in other places, like now in higher education. We had, we have the mail, we have the university, but this part is gone, the directorate is here again in Ljubljana, big funds, it's 433 million, it's not going to be in the vaults of the bank of Maribor anymore, but it's going to be here in this bank. And what this means for a bank that is improperly exposed to German capital is not enough to speak. On the other hand, things are hiding in small things, I thought, Mr. Secretary, something that you'd overlooked or maybe you'd do and you'd confirm. When we used these budgets for 2007, we argued here and all the media gathered that it was necessary to provide funds for the construction of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. At the time, the first amendment was EUR 2 million, if you look at it, against the amount of EUR 433 million, which was here, it's only if I round up very much, 5 miles of that amount. That's when you said it was so small that you didn't have to watch it. Mr Franz Kangler, who then ran for mayor and this meant a great deal to him in the election campaign, even made an amendment for one million euros, but you rejected him in the coalition. Then you made similar statements that all of us, your party colleague, the esteemed Minister of Higher Education, Dr. Jure Zupan, then said, here I have his letter: "With regard to your proposal for an amendment proposing an amendment to the draft budget of the Republic for 2007, we inform you that we have the resources to carry out the architectural competition in 2007 provided under the budget item..." and so on. Then he says: "Unless the said funds prove to be insufficient in 2007, the Minister of Finance Dr. Bajuk ensures that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will provide the missing funds by redistributing the funds from the budget reserves, which he also intends to present to the National Assembly." I have, Mr. Minister, your statement here in your hands, see if I'm literally quoting what you're saying. However, if it really turns out that the funds provided for in the budget would not be sufficient, but I will propose to the Government myself, and I am confident that this will also be a success, redistribution of resources so that what is proposed here today will also be actually available. Thank you very much. You give us the balance here, there's no means in there. The boys have come so far as to have an act before them to sign, then to build the entire project file. But they walk like they used to go to Canoso, this money's nowhere, they say, find your stuff. I ask the Minister of Higher Education that my colleagues have asked me where I was elected from, but there is no answer. Mr Minister, according to the words given, I have read them here, two ministers from New Slovenia, and I ask you here too, but this is a small matter, whether you will provide these funds, because these funds may be small for you, but you will need a lot of resources next year. If this year is not ready, then they have no basis in 2008 to run for European funds, and these European funds will ultimately be inadequately larger than what the state is doing because it is medicine. So, you're going to do it again. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] These things, so we can really draw on these funds in the next year. [[...]] For your answer, Minister, I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, Minister, please. At the same time, I'm opening the application circuit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much. A few comments came up. I would like to mention or at least comment on what honourable Member Ferri Horvat has said, how worrying it is that it is underlying in the budget itself. There has been a great deal of talk in recent times about the lack of flexibility in our budget. That's a fact. The flexibility of our budget is as it is, on the basis of the legislation that is in force. This will require a great deal of long-term efforts and cooperation between the executive branch and the National Assembly in order to achieve this. However, it is certainly also essential that the state budget in Slovenia should also be realized what is being said today in all countries around the world, especially in the euro group, so that the quality of public finances needs to be improved. The problems related to the economy and efficiency of public spending are now on the agenda and it is not easy to change that. The fact is that in our Law on Public Finance and also in every budget we have certain things already included, as regards the objectives of the targeted budget. However, it is far from being able to have ambitious goals on each item that would enable us to propose to the executive authority or to evaluate the National Assembly, what is actually happening to all the means available. His concern about the Lisbon strategy. I would also like to mention that, with regard to limited time, I have not been able to precisely and I have only mentioned quickly in my introductory words, how it actually appears that our approach, which this National Assembly has also adopted, is to introduce a new and much broader relief, as regards investment in research and development, as it is being achieved. And on the basis of not yet complete data, but the first data available to us at the Ministry of Finance, I can tell you that the total amount was a relief to invest in research and development in 2005 in a total amount of EUR 2.5 million, but on the basis of this data for 2006, that is to say, what we now have in full is a more complete picture of a total of EUR 2.5 million coming to EUR 59.7 million. This is a very important step because it gives us the hope that this approach, which we have proposed and adopted by this National Assembly, will bring this relief and allow entrepreneurs to decide for themselves what they should do and what they will invest in, because they are finally carrying four-fifths of the burden and the country is only one fifth, so far it appears to be the right path. And this is also a concrete contribution to Slovenia in the broader context of the implementation or implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in the European area. With regard to the question of Mr Pečet, on the question of whether I know the strategy of the New Ljubljana Bank. Of course, I know it and also part of this strategy for a long time was the fact that there is to be an association of younger subsidiaries such as the Zasavska, Domska and Koroška Bank, and this is the key reason why this is happening at the moment. As regards whether this additional investment of 50 million state funds into the capital of the New Ljubljana Bank, if this increases the deficit, the answer is no. This does not increase the deficit, as this is from the B balance sheet, these are assets from the sales investment and go to another investment. As far as it's concerned, it doesn't matter. But I have to tell you that there is still a pretty good investment, because the first data we have on the return on investment is 109 million in the first half of the year, which is good data. On the question of whether I can assure him that today the Government owns more than 50% of the New Ljubljana Bank. The answer is yes. More than 50%, yes. 50.06 [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I said the whole country. [[...]] Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u147	Can I have some peace, please? As far as small shareholders are concerned. Of course, this recapitalisation, the definition itself means that only those who are already shareholders are recapitalising. And this one will be open to everyone. Of course, everyone is absolutely invited and everyone will be able to cooperate. There's no doubt about it. The question of selling the state share of that company you were talking about, I'm just going to look into it. I don't have the data right now. If things are as you describe them, I think that the subject of analysis must be either the Court of Auditors or the Office of Budgetary Control itself. That's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to be on time, not just to you personally, but to this National Assembly. As far as your question is concerned, Mr Moja. The word applies and I think it applies to both sides. It must apply to both sides. Applicants must also meet all the things they have committed themselves to so that we can do so. However, we are still a few months away from the implementation of the budget this year, I hope that such conditions will be created so that we can implement them. But the word applies to both sides, not the government itself. Another comment on European prices and European wages. Slovenia is an economy in transition that wants to achieve and reach the exact situation as soon as possible where other old member states and other economies of the European Union have been in it for a long time. But we are a country that has been and an economy that has acted in a different way in its time has not been as successful as it has proved to be a successful old Europe and, of course, we must catch up with them. The only way we'll be able to catch up to them is if we grow faster than they do. This is clearly the fact that this is happening today. I expect that we will reach them as soon as possible and that we will be above the average in the coming years. This is not beyond our options as a country, and I think we are on the right track to come to that. However, I would also like to remind you that you said that your own thanks, the price of the small, seems nice to me, so it is good to repeat once again what I have said several times, not only in this room, but also outside our borders, that the success of the Slovenian economy is not attributed to anyone, no person, but to everyone, including the social partners, who were able to give up in time certain legitimate expectations of taking the euro alone. We are confident, and I myself have also explained to the social partners that we all understand that it is impossible and that it is unsustainable in the long term, that we will have a wage policy as it has been. But I have also explained to them, and I am prepared to have such a discussion with you or with anyone else again, that it is absolutely necessary for all of us to adopt a certain approach unanimously, I would say, agreeing that no such thing will happen after a rapid procedure because it can harm us. The fact is that now the living Slovenians have not felt what it means to live and work in a certain economy, in a certain climate of stability. This stability has been achieved by Slovenia since its entry into the ERM-2; today we reap all the fruits of these also victims that were needed to do so. I think that we must all work on this too, so that we can keep this, and we will have even more success in the future. I think it's enough, once again, that the social partners won't praise themselves, but I would like to commend them once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, you want a replica, even though Mr. Minister has answered your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u149	The minister answered, but he didn't answer. I think it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u150	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u151	Mr. Secretary answered, but he didn't answer. And if you'll excuse me, from this title [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u152	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u153	Mr Bajuk, if you really think that the New Ljubljana Bank strategy is to connect with Koroška and Zasavska Banka, then you don't even have the basic information. Then I have more information than you have. At least the strategy on the website of the New Ljubljana Bank is to enter new markets. And from this title they justify recapitalisation. Therefore, not as a reason for recapitalisation to state, forgive me, but you are doing yourself a shame if you say that this connection with Koroška and Zasavská Banka is because it is simply not so. On the other hand, you're talking about small shareholders. Will the small shareholders of these two connecting banks be entitled to a 14-day deadline after the doubling of their securities? The minister didn't answer that either. And what I think is most important or especially for Mr. Bayuk and for me: Where are the revenues from the gambling concessions, Mr. Bajuk, how much did they increase? A while ago, I addressed to you a question from the Member States, which I spoke about earlier, where I received a list of the modern owners of gaming concessions. Where are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u154	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to thank and in some way express my satisfaction to the Minister that, in his opening remarks, he has justified the need for a rebalancing, both by amending the legislation on rail transport and by recapitalising the Ljubljana Bank. Of course, the material we received as an explanation for the balance sheet is a little different. There is a fundamental objective, or reason, of amending legislation in the field of rail transport and the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank is thus burdened. Regardless of the Minister's absence, I hope to say that the original objective, the primary objective, is, I apologize, the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank and that the part of the rebalancing that is justified by the railway is briefly used only for the facade or for some kind of smoke screen. I agree with the Minister, which stated that the public deficit does not increase. This is a fact and, of course, a dramatisation by increasing one part of the public finances within, which does not affect the sum, it is a state budget, and it is not that important. It is true, however, that neither the public financial deficit nor the budgetary deficit are reduced, although it is likely that all the conditions that have not been met so far or most of the conditions have been met, because if we cannot reduce the public financial deficit or symbolically at 7% or more of the growth rate in the economy, one serious question is raised altogether. Why do I claim that the primary objective is to recapitalise the Ljubljana Bank? This is not prohibited, by the way, but the question is whether it is necessary and if it is wise at a given time. To talk about connection, because as far as we have available information, this bank is capital-appropriate, it could have done without recapitalisation in the past. But from this I don't mean to make a problem, it's allowed, the government has decided to take responsibility for it. As far as the railway is concerned, I don't think it's necessary for the balance to be used as a smoke screen, as I said, because it's very popular to talk about a state on railways that's really catastrophic. The Public Finance Act clearly and loudly stipulates for each layman how the new budgetary obligations arising under the law adopted after the adoption of the State budget are included in the State budget. Of course, along the railways, only if this is not necessary at the moment, a whole bunch of questions or dilemmas are opened. I am pleased that the finance minister has previously raised the issue of corridor 5 in such a vehement manner. I think this is some progress because some of his government colleagues have not yet understood the importance of the 5th Corridor and, of course, they did not want to be aware of the danger when, in Brussels or in Strasbourg, MEPs from neighbouring Austria tabled amendments that would bring rail traffic at least partially across our fifth corridor, or at least that part from Prague to Hodhos would not have been or would not have been important, in which I live and I know well what the state of the railway is. I am one of those Styrian Members who did not defend the agency's seat at every price in Maribor, because the quality of rail transport based on my deep conviction depends on it. But it is true that 40 years ago, as a freshman in Ljubljana, I brought a train no worse than I did today. So I fully understand this concern. However, the question is raised. Given the positive fact that we have finally received the Law on Public-Private Partnership, for which some of us have waited for more than 10 years, and right now investing in that part of the railway costs, if I say so, which does not mean investment costs, or, if you want, regular maintenance, and that part of the costs that does not mean ensuring own participation in those projects co-financed by EU funds. Is there no fear that the railways will be wrong again, as this country has in the past made in the construction of motorways? That she over-involved public funds when it was time for other financial resources, instruments, she did not take advantage of it. Now it's too late. I hope that we will not go in this direction in the field of railway infrastructure, and from this point of view, a certain increase in funds in this balance for this purpose seems questionable to me. In particular, because the representative of the Ministry of Transport on the Committee on Finance could not explain whether the new directorate would already be able to absorb it. There are some proponents or proponents writing about 32 projects. If all these projects were awarded or concluded in the first part of this financial year, then there is hope that you will spend these funds. But if it wasn't, there's no real hope that you're going to do the projects and do it by the end of this year. Therefore, there is also a questionable balance in this respect, although there is no need in the field of railways. This raises a few more questions. It would be very interesting to read a public invitation from the Railway Agency in last year and in previous years, when it had generally been claused in the tenders that it would be allowed to withdraw from the investment unless budgetary resources were provided. It should also be recalled that we have not been able to reduce funds for the same purposes or for the same purposes in some rebalancing period for a short period of time, in the middle of the year, because the projects were not sufficiently prepared. From the State Secretary's response from the Ministry of Transport on the Committee, I suspect that there will be something similar to the unjustified reduction of donations from the European Union, about which we can read potential speculations more in different newspapers than in the explanation of the budget, where there is a shortage of information that EU donations are declining by so much and so. I think that at least so much responsibility would be attached to the National Assembly, which is the only competent one to accept the state budget, so that this information can be submitted responsibly. I'm not going to talk about criticisms, bragging and stuff like that, but there's something I'd like to point out. In the past, during the term of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Arhar, not until the end of his term of office, there was a good habit in this National Assembly that the budget was presented by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, and then the Governor. On this occasion, it would be interesting to listen to the current or current governor, for whom it can be read from the media, that at least his position on the deficit or the problem of not reducing the public financial deficit is slightly different from that of the Ljubljana Bank. We have already experienced this, that the current executive authorities have not been sympathetic to the independent performance of governors at the time of the adoption of the budget in this National Assembly and that the governors have been voted out. However, I think that this old practice, which was once, or procedure, would be wise to reintroduce, because then we could get competent also possible slightly different positions, as always represented by the proposer, but no matter who the Government is, in relation to Members, to the National Assembly in any sense would be interesting. As with the Bank of Ljubljana, it is also reserved with some amount of money for unknown capital deposits, which I think is not because they are increasing relatively strongly, at all, it is not important, but it would be appropriate for the Government to decide on these capital injections in order to at least substantiate its purpose in grave terms. And to conclude with why I said earlier in the opening position of our parliamentary group that the time frame is inappropriate. This also shows or confirms that it is not the primary objective or the need for railways, but the Ljubljana Bank. From the point of view of the deadlines laid down in the Rail Transport Act, this rebalancing is too late. There are also aspects of the absorption capacity of the new Directive for roads or rail infrastructure, and on the other hand we are receiving some information on the implementation of the budget by drop. The report on the implementation of the budget to be drawn up by the Ministry or Government by the end of July is usually the basic document on which the need or non-necessity of the balance is determined. This is not all we have, and therefore this rebalancing is premature, unless it is some kind of positive speculation that due to relatively good inflows, especially in the field of tax resources, where it shows that it is for five months. What has been published for six months, unfortunately we do not have access to this data yet, is quite an ideal realization, which means, in any event, that by the end of the year, revenues will be exceeded against existing or anticipated revenues and the question is whether the balance sheet has been tabled before this report to avoid the Minister or the Ministry within the coalition pressure to increase the budget at any time, given the positive inflows. This opens up open opportunities for us to meet again in the autumn with some kind of rebalancing that will or will have to accept depending on the trends ahead also substantially increased budgetary revenue, particularly tax revenue, given the assessment that has been made or expected if economic growth is as it is and everyone is satisfied with it, it continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u157	Good-bye, everyone. The balance sheet is only a correction of the budget which has been adopted. And the balance only ensures the balanced implementation of the budget and the objectives set by it. Of course, within the framework of the Stability Pact, as mentioned earlier, if I mention only this criterion compared to some of the old members of the European Union, Slovenia can be an absolute example of fulfilling the Stability Pact, which, of course, does not mean, in the first place, subordinated to a European policy, but, in particular, ensuring those frameworks in which the public finances of each country must be maintained if we want to keep the country well in the long term. And I think that the mid-year balance means an orderly and well-managed situation by the government. I think that half a year is the right time, and we all know that, and it means actually a regulated and controlled situation by the government. The thoughts expressed here could, if we were to stick to the balance, but not all the problems that have been going on, I don't know when, we could only talk about increased expenditure, if I were to say very simply, in the amount of €60 million, which would be intended to finally start working on rail infrastructure. I would like to draw my own attention to the argument put forward by the European Commission delegation last week, with which we also met representatives of the European Union Affairs Committee. In this regard, the representative of this delegation stated or highlighted the issue of railway infrastructure in the following way: that this is a critical area in Slovenia and that the programme is being implemented too slowly and that it will need to increase funding for Slovenia during this financial perspective, otherwise there is a serious risk that Slovenia will fall out of trans-European links. This has been said many times today. However, this was said in the context of the delegation's verification of the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy Action Plan. The Lisbon Strategy began in 2000. At the level of the smallest municipality, we all know that large and serious projects cannot be carried out in one mandate. The problem we are facing today is the result of a poor part of the Government, which essentially agreed to the Lisbon Strategy, which signed the document, or the governments, which in particular followed the first period following the signing of this document. And today it is really difficult to pursue the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy in this area as well, but I believe that this is an urgent measure that the Government can still do, and clearly does not violate any key items that the budget or public finances must meet, that they are still under control, I would even say that they are very well managed and that they are very well managed. I am surprised today by the debate of some representatives of the former government that this government is unable to manage with public funds so that they can manage better. In fact, I would expect a little more praise, including thanks or praise, for which I think there would be a well-founded basis. I am sure, or to this day, that good economic growth and the good public financial situation of this country are also due to past governments, but it seems, given the criticism that this is not the case. This means that this government works extremely well. The question or criticism of the increase in expenditure or deficit may always be justified in principle, but the objective, as I mentioned earlier, must be seen only by the European Commission and also by the real situation in Slovenia, as already mentioned by the Minister and also by those who criticise it in some way, on the other hand, that this measure is necessary, of course I do not see any problem in this proposal for a rebalancing. I, too, do not think that we actually have anything problematic to discuss. Despite all the concerns about the introduction of tax reform, it is clear after the middle of the year that the matter is going very well, that the forecasts were correct and that the budget is balanced and we can implement it and move on. That is why I would also appeal to my fellow Members to hold to the content of this balance and not to start a new debate on the budget and all the problems that are indirectly related to public finances in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the government, Mr. Minister Christmas?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members. As the question of the implementation of investments has been raised several times this year, it is good to tell honourable Members and Members briefly about all current projects at this time already under way under the Guarantee Act. First of all, I would like to touch on the issue relating to the revision of the TEN network, i.e. in the European Union, as Mr Kokalj pointed out. It is true that this audit will be carried out next year, but I would like to say that Slovenia is paraging on the dynamics and plans that I have also personally presented to Commissioner Jacques Barroso and his staff in the framework of DGtren. On Friday, I hosted in Slovenia as the main coordinator of the 5th European project of the Lord, which is in charge and responsible for the implementation of this project, which was satisfied with the presentation, and in particular with the activities of the Republic of Slovenia which are already taking place in this area. Firstly, it is already the first start-up basis for the provision of the resources necessary to enable projects in the context of the modernisation of the state rail network to begin at all, this is what the Guarantee Act provides us and also the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia on the completion of the main corridors. These are the years that are also already bound and the protocols that have been signed in the past. The Guarantee Act implements 32 projects this year. This is about €94 million in investment value, which is the money that will be spent to modernise the rail network, including €20 million in European funds. Perhaps it would not be bad, or these projects are indeed 32, but if you allow me to go through the most important and crucial and also tell me what stage they are in and what investment values are in full. So it's not just the annual level of realisation, it's the total investment value. Speed increase on the Ljubljana-Maribor route. These are measures on the technique, the restoration of the 22km track, the provision of a basic pressure of 22.5 tonnes, the value of €35 million. Modernisation of safety signals on the Divača-Koper railway line EUR 45 million, beginning February 2007, end February 2010. Modernisation of signal security devices on the Prague-Omoz route, worth €47 million. I also have information that speaks of the share of European funds, but I think we can serve you later with this data. Beginning of April 2007, end of April 2009. Modernisation of the Prague-Ormož railway line. It is construction work, worth EUR 38 million. The contract is already signed on 8.12. last year, the end of the works is foreseen at the end of 2009. Modernisation of the existing Divača-Koper railway line and the technical basis for the modernisation of the existing Divača-Koper line, EUR 114 million planned investments this year, EUR 17 million starting this year, closure 2010. The remote control of the electric tractor, today the first stage or the first part of this call for this part, is foreseen for the completion of this project at the end of 2009. Then there are the professional grounds for the new course of Divac-Koper. The value of the project is €23 million, concluded in 2009. Then it's a reconstruction of the Prague-Hodoš track. It is the beginning of next year and the conclusions of 2011. These are the professional grounds for this route. Then the introduction of the GSM-R system, the digital radio network. A project worth €72 million. This is about the application for TNT projects and cohesion between 2007 and 2008. Then the technical basis of the Trst-Friend connection. It is €70 000 co-financed by Italy in the amount of €400,000, and 300,000 by Slovenia in the year, already signed and already implemented. The technical basis for developing the infrastructure of Ljubljana nodes, again worth just over 2 million and a half euros, the end of next year. Then the renewal of rail lines and the elimination of slow driving, worth 48 million euros. It was the beginning of last year at the end of 2009. Then there are repairs and removals of slow rides on several sections, this is for Gornje Ležeče - Divača, Košana - Upper Ležeče, Sava - Litija, right track, then Kresnice - Laze, left track and Ponikva - Long mountain, left and right track, then reconstruction of the back wall of the Zidani bridge - Roman Toplice, rehabilitation of the left river support bridge over Drava in Maribor. It deliberately releases values that are smaller, or there are around EUR 2 million, then the rehabilitation of the Maribor railway station, then the anti-group fences at the request of the environmental inspector, then the construction of the platform in Ivančna Gorica, the construction of the Lipa overpass in Storach and several smaller projects that are linked to the three axle loads on the Grosuplje-Kočev line, in Kamnik the modernisation of the signal-safety devices for the protection of Kamnik Station, the security of the level crossings, 6 million is the total value, this year 2 million and the end in 2009. And the Koper Railway Station, where €151,000 is being invested and the end of this year is at the end. So much for a little while. In fact, I have deliberately read this list of all the projects that are being implemented, in order to get the real situation, that you are aware of the real situation, that the practical modernisation of the rail network is already starting very intensively this year and will, of course, continue in the coming years. The fact is that what Minister Bajuk said will really be necessary to raise and secure funds of between €9 billion and €10 billion, but this is linked to the acquisition of a strategic partner or other forms of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. If we look at today's debate, it is probably clear to everyone that the essence of this rebalancing is, on the basis of the Rail Transport Act, to provide funds for rail infrastructure. Some fellow Members have announced that they will not support the draft budget. And I want to ask them if you don't know the situation on the railways or if your infrastructure is in good shape. Obviously, you want the international corridor to take place outside our country, perhaps south, as we have already heard today, or north of us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a first-class presentation. I respect the opinion of one of my colleagues, where there is no support for this proposal in the parliamentary group, and he has stated that he will support this proposal because, I think, he knows the situation on the railways and that he knows the Government's good intentions of finally starting to recover. In fact, there is a scenario that has been known for years in the adoption of the balance sheet. The fog is sold, the flossule is sold, a variety of things are sold, which have absolutely nothing to do with the topic that we are dealing with today. Unfortunately, I can't say otherwise. With the input and the rebalancing, we will, in fact, in addition to what the Minister has just told us that a whole bunch of things are already open, that this programme has actually begun to be implemented, we will become credible in the European Union or with our interlocutors and demonstrate the reality of our intention to finally settle the rail infrastructure. With regard to NLB itself, we are certainly united that there is an All-Slovenian consensus that NLB is the most important banking institution that monitors our economy in both the internal and the external markets. It would be unacceptable for us to leave it to strangers. I am sure that citizens and citizens would never forgive us for this. And it is in this context that I see the Government's proposals for recapitalisation, so I will also be happy to support this proposal for a rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u162	Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Just a question, Comrade Veršnik. I know you don't owe me an answer, but please tell me what the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank has to do with the entry of foreigners. Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u164	Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much, President, but I did get this opportunity to replicate, even though I was mentioned three times earlier, but I was not allowed to do that when it was really meant to replicate, but still. Let me tell you first. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u166	Mr. Rezman, that's all I'm saying. We could replicate if we were in a debate earlier. However, since you gave your opinion as the opinion of the parliamentary group, the replica was not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u167	Well, I understand the rules of procedure so you can answer when someone talks about you or your views. But I didn't want to ask for procedure before, and now I don't want to work for you, who's running things. I wondered whether I should respond to gelatinous childishness and primitiveism at all. And yet I decided to do it for a very simple reason, because I used to be a professor of psychology. And what I am about to say is that I am asking Mr Sašo Pece to understand as a charity gesture and as a gesture of psychotherapist. Perhaps something helps him to leave his complexes, perhaps something helps him to resolve himself from some stereotypes he has, and perhaps this has helped him out of the frustrations he is obviously experiencing. Besides, I let him mention me a lot if he thinks he's getting his name by doing something, I'm just afraid mine's going to be losing too much. I would like to take a look at what has been said that Mr Rezman is one of those who is incapable of critical thinking and who is always and only defending government proposals. This, of course, can be said by someone who is too small in this hall, who does not know what people are like and who judges like that, would say, just as he simply comes to his mind. Otherwise, it's very interesting that sometimes, sometimes on my shoulder, I think too much of myself. Those who are more seated in this hall who know what I am saying and know what they hear. However, those who see only themselves and those who hear only their own words and leave immediately after they have spoken are very close to what I have taught as a professor. Those are very close to narcissism. And maybe facing reality is going to help us get out, I'd say, these flaws or these frustrations, which, I'm afraid, are present. I must also say this that, unlike one party who has and operates as a coalition reserve for DeSUS, when DeSUS cancels the coalition, it writes a law which is completely amended by three quarters of the coalition, all articles except the title. And this party or a representative of such a party speaks of being critical. And the president of this party even spoke yesterday about him knowing what a constructive opposition is. Of course, I couldn't tell him that I knew what the opposition was, but he didn't understand constructiveity. Because being very flexible and resourceful in finding your own benefits, of course, does not mean constructive opposition. And that's the client. I admit that to her, very resourceful, very flexible in finding benefits. That this will not take too long, because Mr Sašo Peče is very much interested in leaving the hall, I fear that he does not understand today's debate. That he still does not understand what a budget deficit is and what a deficit of all state finances is and I think he has left the university too quickly. Maybe you weren't enough to sit there. Now for serious questions. What I would like to comment on is the problem of saving. Some wonder whether now it is good economic growth to save or not. Only when economic growth is good can something be saved. When there is no growth, there is no saving. Only when economic growth is good can it be invested. Where there is no growth, it cannot be invested unless we want an additional budgetary and public financial deficit. That's what we say we don't want. And so I say that in my mind, not like those experts who were previously quoted by Dr. Paulia and others, I think that maybe pure theoretical science, I would say, there is not something that should terrorize us in politics at any moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u168	Mr. Pece, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u169	Now, what if my buddy Rezman lets me have a replica? Thank you very much. Believe me, it won't be that long. Did you have a little too much to drink today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u170	I think the lecture's over. Let's move on to the next one. Mr. Joseph Horvath. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u171	I'd like to make this difficult for you, because we are colleagues and friends, but I'm asking you to follow the rules of procedure, and if you can, that primitive shake up when it comes to it. Because when it spills like water in the sand, you can't help it anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I must say this, although I am a fellow Member and a friend, I have given you plenty of time to discuss psychology, which is not entirely related to this point of the agenda. That's why I've also allowed Mr. Pecchet's replica to be fine. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, dear friends, distinguished Minister Bozič, Dr Bayuk is probably out there with his colleagues. I would like to postpone the discussion and call in an hour when there may be some other climate here, but in Parliament a person gets used to everything. The balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 or as my colleague Kokalj has already said, correction. If I simplify a little bit, because we are certainly accompanied by citizens and citizens who do not know much about the budget and allow me to think and perhaps even for those simple citizens, I hope that this is a rebalance that actually concerns only two changes. On the one hand, it is an investment in railway infrastructure, here we all surely agree that it is very necessary, and on the other hand, the second item or another account, the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank to allow strategically important expansions to foreign markets. That's what the finance minister said in his opening speech. Of course, it is also about consolidating the New Ljubljana Bank with the addition of certain companies, which, of course, has been planned for a long time. I can say that I voted in favour of the first item, which is changing in this budget, for investment in rail infrastructure, already in February of this year, when we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act. That is when the organizational scheme of the Ministry of Transport changed. At that time, those of us in the Transport Committee, with this a little bit more work, have been privileged in some way, we were aware that the obligations under this law would have to take over the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, one part of the balance has already been accepted by us in February. It is therefore only the second part, the recapitalisation, which allows Nova Ljubljanska Banka to extend its products to foreign markets, not only in the Slovenian market. Why is that good? Just according to the analogy of the Slovenian economy, which is highly export-oriented to God and export is the generator of such good economic growth in Slovenia, of which we really talk a lot, and I am also convinced that both the Government and the Ministers have sworn, in a way we have sworn before our constituents also Members, and we are all aware that when we are doing well, we must think about how better we would be or should we think about any bad times. That's what every good master does, whether the former president of the country reminds us of it in a speech in Prekmurje or not. I am also pleased with the good structure of the Slovenian economy, so we can find out from statistics that in fact large companies, medium-sized enterprises, small businesses, micro-enterprises, each actually creates about a quarter of gross domestic product. Rebalance has received many critical reviews, certainly also praise, some colleagues have appointed critical assessments of very resonant names, especially economists from Slovenian higher schools, universities. As far as economic experts are concerned, we have a number of types. Some are theorists, others are practitioners, some are the most capable, and they are both. Some theorists are also teachers in Slovenian universities. I appreciate those theories, those teachers who say, "I'm learning because I don't know how to do what I'm learning." But it is not said that these are theorists and even sound names from our universities. [[...]] [[chat in the background]] Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. [[...]] It is not said, however, that the sounds of names from our economic profession or from our Slovenian colleges are never confused. I'll give you an example. In 2002, there was a company where I worked for 22 years, Mura, [[Thank you very much, colleague Friday.]] It was just before the financial break. This company was eligible for State aid and the then Government consulted with economic experts. This advice was in this sense, let us not deal with this business, let us not deal with this company, is practically lost anyway. At the time, this company employed some over 5,500 people. And certainly, on the basis of these worlds, the then government approved too low, I say, and I will always say that, too low state aid. Even if we are looking at net state aid, almost half of the funds have gone back to the country. And this company did not reach that critical mass of energy so that the restructuring could take place normally within a certain period of time. And today he's just where he is. This is proof that in any case it is not necessary to take for granted what we are being taught by some, I stress, some theorists. Some theorists were ministers. But they were, nothing about it. I don't want to talk a lot about numbers, but my colleague Moge - I think he's not here before - just encouraged him, of course, everyone also wants to, not only do we have good economic growth, not only did we take over our common European currency as the first new member of the European Union, but not just because we have, in my opinion, the most beautiful coins in Europe, that we also want European wages as soon as possible. [[...]] And here I'm just gonna use one number. Compared with net April - April 2006 - April 2007, the net earnings in Slovenia grew by 8.3%. The tax reform we adopted in this National Assembly must have contributed to this. This tax reform has certainly also contributed to creating a more favourable environment for the development of Slovenian entrepreneurship. And if I'm in entrepreneurship, allow me some more local patriotism. I have read with satisfaction the information that companies or the entire economy in the statistical region, called Pomurje, have increased net profit in 2006 compared to 2005 by 60 times, by 6,000%! I'm not saying it's just this government and this coalition. It is certainly clear here that they have come true and that some projects are being implemented, which must have started a long time ago. But something is certain, and it is our common interest, the common interest of this coalition and the commitment also in the coalition agreement to create an environment for the development of not only large, medium and small enterprises, but also micro-enterprises. And that's what we saw yesterday when we did the first reading of the craftsman's marriage. I have no reason not to support this correction of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would like to discuss the claim made by some of my predecessors' colleagues, and certainly the minister has already explained it, but apparently some things need to be heard several times that they can be intercepted. First of all, there's no reason to accept the balance. If I'm only talking about the railway area, it's clear. With the amendment of the Rail Transport Act, certain powers have been transferred from the agencies to the Directorate. The Agency also has some open credits, an open liability from previous years. The Guarantee Act, which we have adopted to provide funds for the operation of the Agency and indirectly for investment in railway infrastructure, is no longer operational and therefore these matters need to be settled in the balance. In practice, some of the projects already under way were before they stopped because no funding was provided. With this rebalancing, we will actually prevent these projects from stopping, or even that some of the funds we have already received from the European Union should even be recovered. The second claim is that the deficit is increasing. That's not true either. This rebalancing does not create any new obligations, but only the obligations previously incurred at the agency are transferred to the state budget because the department is within the Ministry and only through the budget can these open obligations be covered. And that's it. We didn't increase anything, nothing. It's like instead of taking it from the left pocket, but it's still the same budget. We know that the founder of the agency is the Republic of Slovenia, and in fact it is a matter of some obligations to the State. Third, which is, I would like to quote here in particular the respected colleague of Brickle, the Master of Economics, the recognized financial expert who claimed that this government had drilled the hole, but we are covering these holes that we are covering with this rebalancing. I'd stop here a little bit more because I don't think that's true. Let's take a look at some data. The former Government, in which the Social Democracy, which is a member of today’s colleague Cvikl, led by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, was a member of Slovenia in 2003 and 2004, indirectly or directly leased several loans to various banks in Slovenia, namely 16.7.2003 - 3 billion Slovenian Tolars, 20.8.2003 - 3 billion Slovenian Tolars, 17.10.2003 - 12 million Euros, 13.12.2003 - 3.2 billion Tolars, 9.3.2004 - 3.5 billion Tolars and 24.8.2004 - 3.5 billion Tolars. This is about €80 million, €80 million, by providing State guarantees for these loans, by not having real resources for the agency that leased these loans. For example, in 2003 there was no use for rail infrastructure financed by these funds, and in 2004 the use of 50 million Slovenian tolars was in place, meaning that once again an agency that did not have the resources to cover these credits would have been in a position to no longer service these debts and would have taken over these liabilities in any way. And these are the holes that Mr. Squeakl claims this government has been screwing with. Therefore, this claim is not true, with this rebalancing, we are transferring these commitments that have occurred over the past years, transferring them to the budget, and actually clarifying once, how much we owe, what we have and what we don't have. And that's it. That is why, of course, I support the rebalancing, and I also support it, not only to clarify once what is going on with these old debts, but also to ensure that these ongoing rail projects continue to be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch. Yes, I'm sorry, you have a replica of Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Mikolitch, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to replicate the fact that, of course, I said that, but that doesn't mean that this hole is being drilled by this government. Indeed, we would not be sitting here today if we adopted an amendment in November 2007 to increase the amount of money for Slovenian railways. In 2006, when we adopted the 2007 budget or amendments, we would not be sitting here at all. If then the amendments, and even the opposition, proposed these amendments, accepted, there would be no need for a rebalancing. But no. At that time, Minister Bajuk, at the meeting of his mother's working body, made a complete withdrawal so that why we claim that this will have to be included in the budget. It was already known that Mr Bozic, Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for transport, made it clear to Mr Bozic: an agency that does not have assets cannot be charged with funds that will contribute to the co-financing of European funds by Slovenia. That is why, of course, a mistake was made in November 2006. However, it is essential whether you would accept the amendment at that time, or whether you are here today with increased expenditure to increase the hole you then drilled. The amendment envisaged a reduction in funds in other items, for example, on an item called: financing for purchase of already disputed armoured personnel. And there were a few other items. And that's why the fact is very simple. The government drilled the hole by adopting a guarantee law for an agency that does not have real resources. That's the problem we talk about all the time. And let me just say it again. We are not opposed to an increase in funds for the railway programme. After all, the previous Government in June 2004 in the European Council managed to include this so-called part of the East-West Corridor in the trans-European projects, which we will be funding from today's adopted balance. Who do you think did it then, if not the previous government? There's no conflict here. It is disputed that in the budgets of 2005, 2006, 2007 until the 2007 balance, you have not found enough space and you have not found it yet, but you are increasing the gap, with good economic results. We're opposed to that. However, we do not object to the implementation of what was agreed at European Union level in June 2004 and have repeatedly warned that European money will fall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u178	The replica is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u179	[[I'm done.]] and now in July 2007 you remembered to come with a rebalancing. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Dear President, welcome, distinguished minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I will first support the proposed rebalancing because it is in line with the legislation currently in force. I couldn't agree more with those of you who explained that there was no need for a rebalancing. I must say that some have also surprised me at the performances, especially those talking about the exhibition performance by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I must say, both of you have given a convincing explanation as to why a balance is needed. When the performance ended, Dr. Bayuk, I actually felt that I had nothing left to discuss about the rebalancing, because everything was clearly said. But I would like to tell some here, about duality, when we are discussing resolved matters. Is there a need for a balance sheet, or does it need to be included in the budget on the expenditure side of this €60 million? I think it's precisely because we've adopted the law. The law of Rail transport is the basis for financial resources to go into the budget. I don't know how many hours we've been discussing a single item, I think it was worth about a billion tolars, I think it was the necessary funds for the media because we didn't have a law. This was the main opposition to the budget item. There is no law and we cannot have an item in the budget. It's totally different today. You have proposed, as the opposition, now I do not know whether the LDS or SD at that time, the correction, has added to the need to provide these financial resources. But we know very well where you were taking your money: from the Ministry of Defence, because you wanted to bring my defence minister this year, next year without an army, if I say at home, because you wanted to collect all the money. Yesterday, however, when there was a debate here that more funding should be provided for the Ministry of Defence precisely because of certain problems in the Slovenian Army Act. And for me, it's a duplicity. About the hole, the financial hole you're explaining, given how we now accept the budget's balance sheet, it's certainly not some kind of patching of a financial hole. However, there was a patching of the financial hole in 2005, which is somehow not comparable when the then government forgot 70 billion tolars, which had to be legally assured that the state was functioning. I think then Minister Gaber forgot his teacher's salary. I think we could work free from September. I don't know now, or in elementary schools, high schools, I know we had to, I think there was a question of about 8 billion tolars. Not to mention the other items, I say again, which were probably, and I will say now, under the terms "forgotten", they were not planned in the budget. But no investment, they weren't investments, they were the country's statutory obligations to budgetary consumers. As far as deficits are concerned. Somehow, I don't understand certain debaters when you're interpreting this particular area very populistally, how now there is a great opportunity for good economic growth to be saved. I agree with that, too. But please, then we need to look at the whole period that this Government has done on the one hand for economic development, which is actually due to good economic growth. If we have kept on the income side the same amount of financial resources while at the same time giving up some of the great revenue of the past, which was a huge tax burden on the economy, then I do not know if this is savings. Do you think it is just saving if we reduce expenditure on the expenditure side, while at the same time explaining on a large scale how we have to take care of social security, that somehow we will be able to ensure that employers on the one hand are satisfied, on the other hand, workers, which in fact results in a certain cost on the expenditure side, then certainly it does not hold, does not drink water, regarding this explanation of savings. I think that this Government has done a great deal with the adopted budget, the 2005 revised budget, adopted for 2006 and this year, to ensure that we have a budget that, on the one hand, provides everyone who depends on this budget with one quality or, if I may say so, the well-being of all citizens and citizens. Thank you. I'd be done with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In his debate, the Minister said he really regretted that we would be discussing this for seven hours because it was just some kind of technical law. Mr. Minister, I must say that I agree with you here. If we applied Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, of course, if we put money on the Ministry of Transport, the Railways Department, and applied the provision that says that the law was passed, we could take this story away without a balance. The only point on which we are formally sitting here today is the New Ljubljana Bank and the recapitalisation. But here's the thing. If this is a technical law and if everyone in this Chamber today agrees, with regard to Slovenian Railways, I suggest that there is really no necessary excitement. We all agree that we do not want Slovenia to be the appendix of the fifth, tenth corridor, so, of course, in the opposition, we only regret that it took you seven, eight months to make a substantive attachment to our November 2006 amendments, to which you all were vehemently opposed. Of course, it is necessary to say that the way you bring it is insecure, so the numbers show. And in this regard, allow me because I have just been able to collect relevant information from the websites, but let us take a few walks after what was the public consumption in the Republic of Slovenia during the previous government and how it is during the current government. And to, of course, use the same [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I will use the methodology that Members also know when you are mayors or city councilors, this is the methodology of paid realization. [[...]] In 2001, in the first year of this second or third Drnovskov government, public consumption 43.99; in 2002 public consumption 43.55; in 2003 43.96 and in the last year of the Robbery Government 44.1%. And then a promise in a coalition contract to reduce public spending by 2, 3, even 4%, some claim. Let's look at the data: the first year of the Bajuk government, the consolidated, the public funding balance, the comparison with the domestic gross product, 44.4, 0.3% or some over 90 million euros more than at the time of the Robbery Government, 2006, the final realization of 44.42, again 90 million euros more. And if we didn't have this balance, for 2007 it would be 44.1 and so it will be if we take into account expenditure of 0.2, 44.3. But this is where the interesting story begins. For 2008 and 2009, according to the stability programme, this government says, miraculously in 2009, with so-called not-known measures, which the European Commission does not know about, we have managed to reduce public spending to 42.5% or almost 2% of GDP, that is, GDP will be estimated at around 35 billion, that is 700 million euro lower spending. Well, it is no wonder that, of course, the European Commission says nicely, where and by what measures you will do so. Today you all mention how pleased you are with the state of Slovenian public finances. I will quote the June 2007 report of the European Union, current developments, current developments and forecasting. Of the 27 countries, Slovenia is one of the 7 countries with the highest risk. In addition to Slovenia, Portugal and Greece are also the euro groups among these countries, and of course the text has been very clear: Slovenia will have great challenges with public finances due to population ageing. This is why they estimate that even though the initial budgetary situation has contributed to the reduction of the debt share in public spending - let me recall, in particular because NLB's sales and some others have been realized - and a small structural effort over the programming period does not ensure that the negative budgetary effects could be neutralised due to structural changes. To put it simply: as more money will have to be spent on health care, pension bills, for the provinces, which we will talk about tomorrow, even for the municipalities, it would be necessary to act in a cost-effective manner on the budget. Slovenia is therefore among the 27 countries and among the 13 countries of the euro group, among the seven most risky and among the three most risky groups. This is the situation in Slovenia, which is why a number of economists and also the opposition rightly expect Mr. Minister of Public Finance, before coming to the National Assembly and saying that we need to raise public spending by 0.7% in order to spend EUR 8 billion 100 million of public spending, after years you have to look at the minister, from 8.1 billion to 60 million euros of savings. The Minister of Finance probably knows this, but it usually happens at the end of each year that about a percentage of up to two public spending is simply not carried out. You know that, each one in his own congregation, when you look at spending primarily on investments and expenditure. And he could have done it peacefully, Mr. Secretary. But no. Public consumption is increasing needlessly with today’s rebalancing and additional pressure on consumption is generated needlessly. And the big question that we are going to discuss in a few months in this National Assembly will be: with what measures will you gentlemen in the ruling coalition ensure that the 2009 draft budget, which this Government will have to bring at the end of this year, will provide for 700 million euro less spending in relation to the situation in 2007 after this rebalancing? I will be very pleased to look at the structure of these budgets and then, when this is submitted, of course, I will believe that the promises of the stability programme will also be fulfilled. Right now, these are promises, and the data we have right now cannot prove it to us. And I am right to say another very specific information that is possible close to those Members involved in European projects as well as to the mayor and possibly to the citizens. We predicted that in 2007 we would receive approximately 582 million euros of money from the EU. By the end of May, according to the Ministry of Finance, less than a quarter of this money had arrived by the end of June. In the EU, we are expected to pay about 320 million euros. And we have already paid EUR 165, 168 million to the European Union, but we have earned EUR 150 million. And we have a negative €15 million in relation to the European Union. Since we do not have lump sums in 2007, this money is potentially money that will have a negative impact on the structure of our public finances. This is what the economist says, is the so-called Portuguese syndrome and the big promises are low-efficiency drawbacks, so we estimate that the government does not operate sufficiently cost-effectively and therefore, as the European Commission says, our Slovenian public finances are high-risk. This is probably not what Mr Bajuk will be dealing with, and other governments will be concerned with it, and it is bad, as Mr Marjan Senjur said, that this Government will also contribute to the management of Slovenian public finances. Well, as you know, it wasn't, and I assume that's why he resigned as president of the Strategic Council. As he said on the issue of reform, the answer was "What reforms?".. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think it is important, not only because of this National Assembly, but also because of listeners or viewers who are still following this debate to explain some things. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain. I can explain something, please. Excuse me. In his speech, the speaker compared things that were not comparable. Indicating data by cash flow or data by ESA, according to a methodology that is also, in fact, the one we need to use and use with our relations with the European Commission and the European Central Bank. Let me explain and ask that you are also those who have spoken and do not want to take this into account to write it down. In 2004, on the basis of formal data, the public consumption was 48.1% of GDP. In 2001, next year, 48.9%. In 2002 - 48%, in 2003 - 48%, in 2004 - 47.4%. So in five years he's practically kept to level 48 plus. In 2005, the public spending was 47%, in 2006 - 46.3%, in 2007 it will be up to 45.1% and on the basis of our calculations and the already adopted budget and what we know today will be in 2008 - 44.4%. And for those of you who asked, "Reforms"? What reforms?" Here is the reform: 3% of GDP lower public spending in four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u187	See, Mr Minister, of course, we must decide that the information you have at your disposal should also be made available to the Slovenian public. The Slovenian public shall have data from the budgetary memorandum. And according to the same data from the 2000 budget memorandum, according to the same methodologies, no change until 2007 but an increase in public spending by EUR 100 million. But around those who asked about reforms, I quoted Mr Marjan Senjur from Finance. The question was how it assesses the reforms of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The answer was, "What reforms?"
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr. Stab, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the debate of some honourable Members has gone in a completely different direction, such as the subject of the rebalancing, on some bookkeeping level and also on a psychological level. I don't even know why you need to look for tips from some other subject and not even properly screwed. Not even the right material is for someone who doesn't have any more arguments for just two reasons to push that sausage forward, which is why we are dealing with the rebalancing today. And this is, in my opinion, the first balance of the current budget of this government. It is said that in the current year of implementation of the budget it is being corrected for fully understandable reasons. If we just look at NLB, which will recapitalise itself because of its strategic direction, expanding to markets, where we should not be late in fact to strengthen in these markets and expand its area of operation, so that the owner, one of the important owners, retains its share. Why? Because this Government is aware; and this has not been disputed for most Members - it is aware of the importance of the bank in its country, which is able to properly and properly service its economy. I am not talking about the fact that the bank must be state-owned, but that it is a strong bank that is capable of servicing its economy at any moment. This is also understood by those ambassadors who say that Slovenia is not friendly to foreign investors and, say, buyers of those pearls of the Slovenian economy, which, in fact, if you want me to use this term, are of national importance. I do not see any reason why the purchase from the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, the poor half of it, should be made for such strategic direction as this Government and this country in this bank to be adequately paired by the State, the important co-owners of this bank. But as far as the railways are concerned, this balance is, in my opinion, pure technique. Dear Members, a big hole has already emerged from the Agency's past operation. In the past, the Government has not been provided in a timely manner for the separation of infrastructure, says the infrastructure manager, from the one providing services on this infrastructure. And I understand this transformation of public rail transport as this move that implementation, the care of public rail infrastructure is transferred to the Ministry in the form of a Directorate, so that this agency remains and assumes only a supervisory and security function and is in line with the requirements of the Directive and the requirements for the separation of these functions with regard to operators and entities. The Minister of Transport explained what is necessary, in fact, the usefulness of this infrastructure, that it is necessary to serve and remedy and actually improve the existing infrastructure for what we have decided to do in approving the law. These are just emergency rescues and improvements, where there is still modernisation. And the Minister of Finance and also the Prime Minister indicated that the real modernisation of the amount requiring a financial contribution of between €8 and €10 billion would be possible only through a public-private partnership, with the principle of "Build-Operate-Transfer" and that this railway infrastructure is possible in a short time because others do not outrun us and that we use the moment of the conjucture, also the right time, and pick up some of the money, divert heavy freight transport to the railways, that this is the only way that we can actually modernise this infrastructure and "fasten" the ride on the railway. Some countries have been building a third generation of fast trains, and we have not reached the basic routes of Austro-Hungarian railways that were built before World War I. Thus, I do not see any reason why some are looking for completely different topics in today's debate and stalling this debate, rather than actually concluding and reaffirming this balance, which is one of the national interests of the Ljubljana Bank, because it has to expand and strengthen in the markets, and the other is completely technical and necessary, and every government should do so. And all these holes that are mentioned are the result of past inactions, and they should be blocked and massaged by every serious government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! First, it must be said that this is already the second balance of the 2007 budget. We discussed this for the first time in December last year. Well, I would like to say this: one of the members of the coalition, earlier this afternoon, some three hours ago, said how they listened last year to the opposition Member, who described the disastrous state of public finances. And I looked at what the opposition Members said in the previous mandate when we were considering state budgets. Dr. Bajuk, current minister, the then opposition leader of New Slovenia, first warned that he was speaking an empty hall and that he was already used to it. He was primarily referring to chairs intended for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, too, the situation is similar. Only the Minister of Transport is sitting here. I think the Minister of Finance is somewhere in the foyer. Well, then Dr. Bajuk said that we are poorly planning public spending, that we are saying something, and that we are doing something else; that neither clear nor investment projects are clear. That's what the mag was talking about. Visjak, today's Minister of Economy, the then SDS Member, says that there has been no serious macroeconomic analysis, that we have a exaggerated budget, that there is no clear anti-inflation programme. How, then, would we accept the euro, which is also due to the former government. Dr. Miha Brejc also then answered and said that, with any change, this government was making the state's public finances worse, and then he was still very graphic and said, if I listened to this government, a man would say, "you'll be draining milk and honey." In fact, he said, "we'll eat bread and onions." To conclude, colleague Jožef Jerovšek, now a member of the coalition, and then an opposition SDS member. He says, three years ago, that was December 2003 that the country was quite close to bankruptcy - it is said, far from that, nothing has been realized what was said at the time. Then he paraphrased then German opposition leader Angelo Merkel and said he knew exactly who was responsible for the situation in the economy and in public finances in our country. And he concluded, "There is certainly a need to stop this government." I agree with you, Mr Jerovšek, and this government must also be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you. It's a replica. Mr. Steba, you weren't appointed. Mr. Bevk, did you name him, I'm not [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The debate is, of course, about all these issues. [[...]] And this is a controversial debate, this is normal. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. In this general part of the rebalancing it is of course important to look at revenue and expenditure, but perhaps only one short, first for the introduction of a review of certain revenues and also a comment on this. One of the first tax revenues is income, and we talked a lot about this income in the tax package, and the minister quoted this package today and presented it as one of the more successful ones. However, if we touch on income, it means that we are raising money for those who are paying income, and the fact is that we have changed the provisions in this law concerning investment in housing so that all those who have so far been exempt from investment in housing will not be able to do so after this new law. However, there is a sum of up to €40 million, which will be collected annually from this title and paid in essence by those country women and locals who are solving their housing problem. So it is an important resource in this budget, but it directly intervenes with a certain citizen or citizen. And that is why it is very important how we classify these tax revenues in the budget, and not least that the impact of such allocated funds is as high as possible. With regard to these sources, I would like to raise a few more questions at this first stage, or I would like to raise a few more questions with these sources, including funding from the European Union budget for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. We have talked a lot about these sources for the common agricultural policy, and the Minister of Agriculture has probably had to step down for some reason. Indeed, the adoption of the 2008-2008 budget has made it very clear that this budget provides full funding for subsidies under the common agricultural environmental policy. The fact is that later it turned out to be missing, then I think somewhere around EUR 5 billion, I think it's about EUR 3 million right now. Well, I am interested because there are no changes in this budget in the area of how the budget closes these commitments in 2007, because it is the funds that were lacking in the 2007 budget and I do not see any changes in that. However, the fact is that it is the resources that people have already invested in their production, which they expect, not in the three-year period that they have talked about, but in the year in which it should be, it is also a recovery. Well, this rebalancing does not touch this and I therefore specifically ask how this problem is resolved within or in the field of agricultural policy. There is also no change in the means to remedy natural disasters in this budget, and the fact is that in 2006 we met with catches, droughts, in short, damage to agricultural crops, and the fact is that the Government has also adopted a programme and a final assessment of direct damage in 2006 due to these concerns, but we know that the euro has not yet been paid for these damages. And I want to know what this is all about. Therefore, if there is a lack of resources in the budget, I would somehow expect the Government to respond to this in 2006 which will fall to the 2007 balance. However, the figures show that there is, in fact, no change in this area. If the Government has adopted this programme, then I think that it should be implemented and that, if there is no means, it will also provide funds for this. In addition to these two specific questions on these obligations, I would like to highlight the topic which is in fact also the subject of today's balance sheet most of the time. As a result of the adopted law on railways. We have discussed much about whether this concept, which has been adopted, is correct, whether this concept, which will mean the further development of the Slovenian Railways and that we will get this system out of losses and that we will finally get strategic partners who will help us develop this system and, finally, improve both freight and passenger transport. The key issue already in this law was an important source, but it may not even be a direct source for this budget, but I think we should mention it. If we are talking about motorways, we are talking about tolls as the most important resource that allows for the return of the extremely large loans that have been leased, let us at least hope that they will be returned if they do not fall into the budget. If we're talking about other roads, state roads, we're talking about an annual return on roads. This revenue is in this budget. Of course, what will be the use - specifically, I would like to ask the Government - for the use of the rail network? On the basis of the guarantees we have issued or the guarantees we have accepted, 440 million Euros of high guarantee that we have accepted in Slovenia are EUR 110 million, which you are transferring due to the adopted railway law to the budget from the public railway agency. So, how are we actually going to repay these loans if we don't have any use on Slovenian railways or Slovenian railways? This is one of the key issues that is missing when we talk about whether this balance is good or bad, or whether the development of Slovenian railways will be effective or not. The utility is one of the issues that we have not resolved in this system. I am afraid that even because it has not been taken into account, I will say, somehow we can call this even our proposal to organise Slovenian railways as two subsidiaries, one company would include maintenance and management of public rail infrastructure and the management of rail transport, so this is a so-called economic public service that cares for rails. However, another company would be established for the transport of goods and for the transport of passengers. Today we would probably have an easier conversation with potential investors on the Slovenian network, because the company for maintenance and management of public rail infrastructure would certainly be the clear interlocutor who would try to get interested, including private partners, in order to update the railway network as soon as possible. If I have correctly observed, it is a total amount to be collected in Slovenia, even €8 billion. And, of course, it will be very important that we include private capital in this project, so that we do not burden so much the budget, because that would not be the level of one of our budgets. And this development, which will follow this rebalancing, I fear that it will not be as effective and perspective-oriented as we want to show today that we will have the railways all at once and that everything will be fine and right. We have to ask ourselves, who will be able to drive all these tracks, whether they will drive free of charge, whether they will use our tracks only in Slovenian railways, which is contrary to the European Union Directive. In short, these issues are not cleared up in this issue that we are discussing today. I think that we should invest significantly more energy in cleaning up these issues and that there will be no private partner in the Slovenian Railways system and will say that I am interested in the fifth and tenth corridors and that all the other regional lines will probably or almost certainly not be interested because they do not generate enough revenue. And if the country does not have control over Slovenian railways, then I say that all regional lines in Slovenia will become uncompetitive, uninteresting for investment and that all those places where they lead these regional lines will be cut off from the Slovenian Railway System. In particular, I'm going to point out [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u194	Mr. Weber, a moment. I ask Members of Parliament to discuss in circles there at the door and elsewhere, step into the hall and talk, and do not disturb the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you. Well, I'm going to point out exactly the particular problem that happened today in Kočev. Slovenian railways shall send a representative to the nomadic economy using these tracks and also wagons for the carriage of goods in order to break the railway line against Kočev or freight. I do not share this balance and these activities of the Slovenian Railways. Who and why, I'm going to ask, has he sent anyone to Kočevje to stop this regional route, which is just freight traffic now? This rebalancing is an integral part of the development programme, and it is also part of the laws we have adopted so far. So, what's this all about? Is it already being prepared that we are, of course, trying to remove these regional lines from further agreements with the public-private partner at all at this stage, since it is noted that Slovenian railways are too expensive and that users prefer freight transport rather than railways. So it's a system where you're artificially creating conditions for you to find that there's no traffic, it's not profitable, we're going to close this line. If Slovenian railways were to be competitive with freight transport, this would not be the case and transport would also be increased on regional routes. Moreover, I really expect that, in addition to the realization of what is written on this track in this balance, the next visit to the Slovenian Railways in Kočev will also be linked to the establishment of a new passenger transport. It is also a matter of dividing costs, decommissioning freight traffic and of serving both passenger transport and freight, thereby establishing the competitiveness of that economic part of the Slovenian Railways which is involved in the transport of goods. And once again, I point out this problem that we really need to pay more attention to what is happening to us, and I really hope that we will no longer talk - at least in Kočev - about stopping freight traffic, but that the next visit will be to establish passenger traffic and actually update this network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. The budget balance we are talking about today has two main points: the first relates to the construction of railways and the second through the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank; so we have heard. Now the different opinions that we have had in the debate so far and probably will be similar in the future, we have already heard that they do oppose each other, at least in the field of railways. On the one hand, we hear that it is not a fundamental change, that it is essentially just a bookkeeping issue, how money is put into the other, i.e. the budget. On the other hand, to explain this, we can hear how the rehabilitation of railways is urgently needed, how the railways are in a catastrophic state, and how this is certainly sufficient, necessary and even necessary argument that this balance of the budget is indeed accepted - contrary to itself in essence and of origin! If we do not get any more money for railways with this translation, why would it benefit from the development of railways, which, by the way - I agree with this, and I have repeatedly warned my colleague about this - indeed in a catastrophic state, both in terms of organisation and in terms of infrastructure and business, as shown by the business results, in particular the loss that we have been able to see in railways for a very long time. For this reason, I am interested in, and I would like a concrete answer, whether this rebalancing of Slovenian Railways will make them better, why they will be better off, to what extent this improvement will be made, and especially when it will be possible to bring from Murska Sobota to Ljubljana in European comparable times. This distance is essentially too short for four hours as it is today. On the other hand, we can see that the fact that the deficit is now increasing has already been anticipated, or that we now have a deficit of 1.2%, in fact, before, only with a skilled accounting trick has been shown differently, hidden, hidden and reduced to 1%. That's how we can imagine it, and that's basically what it is. And the other thing that we're talking about today, which is the content of this rebalancing, is the recapitalisation of NLB. On this point, it is only possible that, given the experience that Pomurci have had with the NLB taking over the Pomur Bank, given the changed attitude towards domestic investors and, of course, those who have come to our bank at times for credit, and the cooperation with this bank or the response of this bank today, those whose NLB will now take over would not want these recapitalisations to be and would still remain their domestic banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer some questions from a large number raised by Mr Weber, but unfortunately it is not. He asked what the Government had done, concerning subsidies for agriculture, which had actually been shown to be greater this year than envisaged. Let me say that when we prepared and addressed the 2007 budget, we did not have such data by the Agency for Agricultural Markets. This only happened later when they actually calculated how much actual feedback or response from Slovenian farmers to this call for proposals they made for funds for certain activities and it turned out to be greater. The government has already taken action by redistributing funds within the budget, and this year it will be paid for. Otherwise, it has also been done that it will pay in one year, we could stretch in two, but for now we can arrange it. We have within us the powers given to us by the Law on Public Finance and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, only by redistribution in all ministries can this obvious error, which has been made by this agency, be covered. And that's what she's gonna pay for this year. As for the problems that were caused in 2006. The government has indeed addressed this, as you know, in accordance with the standards that also apply in other European countries - this can be paid within two years. The government has committed that, if funds are available this year, we will partially cover this year, if not in 2008. As for the second question, how would it be better if Slovenian railways were arranged and divided into one, two or three companies; one that would actually serve and the other that would make a loss? The answer from the Government, and this is based on what I have already presented in my opening presentation and even later on, I would say the following; the only way that Slovenian railways would actually work and that they would not be a burden for taxpayers is if they finally joined the logistics network of Europe. There's no other solution than that! And it is impossible to find solutions if we share one way of doing business with one company and another, there must be a unit here, which everyone who has analysed these problems and knows the good experience of other European problems in this area understands that in fact today, in today's world it is not a system to ensure profitability from one station to another. Actual profitability is if any logistics network from door to door works, this is our purpose, this is the direction we are going, and this is the proposal we are working on, and we will present it to this National Assembly in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you. Is there still interest after the discussion on the general part of the budget rebalancing proposal? More. I'm opening the application. Mr. Friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Minister with co-workers! So it is perfectly clear to me that the balance of the budget is necessary, and I will support it myself. But when we listen to wisdom about what else could be done on the railway. I understand that Mr Webra is the last, somewhere in Kočev the tracks end and so on, that they may have a little fear and concern. But, look, freight traffic doesn't make a loss, freight traffic does a profit, and even railroaders do everything they can under impossible infrastructure conditions. I am pleased that the Minister has gone, I will say, with us, along with the Transport Committee, that this is an infrastructure situation on the Ljubljana-Koper track that he has also seen. I would like to say here that we have a line from Austro-Hungarian; the duality of the line, the lower structure is the same as then. And we haven't done another serious repair on it. We were essentially changing some top structures, but the bottom, the grammatical beam is the same as it was back then. And the mud shall do its own work, and the mud shall also pour out, and the rain. Those who do not know how many slow trips each day are prescribed on a passport or a travel assignment, the driver simply cannot judge what the infrastructure is. This budget balance is too late. It should have happened sooner. Because we have so neglected this railway infrastructure, today we have great economic damage. No one was responsible for that. This government inherited a 70 billionth hole in this rail system. I believe that Mr Bajuk could have been angry when he discovered all of these under the carpet of blurry problems. We had a national programme for the development of railway infrastructure adopted in 1994, and we have achieved it to date only 13%. Shame. We've got new locomotives, 20 of them bought, interoperable. And these locomotives can only drive with one-stop-shop power, up to half because we've got the rolling nets of "too thin". If we load them all the way down, the train network goes down. We don't even have enough money to replace the wires. These are the facts. Not to mention the signal - safety technique that is outdated; not to mention the means of driving that are as they are. We also have trucks that are obsolete. They are not capable of so-called interoperable shipments. And anyone who doesn't know the situation on the railroad, don't comment on it, please. I can be sad when I find that we have spent 60 million for the European Union's leadership or for the presidency, the first 100 for the railways. We'd need a lot more! But, the beginning is, we have basically all the legislation adopted, so I'm happy, the last law was the Rail Safety Act, which allows investment and opening of course, of course, investment, for projects that are already ready and waiting for years, but we were unable to start projects because the relevant legislation was not prepared in this National Assembly. And now no more excuses, stay, I'll say, just minus in time, maybe some time battle we lost, and we have to look at not to lose the war - because in time, we have money. I believe that we also have knowledge, we have experts, and this was the purpose of the last visit, where we also told the Minister that knowledge exists in Slovenia, that it needs to be combined and that it is necessary to tell these commissions or those groups that will work to solve individual partial problems, that implementation work needs to be accelerated. The country can contribute to shortening the legal and administrative procedures. If we don't do this, we're essentially going to lose the cargo that we're losing today, that's clear to everyone. Our cargo is leaking, the Croats are accelerating to build a link with Hungary and the Italians are already marketing an excellent Pontebian line, which is longer in connection to Hungary, but more upright, and in this case they can also be more aggressive because it is also modelly arranged in Villach, essentially an arrangement center. I am also pleased to decide by the Government that what is not yet in Slovenia will happen, that we are becoming the first in transport logistics in Southeast Europe, and, ladies and gentlemen, when you comment on the railway, you need to know that in Sežana and Divac, a transport and logistics centre is being created, which will be three times as big as the logistics centre now the largest in Graz. These are matters that require huge financial investments. And if we're only talking about this one, that's 180 million euros, about 100 hectares of land. Of course, I am critical when we talk about the so-called public-private partnership and when we know nothing about what it will bring Slovenia. I would like to say very carefully here, in essence, that I place both Mr Bayuk and Mr Minister of Transport, mag. Christmas, on the heart of "we don't give up dicks that lay golden eggs." Today we have loads that are essentially profitable for us in a railway sense. I'm talking about container trains, car trains, wheat for Hungary, oil derivatives, etc. If we're going to hand these goods over to a partner who's coming, to a German, then the fact is, he's going to be picking up profits from these cargoes, too. I am in favour of making a mixed company, trust, I don't know, a company, holding company or whatever we want, but that those new products that gentlemen partners will bring to Luka Koper are subject to their marketing. All that food for 9,000 head today, which works on Slovenian railways and is profitable and brings profits - we know that passenger traffic covers with subsidies of the state - must remain in our hands because they are "golden chickens" who "bear golden eggs". And these trains are awfully few if we add them up. It's a couple of trains, so we're done. So I would be very careful of that and I would ask once again, in fact I am asking the Government to be careful here. If the Germans come and buy 49% or 50% of the share, they will also take what is profitable today and what today brings employment to a 9,000 - year - old crowd who have three more family members at home. And it can represent this if we break this system, for the government too in a social sense, because these people will not be silent. I'll be the first to protest at the head of this column if we see that we've actually made normal work impossible for these people to take a piece of white bread from them. But I am in favour of giving the railroaders the conditions to work and then asking them to do what is right, because a worker on a blender without a shovel cannot prepare the mortar; impossible, with his hands he cannot sweep so much sand. That's what's going on on the railroad right now. We are going to transport a cargo from point A to point B with a technique that is outdated, dangerous to people and endangers lives as well. General safety, safety and regulation of rail transport are now at a very low point. I wouldn't want some wildling to happen, to have wagons on the pile and bodies like we had. So I'd like everything that's drawn to begin as soon as possible. And I don't care if the Railways Directorate in Maribor or Ljubljana or in Juzemberk or in Upper Kungota, I don't care where it is. Start, for God's sake, releasing this money already, and let's start building this rail infrastructure that's obsolete, like it, is useless. As I have already said, I welcome this budget rebalancing, with the hope that next year we will continue with the larger investment cycle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u203	I would like to continue the discussion concluded by my colleague. I think that there is also a reflection of the issue that we have been under-aware of so far in these debates, what will actually happen to the 10,000 people who are currently employed in the Slovenian Railways. And that's what we wanted to point out when we passed the railroad law, but there wasn't a response like we're listening to right now, but that's what's going to happen. However, we must also be aware that this will not happen to this government, this will happen in the next term. However, it is important that we are truly aware of this problem today and that we clarify this question of how the system can function at all. So that this issue of the use and use of Slovenian railways, it appears, will be resolved in a way that we will sell everything together to someone else, a third, who will manage and manage this network. Of course, this raises the question of why we are investing in it today if we sell it to a third party tomorrow. As for the answer and this question about the drought, I am, in fact, somewhat surprised; although the Government is aware that this obligation exists, that damage occurred in 2006, the beneficiaries will, as it turns out, be able to reach this money only in 2008 or perhaps even later. I think that this problem should be resolved in this rebalancing and that these damages are being paid, because, nevertheless, it is a matter of the fact that, as a result of this, there has been a large loss of rural income and that the second loss of income has certainly been linked to the poor work, as has been said, of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, which has not planned all the commitments in the 2007 and 2008 budget adoption process. Of course, I am pleased that they have allocated these funds clearly within other sources, if I have understood the Minister of Finance correctly, not only within the agricultural field, but I certainly believe that this drought could also be completed in this rebalancing and solved in the rural areas, which are mainly faced by those who live from agriculture. I think it's one of the most serious shortcomings of this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u205	Those who accompany us have previously heard some strange numbers from the Minister. Of course, it is necessary to explain why the minister’s numbers gave rise to a fall. Mr. Minister Christmas knows the answer. In 2004 consumption was 47.4, in 2005 consumption was 47.0, but in 2005 we eliminated Dars' funding from the state budget and thus from Slovenian public finances; or else: Dars was sent to debt, so apparently, fictitious spending is declining. That's like having five children and saying, for one term, I'll send one child to your aunt, you owe this aunt, and after five years, you come to me and I'll repay your debt to your aunt. In fact, Mr Bozič will know whether this problem will be solved because he will know whether he will foresee in the 2009 budget - as is the case with the Faculty of Economics study - the re-financing of Dars from the state budget. Why is that important? Since Dars, who has no resources from the budget, will have to be in charge of repaying credits and Dars, after studying the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, will not repay his debt until 2070. You know, this is how you go about fictitiously reducing public spending, by sending one of the children to your aunt and not including him in your spending and saying, "Our family's consumption is lower." Of course, that's pretentious. Therefore, the consumption of the public financial deficit after the paid realization is comparable over the period, which shows: public consumption has not decreased. It's increased by 100 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to So much so that the public will not think that it is not true that Slovenian public spending is not high-risk - is what the EU says! And it is not true that we are reducing public spending - no, only Dars we have driven into high maintenance and it is known that when bankers of a country can give a few billion Euros of credit, Dars with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia - beware - it is not a problem to become the most respected finance minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I've said this before today that I don't doubt the good results of it at all, the solutions prepared by the Government. However, look at the fraction, again we receive advice that is good to hear, if they are good, can also be followed, and certainly counsel on the criticism of this government to do bad things, and this will be difficult to sell to the worst buyers. Because everyone knows that's not going to work today. It was also a criticism of why the rebalancing is now. But here's where I'd like to tell you, gentlemen. In the seventh month, at the end of the sixth month, the government said at midsummer, it prepared a rebalancing for the current year. This rebalancing is certainly developmental. That's probably what we're all about. I would remind you, however, that some previous governments have prepared a rebalancing in February for a year back. That's what it was. But how developmental, whether meaningful, or good, or whether it shows good work, the government is, of course, something else. True, I admit that this government may be a little conservative because it uses purely old methods, but it's interesting, and these methods show good results. But we had very innovative governments sometimes, or at least parts of governments. Because if there was no income, they figured out that the year lasted thirteen months. Can you believe it? There were no incomes in the 12 months, but they concluded that the year lasted 13 months. And if I'm not mistaken, it's the person who has so many ideas, from the Social Democrats, that I think she was in charge of the budget at the time, or she was in charge of the budget, as well as the analyst at the National Bank. What these analytical forecasts looked like, what these analytical data looked like, is the question. I'm not gonna go into this, but what we're hearing today is talking a little bit about weird credibility. And now they're giving us advice on how this government is supposed to work, which has introduced innovation, that it's a year of thirteen months! This does not work together, and because of the fact that the final balance would be annual, at least approximately acceptable. This was supposed to be fictitious, this was the "potemkin's village" which, of course, was sold to us with various help as some success story. I don't mind, okay, we survived. Thank God this government is here now, so it doesn't work anymore, but it bothers me that now it's such a criticism, and everything they sell to us in this way, but gold is worth it. So it's a little bit of credibility to think about. But the worst part is something else, and it really bothers me personally. In fact, at each session, you will tell us twice, three times, five times, ten times how Slovenian finances will collapse because we have given pensioners a little more, a little better calculation. You'd take your pensioners at every session, but I don't know why, Mr. Squeakle. I don't know what you're up against. I don't think they're getting too much for that job of theirs, for that job they've been doing for a long time, and I don't think anyone's just earned a pension, but you'd keep taking it, which is what you're going through at every session. First you found that the finances would collapse by 2015, then you adjusted a little bit, by 2020, after you saw that this was not true and that this government was serious because the results were good, that they could stay, but you said: somewhere in the hazy future until 2050. So now I think it would be time for us to stop this, because no one believes you anymore, and also your proposals for a more successful work of this government will be difficult, because the results almost cannot be better. Today I have previously quoted the latest data from the European Statistical Office, where Slovenia is one country with the third largest GDP growth and the largest exporter is in the European Union. So that's not going to work, you're going to have to come up with something more reasoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, I didn't see him quoting you. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Did you quote him? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u209	Mr President, he did not quote me, but he mentioned me by name and spoke about the things I was talking about: in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when the Member of Parliament did not understand, the Member has the right to explain this to him in the replica. To the Member of the Commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u210	I'm sorry. I didn't realize you two had an understanding in those 13 months. He didn't mention the man who was meant to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u211	He mentioned Mr. Squeak about pensions, and I'll talk about it. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Of course, Mr. Petan has said more untruths. The first thing he said, of course, is that I would object to the coordination of pensions, and I objected to the way in which pensions are coordinated. We have proposed that those with the smallest pensions should receive more. That's the first one. Secondly, I am not talking about the things I am talking about, the European Union is talking about. Among the 13 countries of the Eurogroup, Slovenia is one of the most risky, in addition to Portugal and Greece. And about the National Bank and 13 months and so on. You've been a little mixed up for a decade. I used to work at a bank in Banka Slovenije for a decade. In the decade in which it took 13 months, I was not a secretary of state, but I first established that the Minister of Finance could not play with public finances today, and should do what he presented here, but in particular use the same vats, but, as I said earlier, that one part of the public spending in the congregation, in the family or in the country was forced into debt. And this is all a bad policy, and I think as an opposition Member I must point out that if you hear it or not, citizens and citizens hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I personally do not mind if the opposition criticises, but I would expect a little more objectivity. I think you're missing some debates, and I'm only going to give you two cases. There was much talk at the beginning of the debate about big unemployment, about how the unemployed are being created in a new way. In this regard, I would like to say that in Slovenia every day there is a longer list of those professions where workers are lacking. If I am not mistaken, a good month ago the government allowed an additional 7,000 additional foreign workers to be employed because they are missing in Slovenia. However, I would like to draw attention to another point that Mr Milan Petek took on the principles of Finance from 4.7.2007 and in these Finances, which deal with the budgetary deficit, and the public deficit, among other things, writes about Minister Bajuk, that before the elections he has promised to reduce the deficit from 48 to 47 in the long term, now this top number is not as important, to 35%. Now there is a difference in this interpretation of longevity. If anyone thinks it's two years in the long run or three years in the long run, and he expects 35% of public finances already, then I think he's wrong. For me, it is 15 or 20 years in the long run, and I think it would be possible to talk in these contexts. However, I would like to draw attention to the credibility of this article, which was in Finance, that the same article also said that the Government is preparing the 2009 budget balance; for 2009, as far as I know, the budget is not even there, we have not yet adopted it, and that the Government would now be preparing a rebalancing of that budget - this is what the same article said. As far as the balance is concerned, I would point out the following. I think that we are quite united in our position, for railways it is necessary to make as many efforts as possible and to start investing in rail infrastructure once, because it has already been a long way off. I'm just sorry this didn't start 15 years ago. I don't know, it's hard to tell what the options were back then, but I'm sure something would have been done by now. As for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. It was very clear why this recapitalisation needed to be done. This is mainly about the fact that the country retains a majority share, and I must say that we agree with this in our own and also in our Group of Members. Given that the number is 50 million, I would also mention that the same minister proposed a revision of the procedure, or a new evaluation of the Insurance Company Triglav; and look at the fractions, from this same new assessment, will be the revenue of the State budget of 50 million euros. So, as much as a recapitalisation lady, I think it's like Bayuk put it out of his pocket. It would look something like that if we pretended that way, but I don't think it's that easy. There was a lot of talk ahead of time and also today, and I think we will be dealing with some of the companies that were owned by the state, directly in the SOD and in the KAD, and in some of these companies, we are going to have a lot of debate and discussion about them. I would like to say, with regard to the SOD, which the Court of Auditors has now examined several times and has not found anything particularly very wrong, that at the beginning of the mandate we were talking about some major holes in the case of the SOD. Indeed, the SOD was then talking about 150 billion and, according to some estimates, 250 billion, so large were rolling after the National Assembly, and so on. As far as I'm aware, these holes are no longer practical in the SOD. I think that this is very commendable, although I think that the Court of Auditors will be able to come tomorrow, it will assess the Court's operation as uneconomically and recklessly. So I think we need to be honest and objective. Well, then, as far as the effects of tax legislation are concerned. Of all the reports we have had, it is clear that revenue in the state budget, as regards income, as well as in the case of pay taxes, is significantly lower than they were in the previous year. So also because of this, I think that the budgetary opportunities for spending are significantly lower, I am talking about the percentage, given that the budget deficit is not practically increasing. So I think the budget is also very cost-effective and rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I'm going to replicate my friend Squill. In particular, he argued that if the amendment they proposed were adopted, they would not be dealing with this rebalancing today or would not have to be filled. Of course, he admitted that it was a hole. A hole that began in 2003 and 2004, when the former government financed construction and maintenance, including maintenance of long-term credit infrastructure. Can you imagine that, for maintenance, direct maintenance was also due to the lack of funds from the budget, hiring 10-year loans. For eight, seven more years, we'll be paying for what we've spent on debt in 2004, let's say, right? Then there's something else. My friend Squill, we're constantly being made clear that we're financing the construction of highways with debt. It's a long-term investment that's just funded by borrowing, and I don't see anything special here. However, when credits were taken for direct maintenance, everything was fine, and no amendments were necessary at the time, everything was fine and just as it had to be. So the hole covered by this rebalancing is from [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u219	The hole that we are covering today was created by the Guarantee Act adopted at this National Assembly in November, December 2006. That's the first one. Secondly, regarding the so-called extension of the Slovenian Railways programme. When we reached the European Council in June 2004 to include the network through Slovenia in trans-European projects, we only had the opportunity to start making money. For this reason, the governments of 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 should also include money for co-financing in the budget expenditure. Lord Christmas asked kindly; he was not heard; it was said to him, a guarantee. He got the guarantee, the guarantee was a drilled hole, and we're closing it today. Once again, we are not opposed to the railway programme, but we are opposed to the fact that the Government had its head in the sand by July 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I would like to clarify once again that the debts that we have now assumed at 100 and several million have actually been incurred, 80 million by 2004. So, this information is correct, and everything else is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. Okay, then you'll check in. Anyone else want to discuss the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing? Yeah, I'm reopening the application. Please report to everyone who wants to discuss this. Mr. Friday, I must warn you that you are already in red numbers. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u223	If that were the case, as Mr. Minister has said, then the Guarantee Act would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I'm used to having one here all the time. Forgive me. See, why do you always comment on those events of people you've never been in the system? That makes me a little nervous. We worked 10 possible reorganisations on Slovenian railways, you printed tons of papers and left a 70-billion-dollar hole. Government of Communists and LDS. You've been training people who have never seen railways, but they've been on the payroll, they've been on the payroll, they've been -- okay, I'm sorry, I'm talking angry. And today, when you talk about what honesty is, you've done a huge, huge economic damage. What we are correcting today is the waving of a hole that has already been created, and also of a business failure. And it's embarrassing to say that we have infrastructure today so that even trains in the normal composition that are in Europe can't drive on it, that is, on the railway. From the Wall Bridge forward, if you don't know, ladies and gentlemen, trains can't drive, normal interoperable trains; they can't drive because there's not a 22.5-ton basic pressure. Which means basically, the pressure on the rail is less than I said. And you bought - with taxpayers' money, I repeat - 20 locomotives; one cost one billion tolars that we can only continue to cover from the Wall Bridge with a blanket and watch. The drone bridge is so bad if you walk on it it can be broken, not by a train. [[Call back from the bench. - It's getting better.]] And it's basically the entrance to the main transit route to Hungary. You've been working on a new route, gentlemen, Hodosh-Puconci, and you've built it by spending more on this section than bringing the cargo from Kopra to Maribor with the electric locomotive, because there is no electricity from there. And today we're going to have to work another track because this track isn't missed and probably electricity. Not to mention the kind of signal security technique you left behind. We still have visual signals, which is a disgrace to Slovenian railways, in Europe you can only find them in the museum. This is your development of rail infrastructure. Not to mention that you left in national development a large-scale developmental action for the 1994 railways, today, as we look at it, 13% of everything is realized. Interestingly, however, every director who left the railways was a great strategist and an immensely good manager. And even in fact, you allowed the benefits to be paid when they were leaving. Railways and railway workers who would like to work at least under conditions such as those in Austria or Italy will have to wait for decades to come. And keep this in front of your eyes when you talk. These technical conditions will have to wait for decades! These investments, which we are essentially releasing here for starters today, are so small that they don't cover - not a single white dot on this black dot. And all this damage you've done with irresponsible management of this system when we're talking about a railway system that you're perfectly familiar with. Who has been responsible for this to this day, or is there anyone in prison for this economic damage? Did we cut anyone's fingers off because he had a fake diploma, or did we lock someone up because - no, we gave him the chance that he was the head of the pig farm after he ran the railroads perfectly? [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And then he cheats on there. [[...]] Successful, yes! That's where I believe he's successful. I would just like to say this, I have been warning this government since 2005, because this is a serious criticism so that the responsibility for using or not using European funds for all these opportunities that we have missed back could be exposed. The fact is that assistance to municipalities and local communities, which could be expressed, was not offered by the Government - under tendering conditions and so on. And this is the opportunity we've missed, and here's our chance to make it up to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the general work debate? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the last item on the agenda or at the latest at 22.40. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Allow me to inform you, however, that two amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a rebalancing. Milana M. Squikla, to whom the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has not defined itself, as they have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as shown in the report of the Committee. I ask, does anyone want to discuss the specific part of the budget's proposal for a rebalancing? I'm opening the application, first. No one's reported, but Mr. Squeakle obviously wanted to sign up, so I'm giving him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We only have one question regarding the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, a share company. Whether small shareholders of Bank Domžal, Bank Zasavje and Koroška banks will receive shares of NLB d.d.? In your papers, you're saying there's gonna be a buy-in. There's talk of a triple book value, and here you're explaining the need for recapitalisation due to rounding. I think they were entitled to that. If this were to happen, there would be a reduction in the share of the KBC and also of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Bajuk does not want that. So, are they going to get this right, or is this a list of small shareholders?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. The vote on the specific part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the last item on the agenda or at the latest at 22.40. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I conclude the debate and reiterate that the vote on the Development Programme Plan in line with the meeting's timing will be held today in the framework of the half-hour vote on the last item of the agenda or at the latest at 22.40. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? Of course, of those who still have time in stock. [[Nobody.]] That is why I conclude the debate. The vote on the proposal for a budget rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the last item on the agenda or at the latest at 22.40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget for the years 2007 and 2008. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to complete the explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Amendments to the 2007 and 2008 law on the implementation of the budget are urgently needed due to these changes that we have proposed and have been considered so far, today in this National Assembly. But it's only three articles. The first introduces this right, which only a specific law can determine. The Public Finance Act makes it clear that all revenues in the B balance sheet arising from the sale of state-owned financial investments must be used to reduce debt or for any other purpose, where the law so provides. This Article 1 would then provide that up to EUR 50 million can be used for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Article 2 also introduces this possibility to actually use these funds in the newly established Directive, and Article 3 is a condition for the regulation of the publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President, Your Honor! At its 29th emergency meeting on 9.7., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget. This law needs to be considered in order to be dealt with at the same time as the Proposal for a State Budget Balance for 2007, as it allows for its implementation and subsequent enforcement, and in addition, the substantive solutions between the law and the balance are closely linked. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law immediately after the adoption of the draft budget rebalancing proposal for 2007. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Government, the Finance and Transport Ministry and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. Of course, by this law we allow part of the purchase from the sale of the capital investment of the Slovenian steel industry to be of EUR 50 million earmarked for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, so that the provision of funds on the item under consideration is absolutely necessary. Moreover, what the Minister has already said guarantees this recapitalisation. Two amendments to the Social Democrats' Group were tabled, an amendment to delete Article 1 and an amendment to Article 2 of the legislative proposal. The amendment was not adopted and it is therefore proposed that the National Assembly vote on the draft law in the proposed text, which was published in Rapporteur No 59 of 28.6.2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. In the preceding item on the agenda, we discussed the revised budget for 2007. The budget changes are followed by the implementation of the budget, which this time is marked by three articles. In Article 1, the purchase from the sale of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian steel industry d.d. up to EUR 50 million is used to recapitalise the Ljubljana Bank. It is about buying-in and connecting Bank Domžale to Koroška banka and Banka Zasavje. The Republic of Slovenia shall participate in the recapitalisation with a view to maintaining the existing share of this strategic investment. This ensures the influence of the Republic of Slovenia in making key decisions on the business and management strategy in NLB. Article 2 lays down the basis for the allocation of spending rights after the implementation of the balance sheet; in Article 3 the condition for implementation is defined. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Budget Implementation Act 2007-2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u234	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The law on the implementation of the budget, its amendments, the SD Group of Members will not support it. We would support it if, of course, an amendment was supported to the budget, with which 50 million euros would be allocated to recapitalisation of the Housing Fund. This was the case with the 2004 and 2005 Budget Implementation Act, adopted in the previous mandate. That's when we said, we have money from selling Talum, we're going to use that money to recapitalise the Housing Fund, to develop tourism, to small entrepreneurs, and so on. In short, for those who cannot obtain loans on the market in the market economy in banks. What are we doing with this law? First of all, this law and the amendment of this law is the only reason we have a balance. The Public Finance Act, adopted in 1999 in this National Assembly, prohibited the sale of family silver for current consumption. And he commanded that when you sell the Slovenian steel industry, even though you only got EUR 100 million for it, on the customer's website they say that 300 million - 200 million euros was probably lost somewhere between Russia and Slovenia. When you sell family silver, you have to reduce your debt, so it has been done in the past. And only in exceptional cases, if the National Assembly so decides, then money can be earmarked for something else. And today you are proposing that the money of Slovenian taxpayers be spent on buying up their shares - why? In order to avoid the so-called 'diffusion' or to reduce the share of existing owners. So that the NCBs will not fall below 34 and that the Republic of Slovenia with 35% as directly owned will not go against 34, 33, 32. The strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that the Republic of Slovenia can go directly to 25 plus 1. Why 25 plus 1, because it's so-called 'blocking minority', the right to block key decisions. We have the New Ljubljana Bank, d.d., which operates in Southeast Europe with the help of its partner KBC. This was committed to adding money, and Mr Bajuk and I have been fighting, so today we have an urgent procedure to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank with the Budget Implementation Act. We have the Banking Act, we have the Company Act, we have the Market in Financial Instruments Act - these laws do not provide that the State will recapitalise institutions, financial institutions such as the Bank. And, of course, we predict and evaluate this as state capitalism, as something in Slovenia, which we have not seen since 1951, when we were able to expel municipal banks from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, give them assets, recapitalize them, and only in the years after the independence, when we had to save millions of Slovenian savers, did we manage to rehabilitate the New Bank of Ljubljana, the New Credit Bank of Maribor with appropriate guarantees, adequate guarantees, appropriate loans. And instead of this government continuing to withdraw from the economy, this government is increasing its share of the economy. And I'm asking you what you're going to do in six months when this bank is going to be 50 million euro capital times 12, that's about 600 million euro of credit potential you've already spent on these or those, those or other loans. Will you come back and sell, I don't know, the Slovenian industry of what? The Slovenian liquor industry? And you'll say, "That money needs to be repurposed for recapitalisation." This is a short-term solution and it is called "delivery of Minister Bajuk" because he had a fight with KBC's partner. That's bad. And we are here as a social democracy against it. We're not going to support this marriage. But it would be better to spend that money to buy 1,000 apartments for young families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u237	A beautiful greeting to the steadfast! In fact, in the Liberal Democracy, we have already announced by our opinion on the budgetary rebalancing that, of course, the Law on amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget is not to our extent that we will not support it. Both documents are directly linked. The rebalance sheet also reflects that recapitalisation in the law on the implementation of the budget. Especially since we know that the sale price of the Slovenian steel industry is 104 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. In this sale, however, we see a lot of disputed, controversial, at least we believe and attach to those who estimate that the country did not recover the highest possible purchase, as the price was not negotiated with small shareholders who are employed in the Slovenian steel industry. As a result, comparisons with major global ironworks show that the Slovenian steel industry was sold below a comparable market price, as seen by the revised book value, which was EUR 219, since SIJ was sold at EUR 190, which is 15% lower than the book value, the difference is obvious. This source, so poorly obtained in fact, is earmarked for the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Ljubljana in a way that we believe could be done differently; therefore, in this budget there is sufficient resources to be redistributed, if this has not already been done for the rail system, at least in the area of recapitalisation of the New Bank of Ljubljana. If this argument is not sufficient, we believe that it is not reasonable and appropriate to do so because, according to our opinion - we have not yet obtained this - that it is a closed recapitalisation that wants to expel small shareholders and increase the share or the country that says that it is withdrawing from the banking or economic system and KBC as some privileged shareholders. We now join the opinion of the President of the Strategic Council, Dr. Peter Groznik of the Faculty of Economics, that the planned recapitalisations of the New Ljubljana Bank remain somewhat confusing. Once the bank is sold, another new holding company is established - the state should decide whether to go out or in. The Belgians are leaving once, and once they're in recapitalisation. Those are his words. I quote you. And all of this I also give us the basis for not seeing the legal reason to impose on those who propose that the law on the implementation of the budget should be amended. In addition, we add that finding, which is written in the law itself and which has also been problematic by the Legal and Legislative Service - it is written to recapitalise up to EUR 50 million. At least in our proposal and in the proposal of the Service of the National Assembly, it should be written, that is, precisely in height, not "do". We therefore believe that the possibility remains for the Government to decide for itself how much it will be invested and this cannot be opened to the law on the implementation of the budget. For this and all of these reasons in this presentation of the LDS Chamber, we therefore stress that we will not support the law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Amendments to the 2007 and 2008 law on the implementation of the budget are necessary due to the changes introduced by the 2007 budget rebalancing. The basic objective of the law is therefore to legislate solutions that will allow for a more transparent and realistic representation of the expenditure and indebtedness of the country. One of the basic requirements of the New Slovenia Group is transparency of public finances. However, the implementation of the budget must take place in accordance with the principles allowing for only purposeful use of funds. The importance of establishing a Directorate for the Management of Public Railway Infrastructure Investments under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport is clear, as we also want comparable railway infrastructure in Slovenia to other European countries. In order to secure the resources of this directive, a rebalance is needed, which will also ensure the purposeful use of resources by adopting amendments to the law on the implementation of the budget. Another change that requires the adoption of a rebalancing and the proposed law is the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Up to EUR 50 million are provided from the purchases made by the sale of the Slovenian steel industry. Maintaining the majority ownership stake in the largest Slovenian bank is in the interest of this government and also in the interest of the state and its inhabitants. Such a capital structure as we provide through recapitalisation will enable the bank to be managed in cooperation with a foreign partner for the benefit of the Slovenian economy and Slovenian citizens and citizens. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to note that they have not come true again, nor are the predictions of some Members being made. At the time of the adoption of tax legislation, these cautioned that the changes introduced by us would require an increase in value added tax rates in order to reduce the revenue of the budget. Now we see that the 2007 budget balance is needed only because of a more transparent and real picture of the state's public finances. For this reason, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Law on amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budget for 2007 and 2008 in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u241	Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State, Members, Members of Parliament! The main reason for the debate on the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget for 2007 and 2008 is, as we know, legal alignment with the changes to the budget on the basis of the 2007 Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of Slovenia. As well as the 2007 balance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, Members of the SLS Group also support the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget in a similar way as mentioned in the previous paragraph. In the debate on the balance itself, much has already been said about the substantive aspect. However, this bill aims to lay the groundwork for the smooth implementation of the balance in practice by harmonising the balance and this proposal. It is therefore more of a point of co-ordination in line with the necessary changes, as well as with the content. As Members of the SLS Group have already said, many of the changes due to changed factors in the economic market, despite some possible concerns, simply have to take place in favour of long-term consequences. We also agree with the amendments to Article 12 text, which sets the amount of funds for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, which will allow the Bank to merge with Banka Domžale, Koroška banka and Banka Zasavje and thus lay the groundwork for the penetration of the New Ljubljana Bank into the markets of other EU countries. Although it has been a few years since Slovenia's EU involvement, the expansion of Slovenian companies into foreign markets has taken place too few times and to a limited extent, and the involvement of the State in the recapitalisation of the bank is also necessary to maintain ownership and consequently to make the most important decisions, including development decisions. We also welcome the amendment to Article 14, which provides the Ministry of Transport with the eligibility to spend resources from the State budget and thus contributes to the very desirable modernisation of our railway network. Surely, we all agree that Slovenia's involvement in EU projects and in the European transport zone is also important for the economic performance and well-recognizability of the country. The Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore certainly supports the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you, President. I'm an ardent advocate of railroad reconstruction. I'm telling you why. Because if we don't build it, our corridor will be forgotten and served by neighbouring Italy. Our economy will stagnate, there will be no connection. I was happy to say that, once again, regardless of the way or the law or the rebalancing, we could arrange the railways. The first surprise I experienced personally when he stuck with another part, namely the recapitalisation. That's where I first suspected. The second time I suspected, I am speaking specifically, in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Budget Implementation, when the representative of the Legal and Legal Service on the home labour body pointed out twice that the word link in Article 1 "up to €50 million" should be replaced by the word "in height". Of course, the legislative and legal service proposal was rejected immediately, once again, we asked the Legal and Legal Service whether the reason for the dismissal was legal or not. And she said, "No." Why not? "That's why," she said, "because look at article 74 of the Public Finance Act, where it is allowed and possible to go to a part of this 50 million euro somewhere else where it should not go." It is possible, look at these three points in this article. And logic gives me the idea, it says, "up to 50 million," we're going to accept ZIPR, and then it can happen that there's not going to be 50 million euros, but only 30. Yes, you can! We'll accept that. 20 will go where it goes. And that's not the problem. The problem is, 30 can be too small. Today we have heard that Nova Ljubljanska Banka is owned by state only at 50.2%. 50,2! And instead of 50, 30 million comes in - and what happens? It can happen that Nova Ljubljanska Banka will be owned by the state 49.9 and we will give the state money to the foreigner for "touching" our bank. I see this scenario, and I know something like this is going to happen. I have asked twice that the Secretary of State or the people who attended the meeting of my mother's working body ensure that the New Ljubljana Bank remains in Slovenian ownership. I assured you, I asked you three times, I never got it. On every single question - I didn't get it! The first reason why I personally, Bogdan Barovic in the Slovenian Party, will not support ZIPR. And the second reason is the record that says "Sales of shares is in the above-mentioned specific situation" - this is this particular situation that describes why recapitalisation is "necessary": because the shareholders of the merged banks do not become shareholders of the New Ljubljana Bank. In a democratic country with an open market, both financial and economic, I, as a small shareholder of the Bank of Zasavje, cannot become a shareholder of the New Bank of Ljubljana. Just like that, you can't! For many years, we still haven't sold shares, we're saving, we've got great dividends. Now somebody makes me have to! And I can't become a shareholder. You know, I don't like that kind of system. I have the right to dividends if I'm to estimate that my stakes are good. I got it! That's what they steal from me. And the last thing that will be the worst is that I believe and know that it will not be long before the New Ljubljana Bank is in foreign possession of our money. Barovic won't support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u245	Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Our party, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, will support this budget change, as well as the law on the implementation of the budget, because it wants to believe that both documents have been prepared by the Government with the best intention of resolving certain issues, as proposed or presented in the explanatory memorandum by the Government and the Finance Minister. Right now, we have no reason not to believe our financial experts that these things are as they were presented, and I am firmly convinced that these solutions need to be looked at with optimism, that we will arrange and begin to regulate certain things, especially when it comes to rail infrastructure, and in this respect, the Government and this project have our support. Whether criticism is justified by all those who see bad solutions in this, it will certainly soon show up and there is no reason why voters would not be able to take this into account next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We'll make a decision on the bill in half an hour, that's 8:45. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u247	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We are moving on to the end of the 12th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, reduced procedure, third consideration. We are moving on to a decision on individual amendments and articles. I am putting to the vote the amendments of LDS MPs, unrelated Members, SD and SNS to Article 4. I would like to remind you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 21 in favour against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 52, against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted, 45 to 13. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the Personal Data Protection Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts - an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 5. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, the application is pending. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Therefore, we will not accept the Slovenian National Party of the Amendment in the Group of Members, because we resent that there is no fourth paragraph in it, which would stipulate that on this day, 31 May, he is also working on a day off. We estimate that the Slovenian judiciary is so extremely functional and successful that it would be profitable for the entire wider population within our country to create or determine a state holiday on that day, working on a free day. That's why we're going to oppose the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Since there is no other Lord Zagorac, be my guest. [[...]] In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I am sorry that I cannot support the amendment's proposal, but it seems to me to be giving a holiday to someone who is the weakest member of this country and does not do his job, but I think that the amendment will be possible, given its character, to receive the support of one of the government's parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment, with a second reading of the bill under the urgent procedure. Since the proposed amendment was not adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present for 52, against 5. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the cut-off of the 15th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Balance of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the Draft Balance of Budgets. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 to 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for the budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the Draft Balance of Budgets. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 to 19. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for the budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 50, for 16. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have completed our decision-making on individual parts of the Draft Budget Balance. We are moving on to a decision on the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Application on behalf of the parliamentary group, except for Mr Magi. Practicing, anyone else? Check-in is on. Mr. Milan Friday has the floor. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u252	Emissary groups, absolutely. A respected minister or two ministers. Both were present when we said in previous discussions that we would not fully support the rebalancing, and this is again today. In previous discussions, it was said that we are simply assessing that the Government has not done everything to find internal budgetary reserves, with which it would not actually be necessary to add these funds to the budget to carry out investment works in the field of railways. Therefore, because you have done so, you have not taken into account our recommendations, we believe that you have made a mistake, that you have not actually followed those economists, those experts who have been warning you all the time that you are actually increasing public consumption at this time, rather than "in the time of the fat cows", as economists say, finding ways to reduce public spending and save these resources for the time when the "dry cows" period will occur. Railways are really needed to rebuild, so the situation needs to be improved, but this could be done in a different way. In the Liberal Democracy we do not deny the need to remedy the situation in the field of railways, we have comments on how this is done. We have comments on the restructuring of the railway system, so that the formation of the Directorate does not run as it should; we believe that 32 projects such as the development programmes can not be easily implemented this year. In addition to the fact that, of course, we challenge the way the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is proposed in this balance sheet and later in the implementation of the budget, these are all the reasons why the decision is to vote, so that we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Exercise on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support that part of the balance that talks about increasing funding for Slovenian railways. Not only have we proposed this twice with the amendments, but these amendments have been rejected. We therefore support the fact that we will put the final amendments into the budget today. However, we do not support the way in which this balance is drawn up and implemented, nor do we support that the Minister has obviously not proposed to the President of the Government or prevented him from doing so, as the Public Finance Act requires, so of course we find that this balance is in the work that talks about the financing of the Slovenian Railways, of course at least what is illegal and the Minister has even said that it is a technical correction. It's a big mistake. Both the rebalancing and the Budget Implementation Act is the part that talks about the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. It is the case that small shareholders are printed in order for Mr Minister and, of course, other large owners to still decide everything in the New Ljubljana Bank. This is, of course, totally illusory, Nova Ljubljanska banka is owned by 950 shareholders, could be owned by 2000, 3000 shareholders, all small shareholders of Bank Zasavje, Banka Domžale, Koroška banka. This will not be the case, the state money will be spent EUR 50 million to buy out these shares in order to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank in some way. This is state capitalism and, of course, the completely unnecessary conduct of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this is mainly a cover-up of the failure of Minister Bajuk, who was unable to reach an agreement between the key shareholders of the New Ljubljana Bank, because the NCB has committed itself to supporting the development of this bank to support the development of the bank in order to provide it with additional capital, but now, at the same time, the Government, the National Assembly, policy is giving 50 million euros of money for actions that we will never again decide on. This was last done in 1956. We're going back to these years, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much. We are voting on the 25th item of the agenda, on the balance sheet. I note that 71 Members and Members voted, 45 to 20. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the Rebalancing Act has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 16th item of the agenda - secondly on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget for 2007 and 2008, the urgent procedure since we are not going to the vote in the second reading. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Just Mr. Mag. Squeak. Anyone else? No, no, no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u256	A similar law was adopted in 2004. He suggested that from 13 billion of the sales revenues of Talum at that time, we give money to recapitalise the Housing Fund, to develop tourism, to small businesses and so on. Today we are doing something completely wrong following an emergency procedure. Once the Supervisory Board has decided yesterday or July 11th to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank exclusively for existing shareholders, today we will politically decide that it is right to follow the will of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, a shareholder company. I have the feeling that Mr. Žiga Lavrič, as President of the Supervisory Board, has confused a little bit, that of course he should not have come to this Chamber to look for 50 million. Euros, but of course it would take 50 million. The euro of recapitalisation to search the market and therefore it is wrong to give 50 million to the legislator following an urgent procedure. Euros of taxpayers' money for this recapitalisation. That's 50 million of those. The euro came from EUR 100 million in sales to the Slovenian steel industry, and this is to be clarified in particular because Russian customers report on 3 March 2007 that they paid 300 million for the Slovenian steel industry. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. What's the difference, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 22. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget for 2007 and 2008 has been adopted and I conclude point 16. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the defence area. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the mutual maintenance of stocks of crude oil and petroleum derivatives. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second hearing, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Constitutional Court Act is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Employment and Work Act is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Judicial Procedure Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 28th item of the agenda, namely the mandate-holders' affairs. In the context of this item, the Assembly will consider 21 proposals by the Council of Justice for election with a judicial function and a proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Inform the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, about the action brought in private and the indictment of the District State Prosecutor in Ljubljana against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. The Council of State submitted 21 proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of 18 District Courts and District Courts at the District Court in Domžalah, Kranj, Maribor, Celje, Lenart, Trebnje, New City and Ptuj, District Court in Maribor and Higher Court of Justice in Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Mateja Gruškovnjak to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Rebecca Leje Kovacič to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Aleksandr Šmid to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted for 54 against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Urška Vrbnjak to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Maja Jurič to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 56, against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Ziva Krmelj to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 60 Members and 54 Members present, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sabine Pavlin to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members, 53, against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Daša Pogorevc Filipič to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members, 53, against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Saša Bozič to the District Court in the District Court in Koper. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present, for 55, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Kanc to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members, 54, against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Urske Kežmah to the court seat of the district court at the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members, 52, against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Karmen Okršlar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 60 Members and 55 Members present, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Simone Ozmec to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present, for 55, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tee Lucija Modrijancič to the District Court in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members, 53, against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mateja Zarič Bukovnik to the District Court in Lenart. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 51, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Katja Pavlič to the District Court in the District Court in Trebnje. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 54, against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mateja Derlink to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present, for 55, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan as a judge of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Barbara Nerat to the courthouse of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Macek Berger to the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Marta Petrovič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Council of Justice for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Dr. Ana Bozič Penko as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision appointing Dr. Ana Bozič Penko to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, concerning a private action brought against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court of Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, IK420/206 of 4.6.2007 concerning a private action brought against the Member of the National Assembly of Mr. Zmag Jelinčič Trinité for a criminal offence under Article 171/1 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the State of Slovenia to Mr. Zmagu Jelinčič noble and permit the conduct of criminal proceedings." We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present and 57 voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, concerning the indictment filed by the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification by the District Court of Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, IK390/206 of 29.5.2007 concerning the action brought by the District Attorney in Ljubljana against the Member of the National Assembly of Mr. Zvog Jelinčič Plemenite for the criminal offence of appeal after the second paragraph of Article 179 concerning the second paragraph of Article 180 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia does not grant immunity to the Member of the State of Slovenia to Mr. Zmaj Jelinčičiplenitite and to allow the administration of criminal proceedings." We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. On Wednesday, 11 July 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on a proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Change Act. On Wednesday, 11 July 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the second reading of the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving to a decision on the draft law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else besides Dr. Pavli? Nobody. Dr. Mark Pavliha has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's not my habit to explain my voice, but when it comes to the interests of more than 750 thousand insurers and insurers, then I can't and can't be silent. We agree with the Government that the provision of Article 21, paragraph 6, of the Law would be very difficult to implement in practice, namely, it is stated in this provision that all those mentioned by special law should be allowed to participate in the work of capital, either with insurance policies, pension vouchers or shares. Therefore, in the framework of the development partnership, we have agreed on a compromise solution for KAD to remain the holder of all these shares, but it must carry out them with a view to providing funds for pension and disability insurance. At the same time, we also agreed on a provision to prevent KAD from having access to these shares. Unfortunately, at the government meeting, this provision has gone to nothing, it is no longer available, so we cannot support this novel, or if I can express ourselves more graphically, if the KAD is full, then it can leave and the precious pension nectar can quickly be poured into the wrong SOD. Once again, it's the interest of 750 thousand insurers and insurers, so we can't support the novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 42, for 16. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
