ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u1	I'm asking you to take your seats so we can start the session! Dear viewers, viewers, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I begin by continuing the 26th regular meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Milan M. Squeakl, Ivan Jelen, Drago Koren, Jakob Presječnik until 5 p.m. and Mag. Anton Rop. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item, this is on the exploratory proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the work of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions during the period from January 2007 to June 2008, EPA 1264-IV, in 70. We have five hours and 55 minutes to discuss. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to the President of the Government or probably to the Secretary-General - he is not - to further explain the proposal for declarations. Then I give the floor to Mr Dimitri Ruple, Minister for Foreign Affairs. The President is coming and I welcome him and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Sorry I'm a little late, too. This time the declaration on guidelines for the work of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions for the period January 2007 - June 2008 is slightly more important than the similar document you discussed last year. It also covers a longer period, a year and a half, it also covers the period when Slovenia will preside over the EU and contains substantive areas that are envisaged as recorded from the point of view of what we know today. This means that we can or will need to adapt them in the future and that you will also be able to change the declaration from this point of view. But it's about when and if it's real. This time, a few reflections on the broader problems and challenges facing Europe or the EU today and Slovenia in this context. Two days ago, the Berlin Declaration was signed in Berlin at the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the European Union. In the public, it has triggered various reflections, but it is undoubtedly - and the declaration reminds us - that Europe has achieved not only important achievements in these 50 years, but also historic success, that Europe is today, after 50 years for many who live outside it, a place where they would like to live. The European Union is, after all the international research done in the last 10 years, the largest or actual approximation of an ideal environment in which the majority of the population living outside Europe today would like to live with a few exceptions. Today, it is also necessary to gather enough political will for useful compromises to ensure that this project will be as successful in the next 50 years as it has been in the last 50 years. At the time of the establishment of the European Union, this was a bond for coal and steel, which at the very beginning the Union was dealing with a question that it was also dealing with after 50 years - this issue was at the heart of, this was an energy issue. So some of the challenges are the same and some of the challenges are different. At the time this community was formed, Europe was still a place of war, then ending II. World War II and Cold War. After 50 years, however, the European Union is a place of peace and democracy. From Europe, which was more of an idea 50 years ago, we got a political creation that is based on transparency and subsidiarity, building on solidarity and trying to be solidarity also outwardly. The European Union is currently the world's largest donor of development aid, with 52% of all the development aid provided in the world being given by the Member States of the European Union. The European Union has made enormous economic and political progress; today it has a population of 3 times more than at the time of its establishment. At present, the European Union counts 27 Member States, of which 15 of these 27 countries at the time of the signing of the first Treaty, which we record as the beginning of the European Union, did not exist at all or lived in dictatorships. Back then, from Portugal, Spain, Greece to countries that were part of the Eastern bloc and to countries that did not exist at all at the time, Slovenia was among them. From this point of view, the European Union is also a project that combines national specificities and has the ambitions of European space, which also has some common features. Over the past 50 years, an internal market has been established in the European Union, which is adapting to new size at this very time. During the Slovenian Presidency next year, we will be working hard to make better use of the potential of this market, and the potential of the market is greater than what is currently being exploited. There are still certain restrictions, protectionism and therefore this market does not produce optimal results. This also applies to a narrower area or euro area in which Slovenia entered on 1 January this year, which is particularly in need of an open and competitive market. When the first idea came about the European currency, one was accompanied by great enthusiasm, the other with great scepticism, that was decades ago; it took several decades for the euro to become a practice and this is a successful project today, which, despite some concerns, was clearly highlighted at the outset in the Berlin Declaration. The euro was an idea that was realized, and there were also ideas that were not realized in Europe, and it is necessary to know that before the signing of the Roman Treaty, the idea of a European defence relationship, I think it was three years earlier, this idea was designed, but it was not realized. At the time of the signing of the Roman Coal and Steel Community Treaties, treaties on the European Atomic Energy Connection have also been signed, which has not been or has not taken place in such a form, so that there have also been many projects in the European Union during these 50 years that have not or have not yet been implemented. What kind of applies as a common denominator of this path is that there has always been new ideas, that none of these have been realized overnight, but that those key ones have still been realized, and usually in a way that has always found a good compromise that has moved things forward, taking into account the different specificities of the Member States or those countries that have participated at a given time in the design of the solution. When the common European currency was actually introduced in 1999, it was said that this would not represent, except that it would be a symbolic act, a generator of faster growth and employment. Today, after eight years, the results show that this was not the case. In the eight years since the nominal European currency existed, 12 million new jobs have been established or established in the area. Only 3 million jobs were created in the same period of eight years before the introduction of the euro. The euro is certainly due to the fact that the internal market in the work of the European Union, as well as the euro area, has worked better. This has affected faster growth and also the creation of new jobs. One of the great achievements that we can particularly look forward to in Slovenia, the development of the European Union, which is precisely the enlargement of this Union, is territorial enlargement. What is sometimes forgotten is that enlargement of the European Union is also an expansion of the area of peace and stability. We, too, have recently encountered war, at home and above all at our borders, in the territory of the Western Balkans, and even at this moment, there is only one real alternative to the long-term stabilisation of this region, and this is a European perspective. At the same time, it must be stressed that before any further step can be taken towards further enlargement of the European Union, Europe needs a new institutional basis, which means the resolution of the current crisis created by the non-ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty. 27 countries have signed the Treaty, and only 18 of us have ratified this Treaty, and this breakthrough is now called the institutional crisis and the solution is sought. A little bit more about that later. After 50 years, Europe can boast of a combination of a social model based on a combination of economic competitiveness and solidarity, a balance that is not ideal, but far from the best in the world. And the European social model, whatever its different forms and different practices in different Member States, has some common characteristics and these common characteristics make it the best existing social model in the global world and this social model gives Europe a great advantage when it comes to quality of life, even over those parts of the global world that are economically stronger. The Berlin Declaration, which was signed on Sunday after long and hard coordination, contains a sentence which, in view of the current challenge facing the European Union, is very important. It has not been easy to write down, but it has been harmonised and contains a commitment that this crisis, which has arisen through the non-ratification of the European Constitutional Treaty, will be exceeded by the next elections to the European Parliament in 2009. This is a very clear political objective, adopted unanimously, this is the success of the German Presidency. At this point, there are also many things that are not directly related to institutions that are not directly related to the solutions foreseen by the European Constitutional Treaty, but have not come to life, somehow in the shadow of these solutions, and things will not move forward until this step is taken. Less than 200 million people lived in the European Union 30 years ago. There were several times fewer members than there are today. Today, as I said, there are 27 members, almost 500 million people, but the Union still works the same way as it did when it was more than once smaller, even by the number of people. While the permanent way of functioning allows for normal development in most areas, it is significantly slower than would be necessary in view of the challenges facing the European Union. In Slovenia, by ratifying the Constitutional Treaty, we have made it quite clear that it contains good solutions for us. Today, we also believe that there is no way to negotiate any significant deviations from the key solutions that this document has brought. Reopening some of the dilemmas that have been resolved for a long time and finally resolved by compromises that are enshrined in the European Constitutional Treaty is also not possible today. From this point of view, in some ways this knowledge has penetrated even more widely, and as far as this is concerned, we are faced with some very decisive moment. In fact, all expectations are concentrated on the German Presidency or the conclusion of this Presidency by the European Council or the European Summit of June this year. It is now clear whether the President-in-Office will be able to harmonise a time-frame for the adoption of a compromise and whether an informal agreement on the content of this compromise will be reached, depending on whether the move will take place in real time or in the next European elections in 2009. Unless there is movement and compromise in June, then, as the President-in-Office of the European Council said on Sunday, this will be a very big untapped opportunity and also a historic mistake. All we can do is pin it on it. Even from the point of view of our Presidency to the European Union in the first half of 2008, it is necessary to make it clear that this Presidency will be significantly different if we find a compromise on this key problem opened in the European Union in June, or if we do not find this compromise. Even the German Presidency in the first half of this year, which is also very successful in view of the European Summit concluded earlier this month, when very good guidance and binding conclusions were adopted on renewable energy, on growth and employment, on the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, but this Presidency will also be marked as a failure if there is no answer to this key dilemma that we are facing. Slovenia will chair in an atmosphere that will not be good if this solution is not on the table or if there is not at least rapid progress towards this solution and the whole European Union can, in the next European elections, not find this solution, face a deepening crisis that will very likely reflect, among other things, the low participation in elections in the European Parliament by walking through the reputation of European institutions and increasing Euroscepticism in the Member States of the European Union. So, we have a double interest that the start of the resolution will take place during the German Presidency, and what will be in our power will contribute to this. I mentioned the conclusions of the March European Council, which clearly showed that Europe is also part of the solution in the global sense that it is not a problem of globalisation, Europe has set itself or the European Union has set itself the goal of becoming a leader when it comes to tackling the consequences of climate change, has laid the foundations of a European energy policy based on the commitment of ecology and sustainable development and what is now ahead of it, namely that similar objectives are being negotiated in the G8 Group and at a close summit with the United States of America. The Kyoto Protocol will expire in 2012 and the commitments made earlier this month at the European Council will go in the direction of restoring itself and setting even more ambitious targets when it comes to reducing greenhouse gases by 2020. What is important in this regard in particular is that Slovenia was one of the few Member States that could present its own long-term project at this summit, I think of the renewable energy and hydrogen technology project in the resolution in national development projects by 2023 as a comparable period. We have foreseen funding in the framework of this project in the form of a public-private partnership of almost €4 billion, and from this point of view we have been exposed as a very good practice. During the Slovenian Presidency, a review or evaluation of the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy will also be carried out. Here the results in some areas are good, in some areas they are not good enough. We have a lot of work to do. The Lisbon Strategy will be drawn for a longer time, not just until 2010, and during our Presidency we want to give at least some more emphasis, which comes from our own planning documents, especially from Slovenia's development strategy. Finally, let me say that the European Union has become an important global player in order to strengthen this role. My colleague's foreign minister is probably going to say more about this later. Some new institutional foundations are also necessary. This issue is also largely related to the solution we need in relation to the non-ratified European Constitutional Treaty. During our presidency, we want to give some decisive impetus to the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkan countries. It is also certainly not possible to complete any of these processes during our Presidency. We can offer some excellent accelerations, of course, provided that a solution for institution upgrading is found during this time. As regards the situation of Slovenia in the European Union. Let me begin by mentioning the latest combined price of the European Commission and the European Business Association on the reform successes of the Member States of the European Union. Unlike what we hear in Slovenia many times, if there are no reforms or if there are no reforms, the external unbiased assessments, which Slovenia has compared with the other 26 Member States of the European Union, are significantly better. In this combined assessment, only two Member States of the European Union are above 27 listed as Slovenia, 6 are at about the same level, and the rest are rated worse. And this is by far the best such classification of Slovenia so far. This is also evidence that we have rightly targeted the Lisbon objectives in our strategy for the development of Slovenia, that we have specifically upgraded it with a resolution on national development projects and that all other macroeconomic indicators also show that the Slovenian economy increases competitiveness and that this affects the competitiveness of the whole country or national economy as a whole. We currently have - and these are the data that have been taken into account in this assessment - the most favourable situation between economic growth, inflation and employment. So far, real growth has never been so high in the life of a single country. We can really expect the final calculation of gross domestic product for 2006, measured according to purchasing power, to exceed €20,000 per capita. Ten years ago, it was an unimaginable dream number. Even today, it is an unimaginable figure for a large part of the existing members of the European Union. We have successfully taken over the common European currency as the first new member of the European Union. What is important is that inflationary movements were kept low even in the first months after the euro was taken. There was almost no assessment of the economic experts that would have predicted this - the results were significantly better than the forecasts, because prices fell in January and February compared to the same period last year and did not rise as expected. Slovenia has also played a key role in resolving the setbacks related to the expansion of the Schengen area and the Schengen Information System. Without two factors, this is without the Portuguese proposal and the active integration role of Slovenia, which has done a great deal here, it is likely that the new members will enter the Schengen area with a large backlog and that at the end of this year internal border controls will be withdrawn throughout the Schengen area and, with March 2008, airport controls will be removed, and this will be a very important step that will be felt by all Member States of the European Union that will enter the Schengen area. The path so far has enriched us with new experiences, which will be very valuable for the greatest challenge ahead of us after the independence, which is next year during the Presidency of the European Union. This Presidency is not just a government project, it is a national project. In this high assembly, we have decided unanimously to do so immediately after the elections, when the relationship between the position and the opposition has not yet been known, and on this basis we will discuss in the coming days the commitment of all parliamentary parties, the agreement on cooperation during the preparations and during the Presidency. This, of course, will not be some normal work obligation, not for the government, not for Parliament, nor for other institutions of this country - this will be an additional obligation, additional responsibility and an additional challenge. At that time, this half year, it will be necessary to coordinate the positions of the 27 Member States of the European Union, most of which are larger than us, which will be extremely difficult. It will take all the time and all the energy and therefore we need at least a minimum agreement for this work not to be used to create any additional internal political tensions. I think that we will be able to do this and that we will be able to justify both; that is to say, to prove that even the new members of the European Union with less experience can successfully preside over the Union; and, secondly, that, on the basis of the trust that Slovenia has created in the European Union so far, we can also make a substantive contribution to the fact that the things that need to be moved forward throughout the European Union are actually moving forward during the Slovenian Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much to the President of the Government, Mr Janša, for further explaining the proposal for a declaration. I now invite Dr. Dimitri Ruple, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, honourable Members, Members! My contribution or the contribution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to today's presentation of our country's operations in the institutions of the European Union this year and the first half of next year is focused or limited to some of the most visible and essential issues that we are entrusted with within a government team or within a group that deals with the functioning of our country in both the Trio and Trio are a group of countries. Germany, Portugal, Slovenia - then three. Portugal, Slovenia plus the European Commission; and during the Presidency, when Slovenia will be assisted by France and the European Commission. I will talk in particular about the common foreign and security policy, the relations of the European Union with the candidate countries in the European Union, the policy towards the so-called neighbourhood of the European Union, which mainly includes the Eastern European, Caucasus and Mediterranean countries, the future transformation of the European Union and intercultural dialogue. In Slovenia we are aware that we are participating in a major global and historical project that has lasted for 50 years and has been sometimes called a European miracle. For the first time in history, European nations have united voluntarily and in a democratic way, not by the will of this or that leading nation. The European peoples, who are members of the European Union, are also democratically managing this organisation. This governance is not easy, because it is not a nation with more countries, but rather an organisation that contains some of the characteristics of the country, but consists of a large number of independent nations. The coexistence of the European nations, even more so, the bond between their communities is based on respect for diversity, the linkage of the European connection is diversity, which, if I may say so, is a miracle indeed. Allow me to find out and report to this High Council that the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular our Permanent Representation in Brussels and the Embassy, which will become a standstill of European diplomacy from 1 January 2008, are already actively involved in the management of European affairs, for example with regard to the 18-month Tria programme. As can be seen from many foreign comments, Slovenia recognises the ability to lead and expresses its admiration that it has burdened itself with complex and sensitive organisations such as the European Union. Of course, we must also be prepared to make statements, as they were once made in the United States, as well as in the largest EU countries, that small countries have fewer opportunities and less power to address problems in the European Union, especially now that they have 27 members. Such observations have already appeared in the background of the drafting of a constitutional treaty for Europe, from which a proposal has emerged, to end the rotation in the management of the Council. This means, of course, that Slovenia may be one of the last carriers of the six-year Presidential Staff and that if the European Union implements the solutions of the Constitutional Treaty, it will receive permanent leadership. This leads to the conclusion that it may be historical responsibility and the opportunity of Slovenia. We are aware that the European Union or the Member States expect the Presidency to ensure the continuity, transparency and predictability of the European Union, which Slovenia will certainly try to ensure during the Presidency. By the way, one country's presidency is usually remembered for two to three priority areas or for the success of solving an unannounced crisis situation in the world during the presidency. Let me only mention some of the more important challenges in the field of external relations of the European Union. Slovenia is working towards the implementation of a common foreign and security policy, which, as the name suggests, is not yet a single policy in today's situation. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we hope to put a common diplomatic and consular network on our feet in the European Union, thus adding new opportunities and better protection to the citizens of the European Union, particularly those from smaller countries which are limited to the number of missions and their permeability. Although coordination is not easy and individual members have strong national interests, in the European Union, we agree on a unified performance, especially when it comes to crisis hotspots, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, development assistance, migration and other areas, as well as the operation of the UN and other organisations. In the field of external and security policy, there could be even greater unification in the future, as a result of global economic and security developments. Slovenia will endeavour to pursue a more coherent policy in the European Union towards the Middle East, Iran, on the regulation of Kosovo's status and also on relations with strategic partners of the European Union, such as the United States of America, the Russian Federation, China and Africa. The President of the Government has already mentioned talks and activities concerning the future structure of the European Union and a possible new treaty. The issue of further enlargement is also linked to the resolution of this issue. As a proponent of enlargement, Slovenia will endeavour to ensure that candidates for membership in the European Union are Croatia, Turkey and Macedonia, progressing as quickly as possible towards full membership, seeing only the limitations in the ability of these countries to meet difficult standards as soon as possible regarding respect for human rights, the free movement of people, goods, services and capital and to adhere to commitments or agreements with the European Union. I am thinking, for example, of the negotiating framework for Croatia, in which this country has committed itself to resolving open issues with neighbouring countries and will not act unilaterally, especially when it comes to matters that are part of the European acquis and related to the sea, marine ecology and the maritime economy. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. Slovenia also supports the European perspective of the Western Balkans. I have in mind the Thessaloniki conclusions and the necessary balance between the Balkan countries. We want Montenegro, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to start and negotiate their relations with the European Union as soon as possible. Slovenia is in line with the belief that all these Member States of the European Union will soon be involved in development assistance programmes and programmes that will consolidate their path to Euro-Atlantic integration as the Presidency and as a good knower of the situation in the region. Finally, our European perspective centre is dedicated to this, and this is a regional partnership, which is a group of countries of Austria, Slovenia plus the Multi-urban Four, and this year the European Union - let me add this to the Western Balkans - will implement its security and defence policy by taking over the largest mission in Kosovo so far, with Slovenia actively participating. With countries on the eastern and southern borders, the Union has good relations and wants to develop them further, even though these countries are unlikely to become members of the European Union. Therefore, Slovenia's main task - further strengthening the Union's relations with those countries, as well as deepening regional cooperation with the Black Sea countries, will be balanced. This topic will also be given special attention at the informal meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers at the end of this week in Bremm. Slovenia will be active both in the Mediterranean and in the Central European Group of States. Speaking of the Mediterranean Group of States, I am referring to the ten Member States of the European Union, which are also Mediterranean countries, and to the group of countries in Central Europe, I am referring to the regional partnership that I have already mentioned. So, multi-urban four, Austria and Slovenia. After two years of reflection following the failure of the referendums on the European Constitution in the Netherlands and France, there is a need for compromise solutions in the Member States. If all validation procedures in the Member States are to be completed by future elections to the European Parliament, a solution should be found as soon as possible in 2008. Two days ago, the adopted Berlin Declaration symbolically concludes the period of this reflection. The European Council will decide in June 2007 on the continuation of the reform process, which may be cut off during the Slovenian Presidency. It is an intergovernmental conference and, after all, it is also a signing of a new treaty. In Slovenia we support the implementation of the existing text of the current Constitutional Treaty. However, if this does not work, we will strive to preserve as many of its ingredients as possible. Slovenia would be difficult to accept any change that would reduce the rights of smaller countries. Slovenia will also pay particular attention to intercultural dialogue. It is not only about the year 2008 of intercultural dialogue, but also about strategic political reflection on understanding and coexistence in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union and Slovenia. The key passwords and messages of the intercultural dialogue, which Slovenia leads through the Centre for the European Future, are dealing with ignorance and stereotypes, dialogue, information flow and education. The Centre already holds seminars and organizes meetings and conferences on this subject. A dialogue between the Christian and Islamic Council will also be one of the main sources of content, as the President of the European Parliament, Hans-Gert Poettering, pointed out in his February programme speech this year in order for intercultural and interfaith dialogue to become a trademark of Europe. And let me tell you something else that's relevant in the end. With the proposal to establish a Euro-Mediterranean University based in Piran, Slovenia offers cooperation to Mediterranean partners. We anticipate that during the period covered by this declaration, decisions will also be taken on the headquarters of the Galileo supervisory agency, for which Slovenia is also running. The fact that Slovenia is the first of the new Member States to be entrusted by the European Union to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union imposes a special responsibility on us. Our priority is to successfully carry out the Presidency, which will bring us a number of positive consequences, we hope; from increased political role and visibility within the European Union and in the wider international area to more intensive cooperation in the political and economic fields within and outside the Union. This will require close and active cooperation of Slovenia with the institutions of the Union, with Member States, and in particular with all factors in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Janez Lenarčič, State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u6	Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Mr President of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members! As a conclusion to this introductory presentation, I would like to highlight some of the key elements of Slovenia's preparation for the Presidency of the European Union, which is an important part of the document currently under consideration, with particular emphasis on the preparation of mainly substantive work. The main objective of the Presidency is to make progress towards the common objectives of the European Union. This, of course, requires making great efforts to find and develop compromise solutions between the 27 Member States and to cooperate with the European institutions, especially the European Parliament and the European Commission. Good cooperation with the latter is a key condition for a successful presidency. In doing so, Slovenia is expected to act primarily impartially and neutrally in its temporary role among the 27 Member States so as not to favour the specific interests of any Member State. It is known that the most successful were those countries that followed the common interests of the Union as a whole during their presidency. And in this too, our main national interest, in the Presidency, is to carry out these tasks successfully and that our partners in Europe will assess at the end of June 2008 that Slovenia has done its job well. Slovenia's first formal participation as future president was the preparation of a joint 18-month programme of three Presidencies, which has already been discussed today. I would just like to stress that Slovenia's role in this has been active, and our initiatives have been taken into account, so that this 18-month programme is to a large extent our work. The next important step will be to prepare the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency. These are priorities during our 6-month presidency. It is a political message presented by each Presidency to the Council of the European Union, to the European Parliament and to the public at the time of the takeover of the Presidency. Prior to the public presentation of these priorities, the Government will take note of them in this high assembly. These priorities will identify, in particular, the content that we see as most important for the achievement of the common interests of the Union during our Presidency. As a rule, it will be the contents of the so-called inherited agenda. The new initiatives are, of course, possible, but will only be successful if they can be justified in the light of the wider interest of the Union. In Europe today, there is broad political consensus on the policies that the European Union must implement in order to achieve the results expected by its citizens. These policies certainly include the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs. During our presidency, there will be a review of the operation of this strategy. Energy supply and the fight against climate change are certainly an important part of the Lisbon Strategy, and this has already been mentioned today. We will pay particular attention to the completion of the internal market, to improve its functioning, to further liberalisation and to the more transparent legislation governing the internal market. During our presidency, important Commission initiatives are envisaged in this area, which will be prepared by the Commission on the basis of a review of the functioning of the internal market, which is expected in the autumn. The improved strategy, however, has several components, not only the competitiveness of the economy, but also the simultaneous concern for the environment, but also the challenges of social security. The unity of the European Union is not only in its achievements in the single market but also in the development of the European social security model. As a starting point for discussion on these issues, the Commission is expected to present a so-called social reality review, which is already under discussion and concrete initiatives will be discussed during our Presidency. I must also mention a review of the impact of the CAP reform, the review of the EU budget, these are the checks we are already successfully preparing for. I will not proceed with any individual content, these contents are being prepared intensively, mainly through ministries, which will lead discussions in areas within their competence. Allow me to conclude this performance now, with the following view: the Presidency is a project, requiring all of us here today to join forces and, with the successful implementation of the Presidency, justify the confidence of the Member States and the European public. Slovenia is and wants to remain a trusted partner in Europe and the world in the future. And I believe we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Our two committees, the European Union Affairs Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy, have also considered the proposal for a declaration as competent working bodies. I give the floor to Mr Kokal, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, to present the report of the Committee on the proposal for a declaration and to the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u8	At its 81st regular meeting on 23 February 2007, on the basis of Article 154.f of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a competent working body, at its 81st regular meeting, the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period of January 2007 in accordance with Article 5(2) of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union and Article 154.f of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the State to the Assembly for consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Within the time limit set, the amendments to the proposal for a declaration were tabled by the following proposers: the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. To these amendments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the Committee a written position in which the amendments were supported. The initial presentation of the draft declaration was made by Janez Lenarčič, State Secretary for European Affairs, the basis of the declaration is the 18-month programme of the Presidency of Germany, Portugal and Slovenia, and preparations for the effective Presidency of the Union, the future of the Union and the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, the strengthening of the area of freedom of security and justice and the strengthening of the external role of the European Union in the field of security, development and economic relations. In the debate, members and members of the Committee highlighted the following themes: the need for the early establishment of the Schengen regime, the candidacy of the Republic of Slovenia for the seat of the Galileo Supervisory Authority, the need for an active role of Slovenia in the adoption of new European patent legislation that would help to achieve the Lisbon objectives, and in relation to environmental pollution, it would be considered by some members to consider adopting a directive to regulate the lighting of the night sky. In the framework of the proposal for a declaration under consideration, the Committee adopted amendments relating to the following chapters: the introduction, the chapter of the Lisbon Strategy, to which two amendments were submitted and adopted, to increase the external role of the European Union in the area of security, development and economic relations, and to the chapter on gender equality. As already stated in its supplementary introduction, the National Assembly accepts with this declaration the responsibility and the important role played by national parliaments in European Union matters when they participate in parliamentary debates on current European topics both in the Republic of Slovenia and at the level of the European Union. The National Assembly also stresses the important and active role of its working bodies - both of its parent and competent bodies, particularly during the preparation for the Presidency, as well as during the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Given that the European Union has been in the so-called institutional crisis, it is clear that the national parliaments must play an important role in finding future solutions, so their undeniably important role must be recognised. It is precisely because of the desire to make the most democratic decision, not least after seeking solutions that will ease the problem of alienating the institutions of the European Union from its people, that it is impossible to avoid the issue of the role played by national parliaments in this context. With the adoption of the other amendments, it has been more precisely defined in some areas how Slovenia will continue, for example, through an audit debate in the framework of the overall reform of the European Union's public finances, which is announced for the period 2008-2009, that is to say, for the duration of our Presidency of integration. In addition, the relevant amendment stressed that the Slovenian intercultural dialogue within the framework of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue project will take place throughout the territory of the Western Balkan countries. Slovenia will seek to increase the share of demanding jobs through its development-oriented economic policy, particularly with the knowledge of intensive jobs - this is the content of the 2nd Amendment on the Lisbon Strategy. With regard to gender equality, the text of the declaration included an amendment defining Slovenia's role in the field of gender equality in the tria. The amendments adopted are included in the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Following the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on the supplementary proposal for a declaration and adopted the following decision: At its 81st regular meeting on 23 February 2007, the Committee on European Union Affairs adopted at its 81st regular meeting, on 23 February 2007, a supplementary proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period from January 2007 to July 2008. At its 85th regular meeting on 23 March 2007, on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 154th of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a competent working body, the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the supplementary proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union was also considered by the European Union during the period January 2007 - July 2008, which it submitted on 20 March 2007. The amendment proposal proposes that, within the framework of the chapter Social Policy, Health and Consumers and its sub-chapter Health should be given priority to the areas of cancer and promoting the development of guidelines and a quality programme for the control of cancer and the uniform treatment of Member States. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, said that the Government of the proposed amendment does not support it because it considers that it is too narrow. The amendment received the support of one of the members of the committee, who marked it as a marked improvement in the situation in Slovenia. After the discussion, the Committee did not adopt the following decision. At its 85th regular meeting on 23 March 2007, the Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union addressed the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club of 20 March 2007 to the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2007 - June 2008 and supported it after the debate. Thus, this decision was not supported by the Committee. The European Union Affairs Committee therefore supports the updated proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions during the period January 2007 - June 2008, adopted by the Committee at its 81st regular meeting on 23 February 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Jerovšk, to present the report of the Committee on the proposal for a declaration and to the supplementary proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy considered the title material submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introduction, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, presented the proposal for a declaration. He stressed that it was prepared on the basis of the Commission's work programme for the coming year and the 18-month programme of the Presidency of Germany, Portugal and Slovenia and contained the following thematic sets: Union development, general economic framework, policy coordination, growth and jobs, sustainable development, research, knowledge, innovation, competitiveness, energy, transport, employment, social policy, health and consumers, gender equality, structure, cohesion policy, common agricultural policy, fisheries, the environment, the area of freedom of security and justice and external relations. Slovenia's most important priority in 2007 will be to continue intensive preparation in all areas by fully preparing Slovenia on 1 January 2008 for all the dimensions of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Slovenia will pay particular attention to the progress of the discussions on the general destiny of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe and will also take priority in the future in securing the ratification process and more coherent solutions to the situation. As an advocate for further enlargement, Slovenia will work towards progress in the accession negotiations between the Union and Croatia and Turkey at the General Affairs and External Relations Council in December 2006. Slovenia supports the membership of both countries and advocates the need to meet all the criteria and conditions for membership. As regards Croatia, Slovenia expects it to take over the European acquis, practice and European standards as soon as possible and fully as possible. Slovenia will also support the establishment of a date for the start of accession negotiations with Macedonia, which has been a candidate country since December 2005. With regard to the Western Balkans, the main issue in 2007 will be the identification of Kosovo's status, the development of the situation in Serbia and the relations between the European Union and Serbia and the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The MNEs are working together with Austria and Slovenia to maintain contacts between the people of the European Union and the Western Balkans, including through audit facilities. The importance of a European neighbourhood policy aimed at the east and the south-oriented Barcelona process, which has received less attention in the past, needs to be stressed. In the framework of the Barcelona process, Slovenia is working towards the establishment of a Mediterranean university based in Piran. Slovenia will continue its efforts to develop and strengthen its strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, as the potential for further cooperation in the field of energy in particular remains high. In 2007, the European Union-Latin America Summit in Lima, Peru, will continue to develop relations between the European Union and Latin America. Slovenia attaches great importance to the transatlantic partnership and will seek to further strengthen it in the future. Slovenia will spend most of its funding on development assistance through international organisations, as well as through the European Union budget. Slovenia's bilateral development cooperation will also focus in 2007 mainly on the Western Balkan countries, Eastern Europe and the Western Caucasus. In the debate, members of the Committee touched on some of the broader issues, such as the state of readiness of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ministries to take over tasks related to the Presidency of the European Union, the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, the further association process with Serbia, the issue of the withdrawal of Slovenian military instructors from Iraq, the further development of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, the resolution of the Kosovo status issue, the lifting of visas for Macedonia, the issue of demographic change and the issue of minority protection in the European Union. The Committee adopted the following amendment: At the same time, Slovenia will actively seek to establish a Mediterranean university based in the Republic of Slovenia. And at today's urgent session, the Committee on Foreign Policy has also endorsed the amendment to the updated proposal for a declaration, which says that Slovenia will help Montenegro strengthen administrative competence with the aim of achieving its European perspective as quickly as possible. At the end of the report, let me point out that the Committee on Foreign Policy is also awaiting in-depth cooperation with the external policy committees of the EU Member States, as the meeting of all committee presidents in the Presidency country is traditional and an essential part of the activities during the Presidency. I can stress that the Committee is already extremely interested and that in this context we have received practically invitations from all the very important world powers. We have already visited some of them, and the role of Slovenia at the time of the presidency is also reflected in this light. Finally, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period of January 2007 and supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the proposal for a declaration. I invite Mr Frantz Ferri Horvat first to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers, representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, and all others who accompany this important debate! The treatment of declarations with the priorities of action in the institutions of the European Union is not only a routine routine consideration at the plenary session of the National Assembly, as is the case with the Cooperation Act between the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in matters of the European Union. We see in particular two valid reasons for this. Firstly, there are many substantive challenges ahead of us, directly to Europe's future and its citizens and its roles in an increasingly globalised world, and secondly, the Presidency of Slovenia, which means a great recognition for our country, a great challenge and new opportunities as well as risks. Therefore, we sincerely want and expect that Slovenia will make maximum use of this historic opportunity for its own and common European enforcement and development. As far as the text of the declaration is concerned, we assess that the orientations of the declaration and the definition of priorities in the institutions of the European Union are good. However, given the experience so far, others and ours, we well note that there would be as few differences as possible between these guidelines and the actual functioning of the Government, the National Assembly and others, both within the institutions of the European Union and in the country itself. In addition to the general guidelines for operating within the European Union institutions, the assessment of the actual credibility and performance of Slovenia will depend to a large extent also on the performance of tasks, commitments and finally on the results on the home stage. I am therefore devoting the focus of the debate to some of the priorities that are in the interest of the European Union and particularly in the interest of Slovenia. I'm not going to talk about all the questions because there are too many, they're going to be talked about by my colleagues and colleagues. Although the present declaration already speaks of the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, the role of the National Assembly has been completely abandoned in the content of the declaration and priorities, at least the text we have received from the Government. I don't know if it was intentional or accidental. We therefore strongly support the amendment of the Committee on European Union Affairs, which highlights the role and importance of the national Parliament in the introductory part. It is a fact that, already after the draft Treaty on the Constitution of the European Union and in practice, an increasing role for national parliaments and their working bodies has been ensured in addressing current issues of action and the future of the European Union. We are increasingly participating in meetings of working bodies or at other meetings in the European Parliament or in the Presidency. In Social Democracy, we are convinced of the urgent need for a constitutional treaty, and we therefore support the direction set out in the declaration presented here today by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, and we are even proposing or advocating to accelerate the implementation of the Constitutional Treaty. It will be difficult or even impossible to reach a better compromise, and it is also necessary to work actively to find possible transitional or compromise solutions so as not to finally remain in the blockade of Nico or nothing. This will not only be an obstacle to enlargement, but it is essential for the effective and more democratic functioning of the European Union and its greater role in the global world. We think it is right to guide the EU enlargement, to negotiate with the Republic of Croatia and Turkey, and to set a date for negotiations with Macedonia. Of course, all candidates are subject to the conditions for meeting the criteria for entry into the European Union. For us Social Democrats, the Lisbon Strategy is very important. In doing so, it is particularly important for Slovenia and its credibility in the European Union to implement the national programme in Slovenia, in particular to ensure faster economic growth, more quality jobs - especially for young and older people, and to promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The successful introduction of the euro means a great recognition for Slovenia. However, according to European experience, this in itself did not guarantee faster economic development. This is reflected in recent years, and this has also been shown by the recent debate in the European Parliament when we gathered parliamentarians from national parliaments, including ours, and European parliamentarians on the subject of the euro area and its development in the future. It will therefore be necessary, within the framework of the European Union, and in particular within the euro area, when implementing the Stability and Growth Pact, to give greater emphasis to the coordination of economic policies as well as tax policies in order to achieve the key objectives of the European social market model: faster growth, more jobs, greater social and territorial cohesion. Structural and cohesion policy is extremely important for the European Union and especially Slovenia, as the implementation of the new financial perspective starts this year from 2007 to 2013. This allows Slovenia to significantly increase, more precisely, four times as much resources, which are important for the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia and the resolution on the development priorities of Slovenia and, above all, for a more successful policy of coherent regional development. Regrettably, the Slovenian Government, in particular some ministries, is also late in the preparation and delivery of the necessary documents, the national strategic reference framework, and the operational programmes compared with some other new members of the European Union. In addition, according to information from Brussels, shortcomings in the quality of the documents submitted have been present in documents recently delivered to Brussels. Experts estimate that some operational programmes in the European Commission will not be confirmed until summer or even autumn of this year. This seriously jeopardises the use of the European Union's potential funds in 2007. These are not only the findings of a critical opposition Member, but these findings also come from the government's sources a few days ago. Public finances and budgets are among the priorities of the European Union and Slovenia, both European and national, which is understandable, as budgets are both a major economic and social policy instrument on the expenditure side. Both professional and responsible policies are united that it is essential to restructure budgets in favour of developing the competitiveness of employment and cohesion. Slovenia is still lagging behind in the European Union's analyses on R & D expenditure, and unfortunately we have also failed to warn the Social Democrats about the adoption of current and previous budgets. The current debate on the changes to the tax system, which will be more uniform in Europe over the longer term. In addition to simplification and transparency, the tax system remains an important instrument of economic and social policy. We support guidance in the declaration and priorities, for example, let the VAT exemption be as low as possible, but the specific problems and needs of individual countries, including Slovenia, must be taken into account. In Slovenia, this is certainly housing construction, in particular the construction of rental apartments, where the backlog has far-reaching consequences, particularly demographic ones. A recent European Council agreement on energy policy related to the dramatic development of the environment is very important. For Slovenia, this means an additional commitment and an opportunity to reduce energy waste, as Slovenia is still well above European energy intensity according to the latest data. Therefore, the implementation of the modern energy strategy related to projects in the region and Europe will be further accelerated. In the area of employment policy, which remains one of the EU's top priorities, Slovenia will have to take into account the recommendations of the European Commission and the Council, and of course our constant warnings, in particular, remain unsatisfactory and lagging behind for the EU in the worrying low level of employment of young people, women and older people. In addition to greater resources for active employment policy, it is essential to improve the work of the services. The European Commission points out this in particular in its assessment of Slovenia. Greater and better employment opportunities are a prerequisite for greater labour market flexibility. For Slovenia as a relatively small and open economy, exports throughout history have been one of the main drivers of development and will continue to do so in the future. In particular, as regards the added value and the involvement of medium and small enterprises, the situation is not satisfactory. The situation and even the decline of foreign direct investment is also unsatisfactory. For example, according to data for last year, the EU is also paying particular attention. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible that in all years of government autonomy and other factors, except for the exceptions of individual companies, have failed to ensure effective economic promotion abroad. Our diplomatic consular representations, including from our biggest partner in the Federal Republic of Germany, have rightly warned us about inefficiency in this area. On visits to Brussels and elsewhere, we note that even some new EU members and candidates with promotion are more present and active than Slovenia. It is worrying that, apart from the beautiful celebration in Ljubljana, we have not taken advantage of the successful introduction of the euro. The friendly praises of European and other politicians are not enough. Knowledge of Slovenia's opportunities and opportunities in wider business circles in Europe and the world is essential. Therefore, it is more than necessary not to miss the opportunity offered by the EU Presidency. International development assistance and development cooperation are becoming an ever-increasing topic of the EU and the global world. This is also the way for the EU and Slovenia to become more involved in the global world. Unfortunately, Slovenia is also lagging behind in this area, both in terms of volume of resources, although we have very specific commitments in terms of scale and time, and in terms of organisation. This topic is addressed by each Presidency of the European Union. On the basis of the law we adopted last year, the final phase of the preparation of the strategy for international development cooperation is the preparation of an international development cooperation strategy. It is imperative that we accept it as soon as possible and also implement it so that we are not embarrassed during our presidency. And let me make a decision. We want and expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the government coalition to accept the readiness and offer for maximum participation in the formation of the positions and activities of the Presidency, regardless of party affiliation. We are pleased that the Prime Minister stressed this in the opening presentation, because it is an important and responsible project for the state of Slovenia and not just for the current or any government. In this regard, we also expect the government to maximize its engagement with the necessary knowledge and experience for this demanding project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I invite Dr. Mitja Slavinc to present the report of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished ministers. Thank you for your word, lovely greeting. This year's proposal for a declaration is the fourth in line with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to contribute to Slovenia's clear and transparent policy in European matters, as well as to inform the general public of its achievements so far on the open issues facing the European Union and its members. This year's declaration is even more important for us, as it reaches the time when Slovenia, as the first of its last members, will also chair and therefore also contain the priorities of this term of office. These priorities are very ambitious in view of the current status quo of the European Union and in particular due to the uncertainty of the fate of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe. We in principle support the proposal for a declaration in the LDS, but I would like to mention some of the concerns or suggestions we have in this regard. First of all, we are disturbed by the very small role played by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. The European Union's affairs should not be kept up to date only once a year when the debate on the declaration is under way, but should start by modifying the functioning of the European Union Affairs Committee in the National Assembly. Why now, and what would you like to change? The role of Parliament has remained unchanged since Slovenia's entry into the European Union - both in European Union legislative acts and in the rest of the acts, the National Assembly has very little power. On the Committee on European Union Affairs, we generally only confirm the position of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to legislative acts and other acts, and this goes beyond closed doors. I am sure that many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have not heard at all about the Committee on European Union Affairs in our Parliament. On the other hand, the European Commission, as well as some other institutions, are acting in a reverse direction, want national parliaments to be as involved as possible in order for national parliaments to forward proposals and comments as soon as possible and thus also to act in the drafting of legislative texts. Thus, the Commission has also begun to send its legislative proposals directly to national parliaments, from which it expects as many proposals and opinions as possible. We believe that the role of Parliament and the manner in which the committee responsible should operate must be strengthened, this is the Committee on European Union Affairs. There is no reason for meetings where the position is not addressed, which would weaken the negotiating role and negotiating power of Slovenia, to be closed to the public. When non-secret acts of the European Union are on the agenda, it makes sense to open up. Thus, there have been changes at the level of the European Union at the level of the EU Council as it has two new sessions, the first to discuss legislative acts and is public, and the second to pursue activities that are not legislative and closed to the public. We therefore believe that the opening of some meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs would be a positive step before the start of Slovenia's first presidency, since after three years of full membership in the EU, it is also time to assess the relationship of these institutions. Finally, public action is also enshrined in the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, since the European Parliament has always debated and decided publicly on legislative acts. So why shouldn't our Parliament work in the same way? Finally, we would not only bring these Slovenian citizens and citizens closer to the functioning of the European Union as well as the competent committee in our Parliament, but we would also achieve greater involvement of the National Assembly in the creation of European Union legislation, not only the European Commission's objective, but also an important lever for how the Republic of Slovenia can better implement its priorities and objectives in European legislation. At the same time, we propose that the health sub-chapter, as a priority, explicitly implements the cancer control programme, in order to produce a quality programme as well as a single study, that this is also a priority during our presidency to achieve a similar situation in other Member States. Data on cancer and the state of care of patients are of concern. In light of the latest developments in relation to the situation at the Oncology Institute and the statements of the society of cancer patients in Slovenia, it seems clear in the declaration that Slovenia's intention is to regulate the situation in the area of cancer. The inclusion of this area among Slovenia's Presidency priorities would constitute Slovenia's commitment to raise the issue at European Union level and help to develop such a health policy that will reduce, on the one hand, the gap between members and also show the European Union that Slovenia is responding to existing problems and is able to respond to challenges. The next important priority that we believe Slovenia should take up and set itself as a binding target is to reduce administrative barriers by 25% at the national level as well. Often, completely unnecessary and irrational administrative barriers reduce the competitiveness of the European Union either at national level, for example, in the internal market or in the Union as a whole in the global market. The first step in this direction may be a patent at the level of the community that will thus simplify the protection of intellectual property in the European Union. Finally, let me say our support for the establishment of the European Institute of Technology, but it must be sufficiently decentralised so that it does not cause additional brain escape, this time at international level. For Slovenia, however, it would be best to obtain the seat of this institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bajc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, who are still insisting and listening to presentations of the views of the groups of Members and in the future, of the individual Members of the groups of Members. The National Assembly shall, for a period of one and a half years, adopt a declaration on the guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions. This is an important document through which the National Assembly can co-form or direct the activities of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of legislative activities in the European Union. The proposal for a declaration shall be defined up to all the key themes covered by the European Union in this field. In general, we can see that the proposed declaration takes on the rights of view and follows the current direction of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, when it is adopted, we would like to highlight some areas that are also identified by the proposed declaration that we are considering today. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, it is undoubtedly essential to ensure the European and the Slovenian future of the Lisbon Strategy and its associated growth in the competitiveness of the European Union and the Member States of the European Union. Economic and social reforms, taking into account environmental direction, are urgently needed. Unfortunately, however, we are constantly faced with the fact that changes and adjustments are taking place too slowly, especially in the field of knowledge and innovation research, that the European Union is hardly growing the conservative focus of research and education institutions in Europe, which believe that change must be slow. This isn't my time. In this regard, I would like to draw particular attention to innovations that are one of the key themes and challenges not only of the European Union, but of Slovenia in particular. We will probably also briefly consider the National Higher Education Programme for the next period. As in the document of the European Union, as well as the substantive guidelines and documents of our country, in our view, there are good objectives. This proves that we are all aware of where our shortcomings are and what we must do to improve the situation in a given area. On the other hand, the realization of the written is somewhat more questionable. These, at least that's what we think, are often caught in a fig in our pocket. Of course, it is also possible for us to be unrealistic in certain directions and write down some goals more because of them than to actually achieve them in the future. The European Union will have to face some issues and dilemmas that exclude each other. In spite of all good wishes, the innovation and research environment can be fully developed only under conditions of full flexibility of the labour force, especially the best experts from individual fields in each country. Of course, this fact often does not go hand in hand with guidelines in the field of labour law, which, due to the social component and the provision of many rights related to employment, the free development of research and resulting innovation, do not allow or prevent it at least. The link between the economy in research institutions is only real where there are strong economic centres. In the Republic of Slovenia, however, the case of Krka and its integration or integration of both research institutes as well as findings or universities is well known. A comprehensive approach is therefore needed. Education is an area that can provide knowledge. However, quality and good knowledge must become a key comparative advantage for the EU and the whole world. In doing so, we are also willing or reluctant as a competing country with other EU members. And that's good. Slovenia must actively pursue the actual implementation of the direction of the Bologna process, so that the Presidents of the European Union can encourage the development of this area. If we look at the current situation in Slovenia in this area, we cannot say otherwise than that we only settled the Bologna Process on paper. There are, of course, some bright exceptions, but without a serious approach to Slovenia, neither the EU can become competitive in the world. We therefore expect further efforts by Slovenia in the EU to strengthen education and at the same time more clear and concrete actions in our country, which will promote quality, especially in higher education, and contribute to greater mobility of both students and teachers between EU Member States. The young are our future. The EU is still aware of the importance of young people, whether it is the issue of birthrates, negative demographic trends or youth, which is a particularly sensitive social group. Young people often remind us that young civil society in Slovenia is dying. Young people aren't as active as they used to be. The voluntary work of young people is not appreciated. Not on the side of the country either. The labour market also does not recognise enough experience and voluntary work. Both Slovenia and the EU must devote significantly more space to this issue than ever before. In Slovenia we have the Office for Youth, but it obviously does not achieve the desired goals. Last but not least, in Slovenia we do not yet have a system law on youth, nor a national programme on youth, although one and another document is expected to be adopted several times in the last decades just before the present, either in treatment or adoption. In the area of agriculture, we support the fundamental orientation for economic and social sustainability and green and market-oriented agriculture. In particular, it would highlight the further promotion of organic agriculture and the appropriate labelling of organic products. For organic agriculture, the needs of a comprehensive policy are appropriate measures to promote organic production. Here, both the EU and Slovenia must take a very clear course. When labelling organic products, however, it is necessary to make particular efforts to identify labelling. At present, there is a whole range of signs and indications for different types of organic products, which is why the buyer does not have a clear overview of the offer. In the EU, Slovenia should in particular follow the principle of transparency in the area of labelling of organic crops. In addition, there is a need for more attention to be paid to the educational aspects and promotion of healthy food and a healthy lifestyle. In the field of the environment, we must be aware that in Slovenia we have an environment that is once more enviable and clean and that this allows us many advantages, especially in the area of agriculture and tourism. Therefore, in the light of the conservation of the environment, Slovenia must strive for a strict environmental protection regime, while at the same time allowing for equal opportunities in particular in the field of emission rights. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed declaration follows the right direction. However, we must express our expectations that Slovenia will not only follow these guidelines and defend them within the framework of the European institutions, but above all that it will ensure its effective and consistent implementation at home. Swearing at European level, in particular within Slovenia, would also mean a faster development of our country and consequently a better life for our citizens and citizens. Implementation is crucial and can make Slovenia an example of good practice. It would be a shame if we didn't take advantage of the options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be given by colleague Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the government! Today we are talking about a declaration. According to the definition of the dictionary, the declaration is a public declaration and if the National Assembly confirms this declaration, it means that it has made an important public statement which commits itself, in principle, to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to respect it and to realize it. The declaration consists of two parts alone, and you probably already know, colleagues and colleagues, those who are more interested in drawing up a 2006 report on the situation in the European Union and Slovenia, as well as an important part of the Commission's communication to the Council in the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the region. We have been very, very active in the Slovenian National Party since the beginning as regards the work and life of Slovenia in the new European Union country. That is why we have taken seriously the review of this declaration and we will stress all that is good and successful for this country, as well as what is missing in this declaration, which is not in principle and which does not oblige this country to do as it does flat and imagined sometimes very superficially. First, the essence of the development of the Union. This is a matter of whether or not there is a continuation or termination of the Treaty establishing the European Union. This, however, is the one, colleagues and colleagues who will determine the future of 27 members' lives and many others new. If you don't mind. Slovenia supports, as far as I read from the declaration, the so-called two-tier approach, which means some indiscretion, if you ask me. It means: whether we come to a constitutional treaty that we are writing, or whether we will continue with contracts that are actually a substitute for a constitutional treaty at this point - this is the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, the 1997 Amsterdam Treaty and the 2000 Nice Treaty. First, given that we have heard today that this declaration is possible and that it has also been opened, which is welcomed, that it was opened on the Committee on European Affairs, but that openness is somewhat illegal. In the Slovenian National Party, we are the first to say clearly and loudly, if the continuation of the Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice treaties has already been introduced in this two-way, we have already said once again and once again clearly and loudly: let us write in this declaration that Slovenia should do so at the time of the Presidency if the Constitutional Treaty is not already in place, the so-called "Blejska Treaty". Why the hell not? Why don't we continue this treaty if there's no constitution and make Blejska or Ljubljana? That would be the first step nobody talks about. But we've talked about this before, and this is a serious comment. The second area related to this constitutional treaty, which will or will not be, or to treaties that are and are possible for the future, is the enlargement of the European Union. First of all, I must say that we are not in the Slovenian National Party and we cannot agree that Bulgaria and Romania have gone a little overboard to the European Union. Yesterday and today, we heard from the minister yesterday who answered Mr Trinitarian Jelinčič's question, how we were when we saw how bad it was if someone didn't want us. But they didn't want us, we weren't ready, Europe didn't take us, until we met all the conditions bilaterally, we solved the issues with Austria and Italy. If you have read, Bulgaria and Romania still have some unfulfilled obligations, but they are members. This is an inadequacy that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, should not support - in this declaration. The third issue, which we are not talking about in this part, is the Copenhagen criteria, which are linked to further enlargement. About this a little later on in the expansion itself or at this very moment. From informal sources, we have learned that in 2009 Croatia is to become an equal member of the European Union. If the European Council so decides, it must decide unanimously. Okay. But if this country meets all the Copenhagen criteria. On the other hand, we say we also support Turkey. We have supported Turkey already, or have supported it since 1958. And Turkey has also now agreed to some criteria that it has not previously accepted. I hope that we will treat these two countries equally. And we have formed a third class, a third-rate country, which is contrary to the so-called Western Balkan country. And even today, we have heard or will be critical of this. Last but not least, the Western Balkan countries are all countries, excuse me, Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, etc. And it would be good for Slovenia to support - we do not mind if we support or support these countries - if they meet all the necessary criteria, and if they enter or enter one block as they meet the criteria. However, it is not that Bulgaria and Romania will happen, where one or maybe two countries will enter the European Union without fulfilling the criteria which the State of the Republic of Slovenia has worked hard to achieve. Thank God it is, and it is deservedly a member of the European Union, so it also has these successes that we do not dispute in the Slovenian National Party. Schengna area. The tasks for Slovenia are clearly defined as what they are. But we are witnessing a great delay. In the directive we have clear definitions that extending Schengen and eliminating internal border controls is one of the most important political priorities of Europe and Slovenia. The date that has been set is, at last, stated. It's December 2007. Those of you who have dealt with Europe know that this date has already been moved and postponed twice. In this regard, I support the principled position and insistence between the lines of understanding, the countries of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to request the completion of these dates for Schengen. So 2007 is the last date and 2008, we're talking about SIS2, which is the second generation Schengen Information System, which is supposed to be introduced then and where the delays are. As far as stability and growth are concerned, I am concerned that Slovenia lists in the declaration the countries that are subject to the conditions, i.e. the 3% threshold of the public financial deficit, or 60% of the threshold of the public financial debt, do not. They're not holding up. And these are Britain, Italy, Poland, Slovakia and even Hungary. And no criticism in this area of the Stability and Growth Pact, which Slovenia rightly supports, has shown a lot of positive results, but Slovenia should be firm and demand all these countries to adhere to the established criteria, 3% of GDP and 60% of the public-financial debt threshold. As far as growth and jobs are concerned. Excellent data in Europe are: economic growth is almost 3% higher, unemployment is expected to decrease by 8% in 2007. Slovenia supports such growth and working relations, but the declaration itself does not mention what and how we will be able to include a proportionate part of the growth and decline of unemployment in Slovenia. Why am I saying this? I speak because Slovenia, in principle, supports the free movement of labour and, if you have read it, reads: "...especially Bulgaria and Romania." Why did Slovenia not write in brackets in the declaration in particular Germany, Austria, France, where they acquired a reservation to free movement? Meaning: All unemployed from large and rich European countries may come to Slovenia, but Slovenians should not come to work in Germany, France, Austria if necessary, because they have a reservation or have achieved that they are not subject to the free movement of labour for a certain period. This is not fair, it is not fair and Slovenia must write for all those countries that have acquired such a right. Why not Slovenia? At today's rate of unemployment, which thank God is not so great, but not so small, he is quietly employed by Bulgarians, Romanians and Slovaks. In the Slovenian National Party, we oppose this because big and rich countries are taking this right, but not just to protect them, but not to hire our own people. As far as the energy field is concerned in the declaration itself, dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we would like to stress only that the energy policy envisaged in the declaration is, in fact, a summary of European policies and European wishes. Maybe you know some, maybe not that there's gonna be a division of production and a division of electricity distribution. In this context, be well aware that in this market, i.e. the European market, a huge demand for who will be the distributor will be slightly smaller, who will be the producer of this electricity, and even less the question of which energy and what other energy will be used in the country of Slovenia. In this area, there is a great demand for the Ministry of the Economy to just study, because, last but not least, I believe that we would like to have the purest fuel, but the purest fuel at this point is gas. Gas is expensive, we don't have gas. We cannot forget, however, that in the country of the Republic of Slovenia we also have solid fuels, which European energy policy also welcomes and maintains. This element must also be included in Slovenia, but not as fast as possible, we are speaking to the party, but to go nuclear as soon as possible, because it is the best, gas, wind, although in the world, the Germans themselves have acknowledged, for them even the pollution of energy, and we have not specifically written in the declaration that we will retain all kinds of energy and that we will strive to be an equal partner in the production and distribution of electricity in Europe in proportion to size and power and capacity. And the essence of everything that I am particularly pleased with today's speech is not, but it is between us, the Foreign Minister. In 2003, the Presidents of the governments of the European Union, the Council of Europe, decided that there would be a seat, I will say at home, of the space European agencies, like NASA in America, in one of the ten new Member States. His name is Galileo. I'm stressing again. Slovenia [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] until 2003. [[...]] Slovenia is, today we have heard, the most developed country among the ten. Slovenia has already made a partial effort to have this seat. However, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, let us be honest and let this be written down and let this be known to be too little. Why? Because we are today in 2007, and some have already gathered two important European institutions and seats, we are still in the clouds and we do not know because they are still candidates for Galileo Malta, the Czech Republic and Slovenia. I think that today would be a time or a time, because this declaration is precisely for the period of the EU's leadership, that this declaration is a time in which we should be firm, not as it says on page 40 of this declaration, but a firm record that Slovenia's final goal is double - as the Minister has said, and I will be very happy to hold on to the word - that we will get the European Mediterranean University, based in Piran, and that we will get the Slovenians Galileo. Of course, yesterday, I told the well-respected Minister of Transport, who is the only culprit, although innocently, that I informally know that there will be a political agreement between these two options. It's easy for us to talk, and I believe the minister, as he said. Here I have his magnetogram, which is why I went to look for it: "With the proposal to establish a European Mediterranean University, based in Piran, Slovenia offers cooperation to Mediterranean partners. We anticipate that during the period covered by this declaration, there will be a decision on the seat of the Galileo supervisory agency, for which Slovenia is also running." And the fact that Slovenia is the first of the new Member States to be entrusted with the EU Presidency imposes a special responsibility on us. I hope that this special responsibility means that it imposes a special responsibility on us to obtain both seats. I already know today we won't. That is why I am already warning on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that this is a serious warning. Every country that has presided has achieved something so far. In her own words, she put something in her pocket and had some of it. And Galileo is what this country would have. It's also the seat of the University of Mediterranean. Galileo brings a number of new jobs, leg technology, the possibility of new scientific development. Imagine that if we like to talk about the United States, you can assume that in Slovenia is the seat of NASA. This is such an advantage, such a desire, such a desire, such an opportunity, which, if this country loses it, has lost enormously. Last but not least, one of the colleagues has already said the attitude towards Parliament in EU matters. Unfortunately, the chairman of the committee, whom I have to say he's trying, no matter what political ape he's from, has been right. Firstly, the attitude of this National Assembly to the Committee on European Union Affairs is debilitating. It is not that we have a special right to sit at two meetings on Fridays. With great joy! The point is that we do not have any rights, but that the sessions are closed. But if the sessions are closed, I'll keep going, what does that mean? Everywhere it was said, Parliament is a bond between Slovenians, i.e. between nationals of one country and the European Union. And we're closing the sessions! That means we're closing down information for the citizens. Citizens have no idea what the European Union is. And last but not least, the saddest thing is that they have no idea of the working body in the National Assembly. When, tell me when - we write in our decision, the Minister of Agriculture at the European Union meeting had such an attitude and the Committee on European Affairs supported it. I would like to know when this committee has met, when this committee has considered and given the right or at least given a positive opinion to the Committee on European Affairs that what the Minister or some minister will say is right. This means that the Committee on European Affairs is a farce in this National Assembly, that the Law on Cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly is only a law that it is. In fact, tell me honestly and honestly all of you, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, with all due respect for the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with all due respect, it has a great deal of responsibility, but it is still under other powers over this Committee, because it has certain rights with which it shares or does not share such or other possibilities with the Committee on European Affairs, which is of course wrong. For me and for all those sitting and working on the Committee, the Committee on European Affairs is the most important body in this National Assembly, where individual committees should have positions in this National Assembly, where it will be known what a minister in Europe will say. That's the point. And, above all, one more question. Today, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I request that this request be made by this National Assembly, in one way or another, by a report on the work of the European Members in the European Parliament. We demand! We do not see them at the meetings of the European Affairs Committee. When were they in this House and told what they were doing? Never! How long have they been there? And two of them, and I'm not gonna name them because you all know they're here more than they are there. Nice or ugly! Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, if we are going seriously to Europe, let us go seriously! But if you want, six others can also sit there in the European Parliament, and we'll be a little bit there, what we're going to talk about, we don't know, we don't know, we don't know, they don't know. So much for the position of the Slovenian National Party in relation to the declaration. In this declaration, I hope that it will be open, we miss this capital position on the status of the Committee on European Affairs, and we demand that the regular reports of Members be in the European Parliament and that the committees in the National Assembly deal regularly with at least important matters, the content presented by ministers at the Council of Europe, the European Council or elsewhere in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u19	As chairman, however, I am obliged to say that all working bodies are equal in the National Assembly. There are no more important and less important. Otherwise, I give the floor to Dr. Gantar on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u20	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a declaration, including the amendments adopted. In doing so, we will not show our enthusiasm for the document, which, in our view, is too small to focus on really fundamental strategic issues. Especially because the declaration also addresses the period of our first Presidency of the European Union. While the declaration itself is a coherent document, we cannot be satisfied with the document, which has the title of the Council's Employment Priorities for the period January 2007 - July 2008. This is a year-and-a-half period, and the document lists all possible ongoing and future activities. If we really wanted to implement them, let alone realize them in this period, we would need the truth not only for years and a half, but 10 times a year and a half. Therefore, this document is quite useless as a reference to work. Apparently it was created on a sectoral path, so all individual ministries and services have drawn up their documents, in which they have simply stated what they are doing and what they intend to do. The sum total of all of this is relatively difficult to digest. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! I would, of course, like to start by giving an assessment on Slovenia in the European Union. The story is really simple - Slovenia's entry into the European Union, its membership so far, including taking over the euro, entry into the monetary union is a success story. There is something like this, and it shows that the benefits of this entry go far beyond what is lacking, that what is actually happening is exactly what some representatives of the countries, when we are not yet members, have told us that it is for small countries that this is the greatest opportunity. A simple large market, i.e. the opportunities and opportunities that are opening up, especially in connection with the euro takeover, can only benefit us. And if Europe's going well, it can't be bad for us. But of course we also need to know that if Europe goes badly, especially to the largest countries, then we will have only a few levers so that we don't go badly. Therefore, it is also necessary to prepare measures and also work to avoid those cycle movements that are coming and to at least soften them. In doing so, it is important to stress, and this is a lack of both documents, that, like the Governor of the European Central Bank and as governors of the national central banks, this is a monetary union, it is totally unacceptable, intolerable and unacceptable that one member of the monetary union actually has limitations, say migration and labour flow. This should be the position and position in the sense that we expect this inequality to be eliminated, this disturbance to the financial market too, not only the labour market, before Slovenia can preside over the European Union or, at the latest, at the time of its presidency. As I am already in the Presidency, it is necessary to know that, during this period under consideration, this will be one of the key tasks. In principle, the objectives of the Presidency can be agreed on, although we could also agree on other objectives. These objectives are, as you know, the Western Balkans, intercultural dialogue. I support this, I come from such a profession that I am never satisfied with intercultural dialogue, but this is a very elusive goal. It will be very difficult to quantify, and we will not be able to miss much here either. Of course, institutional reform and the work related to the future fate of the Constitutional Treaty and all that has been said today is the promotion of education, science, etc. Of course, it is not only about the goals that we will set ourselves, but also about the tasks that will fall on us in the course of the Presidency. It can be a solution to some crisis situations, less likely within Europe, more likely outside Europe, in our vicinity. Some of what's going to fall on us, we didn't want it or we wouldn't want it, and we can predict it today. As an example, which I repeat several times, some colleagues will already be bored with this, world leaders have agreed to reduce CO2 emissions or greenhouse emissions calculated at CO2 equivalent by 20% in the post-Kyoto period, from 2012 to 2020. This is what the Prime Minister mentioned today as a particularly important issue. I agree with him. This reduction will obviously be structured or different from member to member, depending on the ratio and specificities in the Member States. Some are likely to be allocated higher and others lower quotas and smaller obligations. Although our representatives said a month and a half ago that the reduction would be the same. And because this seems to fall right on us at the time of our presidency, the coordination of quotas, I would like to point out that this is an extremely crisis, if you want, work, and we should start dealing with this problem today. We should already set up expert groups today, and we should, together with the Commission, check the situation and potential for reductions in individual Member States if we are to take a step forward. If we want to sleep through this period, of course nothing has to be done. The question is also to what extent and how administratively we are able to undertake such a project, or we will leave this matter to the Commission and be only its political service. The Presidency, colleagues and colleagues have already begun, and we in Parliament know relatively little about the concrete plans of this government, before today's performance by the Prime Minister of the Government, we could only claim that the Prime Minister of the Government and the Government are expecting unconditional support from the government in these processes. Such support cannot be promised if we do not know what we will be supporting. Today, we have heard a more concrete proposal from the President of the Government, and this is to propose the signing of an agreement, i.e. to the parties in Parliament, on joint tasks and coordination and on joint work in the Presidency. With such a signature, I am sure that in our Group of Non-Aligned Members, and if you would like, we also agree in the Zares, but we would add that this signature would cover not only parliamentary groups, but also the government, so is Parliament, parliamentary groups and the government. And we will be happy to sign such a signature if it is balanced, corrected and honest. As far as our Presidency of the European Union is concerned, colleagues and colleagues, today, seven months before the Presidency, I can say that our Presidency will be successful. It is not expected that the protocol will make any major mistake that would be visible to TV cameras or journalists and observers. We can expect the presidents of governments, ministers, high officials of the European Commission to smile in front of the cameras, to say the words of respect for Slovenia and also say a lot of nice words at our expense. This will certainly happen, and the Presidency will be confidently successful for the public. It is important, colleagues and colleagues, and it is therefore important to have such an agreement as to what will happen in the background, whether this period in which the Slovenian Presidency will bring some progress to a number of commissions, committees, working groups in solving individual problems, or whether it will be a period in which there will be an empty run in too many areas. It won't be visible, it won't be said, it won't be admitted! But for this we must go; because later it will be told and told what was done during the Slovenian Presidency in addition to the group picture with the lady, if I may say so. And of course, the government is honest, I can say, at least we opposition Members in this group are willing to share this honesty with it and to cooperate. Of course, colleagues and colleagues, all that comes from the European Union is not yet dry gold, it is we who have long known the members of the European Union Affairs Committee, but also before. I would like to stress in particular here that we are disappointed at the efforts and direction of the European Union, the Commission, the Council in the area of freedom and security. We are disappointed because both the Council and the Commission have addressed this issue by making more security conditional on less freedom. And as some of the directives it adopts in this area show, we unfortunately still process them fully in this national assembly, and we accept them in the most acute way. We wonder what the reality will be if there is no freedom and what we will defend ourselves against, if there is a violation of a very fundamental value and that is freedom. Colleagues and colleagues! We all know that, despite the achievements, the European Union is important to us and to Europe, not only because there is no war, but because Europe is economically, culturally and politically more successful, where people live better. That, despite these achievements, we face a crisis of legitimacy and what some call a democratic deficit. Indeed, if we take the current institutional regime of the European Union and we paint it into one national state, say Slovenia, then we should and should say that Slovenia is not a democratic state. For in a democratic country based on what is called a liberal-democratic regime, the legislator cannot share sovereignty with another body, in this case the Council. And there'd be a lot of other reasons. This problem of democratic deficit is also reflected in the work of our Committee on European Affairs, whose meetings are under the law of secrecy. Today, two of my spokesmen have warned of this. In fact, on the Committee on European Affairs, and more broadly, we have discussed and at least, what we can do alone, and do not point to others, is to amend the law to open meetings and to allow for the closure and closure of meetings only then, and only when the public publication of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia would harm the defence of our interests or any other interest in the bodies of the European Union. Therefore, in our view, it is reasonable and necessary to open these meetings and, in the same way as the Council and Parliament have done, to actually publish all these documents on-line and in other ways and to allow at least those who are of little interest to be included. It is true that the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the European Union was marked by the great efforts of the German Chancellor and with the success expressed in this ministerial declaration. I am pleased that the President of the Government is pleased that the Group of Heads of Government and the highest representatives of the countries agreed at this meeting that certain problems must be resolved until the European parliamentary elections in 2009. But if we read the text, we will see that European leaders are calling for the restoration of Europe's common base by 2009, but not, of course, for the renewal and adoption of a constitutional treaty. So today we know nothing more and nothing less than we knew yesterday or the day before. We don't know what the fate of the constitution treaty will be. But we know that there is an effort to make this base one or the other, something that is the context of a constitutional treaty, or something that could be something else or something new. However, this too will fall heavily on the shoulders of our presidency. Once again, I stress that we will support these documents, that we are ready for creative, not only creative, but also for action cooperation on the fundamental and key problems of the Presidency of the European Union, and that, of course, we expect proper and balanced initiatives from the government and the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u22	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Ministers, Government Representatives, Colleagues and Fellows, Honourable Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! The DeSUS Group will support the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in the period January 2007-June 2008. We have before us a relatively extensive document covering all areas of life and work in the European Union. The main emphasis includes the common European objectives of the European Union and the intention within them to realise the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. The key part of the document is the guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia for its operation in institutions during the period appointed. Priorities arising from the review of the current and existing situation are also identified. The Declaration shows the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia to certain content that is particularly relevant. In doing so, our Group supports further efforts to complete the adoption of the European Constitutional Treaty in the least modified form. It also supports the enlargement of the European Union and the inclusion of the newly created countries of the former Yugoslavia under the same conditions as those of the Republic of Slovenia and without leave for countries that would or would protect and not extradite war criminals to the Hague Court. As regards priorities, we want to highlight efforts in the area of environmental protection, with emphasis on the protection of water resources and significant greenhouse gas constraints. In this regard, in our view, the European Union should exert much more pressure on the United States of America, which produces a large percentage of these greenhouse gases and is reviving the Kyoto Protocol, even though they already feel the worst effects of climate change. It is also particularly concerned about our severe energy dependence, which calls for determined efforts to make more cost-effective and more inclusive renewable resources and a coherent common European policy. As a particular problem, let me remind you of a employment policy that may lead to an overriding alternative to long-term unacceptable forms that follow capital requirements more than the needs of people who want a predictable and not uncertain future. Already in the European Union, up to 60% of young workers are employed for a certain period of time, making it impossible for them to create adequate conditions for the early establishment of a family. It would be wrong if we continued to assist only the ever-increasing appetites of the rich and forgot about the poor, who are increasingly less involved in the sharing of newly created values. The Group advocates in the European Union the widest possible exercise of solidarity between generations, without which prosperity cannot be expected for all the population, which means for us a situation in which everyone gets their piece of cake. It is about maintaining a European social model that will allow the further development of the European Union without major shocks. A policy of equal opportunity is also important for us, with discrimination in the employment of young women and other under-inclusion and neglect of women when it comes to social, economic and political life. In this respect, we reject the archaic views and traditions that are still criminal to women, for no real reason. The Presidency of the European Union will also be a unique opportunity for Slovenia to make final recognition and affirmation within and within the community. We should not miss the opportunity to present our cultural wealth and our country in the broadest sense. Everyone can find content for themselves and their own interests in the declaration, so our Group of Members does not want to break it down in the field below. In achieving Slovenia's objectives in leading the European Union, however, we expect to use all the human resources available to us. We also, of course, support the comments and proposals to amend the law which would open up the functioning of the Committee on European Affairs to the public and thus close the meeting only on special occasions, except, of course, which we consider possible from the practice of functioning of this European Committee, because there was nothing that we should and should hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Homan has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, distinguished representatives of the government, fellow Member, fellow Members, and a nice welcome to all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be pleased to support the report or declaration, as the National Assembly, based at least once a year on the opening presentation by the President of the Government, which we heard about an hour ago, held a debate on the situation of the European Union and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in it and adopted a position on political orientations for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the coming period. This year's Government's contribution to the debate of the National Assembly on the state of the European Union and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in it and the guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union are 4 in a row. In addition to meeting the normative provisions, the Government wishes to adopt a clear and policy review of Slovenia in European matters, to inform the general public of the achievements and open issues faced by the European Union and Slovenia as a Member State, and to encourage a sufficiently early debate so as to be able to follow the Slovenian national interests as much as possible and to contribute to the common European objectives. The declaration presents the key policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia for operating in the institutions of the European Union. The proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union highlights key issues for Slovenia, such as preparing for the effective Presidency of the European Union, discussing the future of the Union, ensuring the full implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in its economic, social and environmental dimensions, strengthening the area of freedom, security and justice and enhancing the external role of the European Union in the area of security, development and economic relations. The review highlights areas: Union development, general economic framework and policy coordination, growth and jobs, sustainable development, research, knowledge, innovation, competitiveness, energy, transport, employment, social policy, health, consumers, gender equality, structural and cohesion policy, common agricultural policy, the environment, the area of freedom, security, rights and external relations. The main part of the 2006 report is the situation in the European Union and the review of the European Union's preparations for the Presidency of the European Union - we have already talked a lot about this today -; preparing for the euro, establishing the external borders of the European Union, implementing the Lisbon Strategy, auditing, the European Union's sustainable development strategy, preparing for the next financial perspective and efficient use of resources, supporting the next enlargement and approximation of the Western Balkans to the European Union and seeking to further strengthen the European Union in the global international community. The report covers all the key topics that are important for citizens of the European Union and Slovenia in it. These are, as I have already mentioned: preparations for the Presidency of the Union, the Lisbon Strategy - we believe that there is still much work to be done here, because we are only partially implementing it and there are still many open issues. It was mentioned because we support the signing of the Berlin Declaration, the increase in the external role in the area of security, development and economic relations, then the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, the enlargement of the European Union, the expansion of the Schengen area - today Slovenia is taking over the Schengen Information System, which is very commendable - and the general enlargement of the euro area; the general economic framework, which would in particular establish the quality of public finances, growth and jobs, sustainable development, research, external innovation. In short, I believe that any citizen can be found in this report. For me, it is one of the most important things because it is also enough for a wide-ranging field of energy, the area of transport, as it is both inland, maritime and air transport. Employment, social policy, health and consumers are key themes. Structural and cohesion policy is well represented, the common agricultural policy - here I would like to present in particular that Slovenia has also given in both agriculture and fisheries -; the environment, the eternally inconclusive theme, is written here enough about the protection of the seabed, the quality of air, climate conditions, biodiversity. The area of freedom, security and justice, asylum, migration, visa policy and borders, this is an area that I think will never be completed, but we must always be active, constantly ready for these challenges; the fight against terrorism, the exchange of data, then there are civil protection, external relations - mainly in external relations is sufficiently illustrated in the Western Balkans - European neighbourhood policy, Barcelona transfer, relations with Russia, Central Asia, transition relations, the Middle East. In short, I believe that the report is sufficiently comprehensive and globally designed, so that it is a good basis for this report to be upgraded only. I'd like to focus on an environment, an endlessly unfinished subject for me. Last week was an international day of water under the slogan "it would be nice if it were for all the people in the world, but it isn't". For me, there is one key topic here, especially Slovenia, which has one special feature, so far we still have enough clean drinking water. And I believe that this emphasis must be stressed every day. We're one of the few countries, I think a lot of oil shakes, a rich oil man, I don't know what to do to have the kind of gift that Slovenians have so we can shower every day with clean drinking water. This is a tribute that we must not waste, which we must be aware of, and we must also successfully promote and advertise in Europe. This heritage, which we have received from our grandfathers and great-grandfathers, must be preserved and this quantity of drinking water preserved and left for the next generations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I mentioned at the outset, we will be happy to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The last is Mr Kokalj, who will present the position of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u26	Hello, Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues, as well as audiences and viewers, if you are following us! The New Slovenia Group considers the prepared declaration to be an appropriate general starting point for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions for the following year and a half, although it is aware that the content itself is prepared for the so-called Trio Presidency programme following the new and simultaneously European Commission programmes, which is only proposed for this year's current year. It is therefore expected that the Government will come by supplementing the declaration or by giving a more precise explanation of the Presidency programme for the following half of the year to Parliament at the end of this year, but they could also try to make use of this for the adoption of the declaration for the following calendar year. Given that the declaration is based on the recording of the guidelines on the basis of the documents I have listed, it is not possible to draw from them what concrete starting points will be for the individual Council of the European Union, which, if they are dealt with, individual home committees and the two competent committees in Parliament, but we believe that it is necessary to improve the work in Parliament in this context even after our assessment in dealing with European matters. Above all, in this context, we call on the Government to slightly improve the updating of its content and to send them to the National Assembly so that they can be treated in a timely and more qualitative manner. While we are aware of the difficulties that are also due to the processing of these matters within the European institutions themselves, I must say that there are also intensive discussions with government representatives on this segment, as far as I know. However, as this time's content is also based on a report that has not been practically mentioned today, which is also crucial for this year's work and beyond, I must commend the report, particularly in the last part, where it is tabularly stated the state of legislative acts that are of particular importance to Parliament, in what state they are. Above all, it is important for our Group of Members that we know what we need to prepare ourselves for or which things are currently the hottest if I say so, and in which things we can get a little more detailed. I think a program like this is appropriate. But it might not be bad in the declaration itself for the future to approach in the same way - at least in matters that can be foreseen. New Slovenia will support the declaration. We believe that matters from a general, general point of view are duly submitted. Of course, it will actively participate in the consideration of individual legislative acts and also in the specific areas defined in the declaration itself. Here it is possible to mention only demographic policy or demographic change, where we also expect the government to draw up by the end of the year, based on a project initiated by the German Presidency in this segment, an alliance with the family, including Slovenia, an appropriate family policy in the context of the Tria Presidency in this area. Once again, the New Slovenia Group will support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a declaration is now under discussion. He was the first to apply for the debate, Mr Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is talking about the declaration and guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions, which are intended to play an important role in the beginning or in the first half of 2008. So 2008 in the first half, Slovenia will carry out all the duties of chairman. It is therefore extremely important how the Republic of Slovenia will enter this period and whether we will clearly define those priorities with which Slovenia could also leave the mark of this period. Slovenia must be aware that it is the first of the new members to be entrusted with this role. On the one hand, it is a great honor, on the other hand, a great responsibility. In the context of the chapter we are writing down in the introduction to the declaration, Slovenia will also be aware of the need to achieve real solutions for EU citizens in the light of the challenges facing the European Union. The substantive preparations for the Presidency - it will be necessary to take into account the forward developments and to make the latest decisions in the light of the priorities that Slovenia, the Slovenian Presidency, will have in mind for the EU, so this decision will be taken by the end of this year somehow. However, I think it is important that Slovenia should also be at this stage, because the Slovenian Parliament is considering a declaration and priorities within the framework of its action, today in the European Union and we will not meet with this document in the future. It is therefore important that we make clear the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia when we carry out the tasks of Presidency of the European Union. Therefore, allow me to touch on one important area, this is the area that is enshrined in the chapter Employment and Social Policy, Health and Consumers, and I will speak in particular about the sub-chapter of health. We have written in the context of the three-year programme - that is, the 18-month programme of the Presidency of Germany, Portugal and Slovenia - that in the field of health, in point 76, as regards health differences between Member States "will pay particular attention to the whole approach to the treatment of cancer in EU policies and activities, including the assessment of preventive checks on cancer". So this is already a common task for the presidents during this 18-month period, but we can also see that for Germany and Portugal it is written in a very defined form, which are those particular areas for which individual countries will pay particular attention. And here we can also see from Dr. Marusic's presentation, the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, that Germany will pay a great deal of attention during this period to activities that will focus mainly on HIV infection control, AIDS and migrant issues during the Portuguese Presidency. Mr Secretary continues that the Slovenian Presidency has chosen the area of cancer as its main theme. And given that there is no record of this priority in the sub-chapter of health, in the LDS Group we have tried to write an amendment in paragraph two which speaks of a new health strategy - and given that many debates will be devoted to a new health strategy in the European Union in 2007 to specifically record what has already been promised by the Minister and the Ministry as such. Also promised at an international conference last November, in Slovenia under the slogan "United against cancer" i.e. "United against cancer", that Slovenia will, of course, accept this obligation and pay special attention to this area. So it is a repeat of this commitment made by Minister Bručan at the 15th All-Slovenian Meeting of Women with Breast Cancer "New Spring of Life" in Cankarjev dom this Saturday, and I think it is important that in this area, namely, in the area of the development of new health strategies within the European Union, Slovenia, of course, leaves a mark within its Presidency and that, with the clearly written text in the framework of this declaration, it also gives real attention to this. Of course, from my point of view, it is difficult to understand the argument put forward by the Ministry of Health on the competent working body that such a record is too narrow. We are talking in particular about the inclusion in the text of the declaration itself of the area of cancer, such as that of the Republic of Slovenia, which will then be actually realized. We have a number of promises on the part of the Ministry of Health and the Minister himself so far, which have, unfortunately, remained only on paper and have been able to follow them in practice very little or very modestly. And if we do not have our health strategy or strategy and national healthcare programme, then the question arises how Slovenia will conduct an appropriate dialogue in 2007 when an intensive debate is held on the new health strategy in the whole of the European Union. And if we are saying that such a debate and the development of a new health strategy should contribute to ensuring a high level of health protection and cooperation in the field of health care, it is, of course, very important to note, within such a strategy, the significant differences that exist within Central and Eastern European countries in the availability of health services, the quality treatment of individual patients, and the area of cancer is certainly an area where differences are extremely large. In Slovenia, we have been following a very broad debate in recent times about the fact that, of course, we do not have a clearly recorded strategy in our political decision, that we do not have a national cancer control programme and that mortality is significantly greater in certain areas than in other Member States. And if, of course, we want to contribute to reducing the differences between Central and Eastern European countries compared to the other members, of course, if we want to contribute to the reduction in mortality in individual cancer cases, that is to say, because of the cancer problem, if we want to contribute to the reduction of the financial shares in the social gross product intended for health, it is extremely important in my view that we also write one priority in this area, within which we could seal this period of presidency. In my opinion, the area of cancer, which has also been exposed many times in Slovenia, is the area where we could share good practices with other Member States and that, during our Presidency, we could try to develop a new health strategy in this area, which will have the intention to reduce the differences between individual members of the European Union. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment and to reconsider or to write this clearly in the text of the declaration, not only do we always know what we can say in public, both by the Minister himself and the representatives of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let us also make clear the commitment and commitment that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must also take clearly at the level of the European Union at the time of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia and take substantial steps in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, nice day. April 2007 - June 2008 is the time actually covered by the document before us, because January, February and March are already over. But don't worry, I don't intend to speculate about the discrepancy between the title of the declaration and its actual range. For a quarter of a year, we have burned and, what is, there are still three quarters to begin the key concluding semester when we take over the wheel of the European Union. Thus, for nine months more to drink the theoretical and, above all, practical knowledge of this driving, which will be extremely difficult and will certainly attract attention not only to European partners, but also to the wider international public. In the test, the first of the novelties, best of many indicators of development and European compatibility, will be the only new member of the Union with a common currency, but also regrettably with what faults it reveals the origin that we like to keep secret and that does not calm. Energy, climate change, social security, intercultural dialogue under the Constitutional Treaty and the continuation of the enlargement of the European Union are formidable challenges. And when it comes to showing older, economically and politically important partners, not only candidates for entry, the path of further joint action into a better future, it would be very appropriate to shake off those little stains that we do not see ourselves or do not want to see when we look at the shirt, tie, dress that we put on before we leave home, which others have already noticed on the road and which they are warning us with all courtesy and all manner of tactics. These small packages are the problem of deleted and what we have recently started with one of the Roma families are other many weaknesses in the field of human rights, minority rights and respect for diversity, not least of all irregular relations, especially as regards the border with Croatia. And when we are more or less kindly alerted to all this, we should draw on certain knowledge and not act as if nothing is wrong or even to receive commendation. The border dispute with Croatia or Croatia is ballast with us, an unfriendly burden which the European Union does not want, especially if we bring it with us into the Presidency and when we enter the Schengen area. It is not the first time that we receive calls from Brussels for a more determined search for an agreement, even with the help of a third, if we fail in two. It is not the first time that the European Union's responsible suggest arbitration or a judicial path. Let us remember our visits a while ago to Ollie Rehn, Borela, Barroso, even before the rapporteur for Croatia Swoboda, Poettering, President of the European Parliament, spoke again today about this matter. The time of the presidency is approaching, there is no agreement, and there is no need for him to take action. The only thing to notice is waiting for something to happen, waiting for the other side's moves, maybe waiting for some kind of miracle. If Croatia has not yet submitted anything concrete, nothing tangible and useful in relation to arbitration, the resolution of the dispute, this has not excused us from doing anything in this direction. On the contrary, let us take the initiative and draw up an open proposal for an agreement that will allow negotiations to begin. It is not enough to tell the domestic and European public over and over again that we are not afraid of arbitration, that we do not believe in Croatia and that the problem is not objectively resolved until the start of the presidency. Let us show the European partners that we are active, diligent, proactive, of course with the European instrumentation. Personally, all of you, colleagues and colleagues who remember well, including gentlemen from the government, I have been calling for this for the past fourth year and I am already a bit fluid myself. But once we have learned that today we will have to convince Brussels that this is all Croatia's fault and that our conviction will be difficult and not always successful, we would be four years closer to a solution, certainly not in this tribulation that we are in. So three quarters of a year ahead of us, let's make the most of this time! With regard to the project of the Mediterranean University, which was discussed and also recorded in the declaration, let me say that, as a member of the delegation to the Euromediteransk Parliamentary Assembly and one of the initiators of the Slovenian candidacy in this project, I will allow myself to commend the government that, after the initial doubts and reservations to Slovenian placement and engagement in this project, it understood its importance and appointed an appropriate project group, which has already drawn up an appropriate proposal for the content and seat of this university and has already written an appropriate letter on the intention of the Piransk municipality. We are the only one, it is good to know, the only country in the Mediterranean that has undertaken these tasks, and given the agreement with the original competition, this is with Unimed, this is the association of Mediterranean universities, which brings together 74, with very good opportunities to get one of the headquarters of this institution and play one of the key roles in training a new generation of intellectuals, which will be more familiar with dialogue between Central European and Mediterranean cultures. This is what we all know about the resolution, not least the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the entire Middle East crisis, which is the crisis of all crises in the Islamic and Western world. And if you gentlemen of the government have learned that this would be wise, open your eyes to the border fog with your neighbor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, all present! The proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia on the institutions of the European Union in 2007 and by June 2008 is adopted on the week when 50 years have passed since the beginning of the European Union. And I must say that in this declaration we can see that Slovenia, although it only joins the third year of full membership in the European Union, has an extremely mature document on the table. This is a reflection of the good functioning and willingness and preparation of the government to participate as actively as possible in the functioning of the European Union and that the European Union can also produce the best possible results in favour of the faster development of Slovenia, the greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and the better international position, according to Slovenia. And all the activities in here and these proposals are directed in this direction. Of course, it gives a basic tone to this declaration and to these priorities of the future Presidency of Slovenia in the European Union. And in this regard, it is necessary to say that, at this point, it is necessary to argue in some way before the excessive expectations of the Slovenian Presidency. Part of all this is being a realist. Indeed, the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, warned against the excessive expectations of the German Presidency. Why? At the outset, Germany had an extraordinary initiative and also considered how to speed up the process of adopting the European Constitution, the European Constitution treaties, and not a wing of ambition. However, when we sat all the presidents of the Committees on Foreign Policy in Berlin last month, the German President of Parliament, the chairman of the Committee, the German Foreign Minister, in particular, was very real. A realistic analysis of what can happen, what can be done. That is why I am so fond of the fact that we are realistic about the results of the Slovenian Presidency. However, I strongly agree that it is necessary to reach a minimum of consensus within the political parties on the Slovenian Presidency, that this Presidency will not be stumbled or used exclusively for internal political purposes. I must say that I am somewhat concerned in this regard about the non-cooperation of the former Prime Minister and former Minister for European Affairs. In such an important debate as this, they are simply obstructing the matter. Indeed, there is a significant difference in the way our opposition politicians look or our view of positions in other countries, which have more of these parliamentary traditions and democracies. Our committee visited Slovakia last week. I must say that they have pointed out with pride how active the former Prime Minister is on their committee how active the former Minister for Foreign Affairs is in this committee. Our Prime Minister looks practically as if he is almost ashamed of his international activities and does not participate in the committee. Here's another one. I was in the delegation of Slovenia on the 50th anniversary of the Roman Treaty in Rome. The former Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi was also not honoured to sit there with current government policies and also to applaud the current Italian government coalition. I would like to suggest that these former ministers, who have now changed the party and are in the shows full of advice and ideas to become realists and to participate in a constructive way, because otherwise it can happen that this party will become even less constructive than it has been before. In this regard, colleague Gantar had previously applied for the opening of a European Committee meeting, i.e. to amend the law on cooperation between Parliament and the government. I agree with myself that this law is bad, that it is due to the uncritical takeover of the so-called Finnish model, but not because of the objective of the best possible operation, unfortunately, the then President and the then European Minister are aware of it and still cannot face the truth here before us today. But not now on the part of the then ministers, the then government, as in that the current government does not want something transparent, something good, something that is beneficial. The law is like that, and we know how difficult it is to change and adopt with the constitutional majority. Then I would also say this: in order for our Presidency to go as well as possible, and finally in order to draw as much out of the European Union, it is necessary to strengthen the cooperation of Parliament, the government and our Commissioner in the European Union. On a recent visit to the Committee on Foreign Policy in Great Britain, Mr Gebs stressed that their Commissioner Mendelson is every Friday in Parliament or through various departments, that he is not only a link between his department and British departments, but that he is in fact a representative of Great Britain in the European Commission also for all departments. And we have an excellent European Commissioner, and I can also welcome him, he has an important portfolio, but it is really necessary that Friday, which is intended for the Commissioners to work with national governments, will also strengthen this and improve in favour of us actually being extremely active in the current, what is being adopted in the European Union, where the places and opportunities of financial resources are and can then be made a success of Slovenia. About the expansion. This is, of course, one of the main priorities of the Slovenian Presidency and also during this period. I must say that Slovenia is performing in principle here, even in relation to Croatia. In doing so, there are sometimes misunderstandings among the local public, but I am sure that we are acting strategically correctly and in the long term. Of course, we sometimes witness or receive the cheering positions of some European politicians or of the European Parliament, who may still have special interests, that sometimes they are even more indiscreet about the position of the neighbouring country. However, I must say that in recent days, the diplomatic offensive of Slovenia has given birth, in my opinion, to fruits and that Croatia has had to react in some way in response to the diplomatic offensive, to confirm that it accepts the conditions of reciprocity. In doing so, it had to send an important message to Europe, which needs to be understood that it will not be able and will not insist on matters that are not in line with European standards in the long term. Last but not least, it seems important to me, here on the table, that Hannes Swoboda, who is preparing a document on Croatia's readiness and progress, said today that the existing agreements already in place, the agreements that have been prepared, regulated and upgraded. This is said, we are aware, that the European Union is not aware that an agreement has already been reached here with Croatia, that the negotiations have been concluded and that it is also necessary to build further on this basis. Perhaps he would touch my predecessor, who has really been representing his views for four years. But I don't know why he represents them in a way that looks a lot like he's in some way at work in another Parliament. It is clear that Slovenia has never defended arbitration. We are not defending arbitration, but if arbitration is to take place, it is necessary to arbitrate over the entire border and a colleague has for the last time given up the arbitration of the entire border and has taken up only some of the critical points and only the maritime border. This is, of course, an unacceptable position by the Slovenian side and I do not want to continue to represent such a position, because all the legal science where we have finally reached some consensus, the joint cooperation of all legal experts, that they are united on these matters. With regard to this document, I would also say that it is important, say, that I will only touch on two things: that Slovenia emphasises here - the European orientation after the modernisation of European universities as a prerequisite for the success of the Lisbon Strategy. I think it's very important for our university as well. It seems to me that our universities in their programmes must do much to keep them up to date, to actually educate graduates who will be able to develop new productions more than ever before, to have modern knowledge. This is a prerequisite for the success of the Lisbon strategy also on our soil, that is, greater competitiveness, greater activity and so on. And energy. Earlier, a colleague mentioned that the European Union is still paying the least attention to how energy sufficient energy will be achieved. I don't think that's gonna hold. The European Union summit in Brussels also made clear the demand for more renewable sources, after accelerating renewable energy production and which is also in line with the Slovenian orientation, but the European Union and all of us must be realistic. Energy needs to be provided easily and in every way possible, but of course it must be given priority to renewable resources that are less hazardous to the environment. In this context, nuclear energy is also urgently coming to the European table. We know that some countries have renewed the programmes, that France produces two-thirds of this energy from nuclear power plants and that this is an open topic within the EU. We must also face the Slovenian public that these debates are of course legitimate. So much for that. Once again, the Presidency is a major challenge, an opportunity, and let us be realistic. Let us carry out this presidency routinely, not having too many pretensions or too many appetites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u34	Yeah. I'd like to ask my colleague Jerovsk to be exact. He appointed a forerunner. The inaccuracies he makes on my account. Please, Jerovšek, even when we are going to visit around talking about that the Drnovšek-Račan agreement has been ratified in the National Assembly and there is no difference between ratification and parish. But even when he's talking about me defending arbitration only by the border sea, he should quote exactly when I said something like that. I said that this would certainly be a shorter path, but I allow and invite for four years in the same record, colleague Jerovšek, you will remember this, I am talking about arbitration on all points of dispute where there are disputes to be addressed. [[...]] And I defended this before Croatia started to talk about it, so that when I realized when the Drnovšek-Racan agreement failed, there was no other way. And it is sad today that the European Parliament is also adopting resolutions and conclusions that call on us to do so because we ourselves have not seen it in time. By asking, fellow Jerovšek, that you are right about these things, for always putting someone on the race, putting them on the treachery pillar is incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u35	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! The examination of the declaration on the functioning of Slovenia or the guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union is not the first one to be considered, nor can it be said that there is a significant difference in writing and in views from the previous one, but would point to only one small, pure technical flaw in the complementary proposal for a declaration to begin with. If someone wants to follow the pointer and look up the pages on which something is mentioned, he will not succeed because the text has changed. In addition, there is a difference between ethical and ethnic, when we talk about equal opportunities, this is on page 46, so that there will be no problems. However, in order not to remain in these minor proceedings in the text, allow me to explain what I mean by the fact that the text can be supported at the declaratory level, but then the problem is in individual implementation details. On the 56th page, the fisheries chapter states that Slovenia is committed to promoting the conservation and sustainable management of fisheries resources. A direction that can only be supported and applauded, but when it is decided in the European Parliament or elsewhere by individual documents that decide on the exploitation of fishing resources, on management, our position can be much less affirmative for us who are not fishing giants but follow the interests of fishing giants. And it is a question of whether those interests are in the interest of this principle, which is written here "...preservation and sustainable management of fisheries resources". That's the first thing I want to warn you about. Second. The President of the Government spoke about the large funds allocated by the European Union for assistance. He also said that certain funds were to be channelled to help non-European countries. And here I wonder whether Slovenia has completely ignored some continent, as it thinks about directing aid, because there is nothing to read about whether or not Africa is interested in anything. We now know that the interest of cooperation with Asia, we also know how it is with the interest of cooperation with America, with both Americas - north and south, but how it is with Africa is not, and we would not even be so careful about these things if the inhabitants or their representatives from this continent had warned me that they would ever expect a slightly more active role from Slovenia. Now, from these things, which are more foreign and external, to those which also concern this European space and Slovenia in particular. When it comes to structural and cohesion policy, on the 52nd page it can be read that there are 16 different operational programmes and I also read "Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources". I am linking this operational programme because it is also about cohesion policy with those who will become the main focus of my interest below, this is the development of equal opportunities or the promotion or gender equality programmes. I hope that in the context of these programmes - especially as regards gender equality in rural areas and the development of other gender equality programmes - for example, those concerning the population of older women, for example, if only one population or part of the population is affected. When I look at all that is written in the declaration or directions, I must say so, and about the resolution on the orientations of Slovenia, then I see some deviation from what was previously recorded as a priority, and it is slowly lost. Some things are continuous, but some appear in a constant way. For example, running Slovenia for the seats of individual institutions. From 2000 to 2004, Slovenia had quite a promising prospect of being established by the European Institute for Gender Equality. In the previous declaration, we made it very difficult for us to bring in an amendment that talked about Slovenia trying to get this seat. The hesitation has proved to be a confirmation of this government's not entirely serious direction, because its interest is to get Galileo's seat. But now I hope that we will not fall through, as we are at the Schengen border control seat, and the European Institute for Gender Equality, so that we will at least be successful here. But there's no guarantee that we'll be successful here. And I was taught that sometimes it's better to have a sparrow in your hand than a pigeon on the roof. But we put on pigeons. I hope they're not clay. At the European Institute for Gender Equality, however, I will start with the part of the reflection that is related exactly to what the Lisbon Strategy is talking about, and with Slovenia not even lagging behind in its achievements, but we can do so if we try too hard to follow the old Member States of the European Union to see what is seriously wrong. I do not imagine that from any particular ethical drive or special sense of justice we would discuss gender equality, but because of the effectiveness, competitiveness, human resources. These are the three things that make gender equality so important in the Lisbon strategy and which make economic growth and employment, as well as demographic changes, centralised and more important than previously talked about gender equality in Slovenia. If I only remember how we hesitated to adopt a law on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities between women and men, it was one of the last laws we adopted at the time of the approximation or adoption of the European acquis. Now we're taking some things up to date, but that's because, as we say, it's become a general orientation. And data: Slovenia is already achieving the European target of 60% of women's employment in 2010, we are already above 60%. 65%, which is supposed to be the target of 2025, is set in the same way as the extreme employment limit for women. But when we talk about women's employment, then I'd like to point out that it might happen that we're going to go back in some of the indicators. For example, when we talk so much about flexible work, when we talk so much about job flexibility, we know that women who are employed for shorter working hours in Slovenia are significantly less than in other European countries. At the same time, I associate this with data that the difference in the payment of women in Slovenia is lower than the difference in the payment of women, on average, in the European Union, 15:8 with us. And if we are to resort excessively to some of the problems involved in women’s employment, namely, the difficult compatibility of family and professional life, to regulate matters as it now shows, then we are not expected to do well, that is, the involvement of children in child care is not what the goal should be. 90% of the involvement of children I speak of Barcelona goals, at the age of three to six years when children are enrolled, is a goal we are not close to. But don't worry about it. In doing so, I am particularly concerned that we are preparing legislation at home that will reduce standards and standards for child protection. We know that the providers of education and education work are mainly women and what can happen is that we will have better educated women who, by the way, in an extraordinary study have been educated for university or university education, and now there is a proposal for secondary education. And only the profession will be able to do something if it is strong enough to resist those who are looking at child care only through economic indicators, if we have the most expensive child care in Slovenia. And I would like to point out that women who have invested a lot of energy in learning to get a college education will now be able to do less difficult jobs with college education. We are talking about how treatment of human resources should be directed towards opening up jobs that will require higher education. You can laugh, can't you, you can laugh at a lot of people, but the devil is in detail and the devil is in action. Another issue, which is also related to education and to the direction of the current government. Forcing entry policies in the natural direction, if I neglect the financing of public higher education institutions, I think of nature and technical studies, is one part of the problem. The second part of the problem is the desire to reduce enrolment opportunities for study courses, which are stereotyped women, sociology and humanities. I wonder if anyone feels bad and if this society doesn't need better educated people. Let us then, with other mechanisms, encourage interest in professions that are atypical to women, to say, again by stereotypes, even though the women they perform are proven to be successful performers of such professions. So it's a series of problems that I'm afraid we're dealing with at the wrong end. I'd like to draw your attention to another frantic fact, statistically. One of the priorities in this troika of the presidency will also be the feminisation of poverty. It is interesting that in Slovenia, where we have a higher percentage of female employees and 45% of the other active population are women, the risk of poverty for women is twice as high as for men. This only shows the professions in which women work and what it actually means in Slovenia if a sector starts to feminize - that it will automatically be paid worse in the next step. And these are things that we should think about and where measures should also have some more explicit, clearer, guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the EU institutions. Because some indicators are different in Slovenia. In Slovenia, the share of unemployed women is growing, the proportion of unemployed men is not as high, although I am aware that on average we have lower unemployment rates than in other European countries. However, it should be asked whether women's social protection and social inclusion are really targeted so that we can talk about whether any of the measures or any of the priorities of the Presidency will actually be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u37	Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. But I will begin with a greeting to those who are more than we are in the hall, that is, to young visitors and visitors, to viewers and viewers. Of course, my greetings also apply to the High Ministerial Assembly and to colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that Parliaments in Europe are losing power and influence, so it is all the more important that, in such kind of cooperation as the participation of Parliament and the government in EU matters, we mean more in particular with regard to declarations that show, or that guide us in the functioning of the EU. I would like to focus on three aspects: the general, and the two individual. It's general to write with a single sentence that my colleague, Ferry Horvat, has already said. Indeed, the declaration is a good one, but we must strive to ensure that there are no differences between the written and actual functioning of the Government. About the individual areas that I'd like to talk about, like this. First, the topic of education and research. Today's Slovenian initiative for the establishment of a Mediterranean university based in the Republic of Slovenia has been mentioned several times, and allow me to present it a little bit more in detail, because the thing is, we are all now: parliaments, governments and state administrations, to lobby and not miss this prestigious project and these opportunities. It is an idea within the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership or Barcelona Process, which began in 1995 and today includes 37 countries, 27 EU countries and 10 countries from the North Africa and the Middle East. In 2004, this partnership was given the Supreme Authority, which is called the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, which meets once a year, and operates on three committees: the Committee on Education, Culture, Economic Affairs and Political Affairs. Well, several times the Committee on Culture mentioned the idea that intercultural cooperation could also be promoted by some more organised form of cooperation between universities or even with a new institution, in the form of a university in the Mediterranean or the Euro-Mediterranean University, but the final designation is not yet known. Our delegation, composed of: colleague Vice-President Klavora, colleague Juri and my trifle, attended all the meetings and repeatedly mentioned that Slovenia would like to be involved in this project and, of course, may also offer a seat or hospitality. We have also proposed several times, with parliamentary initiatives, to the Government to do more intensive work on this project, but without success - by the fall of 2006, when the President of the Government commended, finally, his ears were cut off, this initiative was adopted, and in September 2006 the Government also set up a special project group, which was presented to the Government in December 2006. It has examined several options for what this project should look like and decided to establish a new institution under an international contract. Of course, it would be possible to reshape one of the existing universities, and it would also be possible to opt for some kind of network consultation. In this place, I would like to say publicly that the Rector of the University of Primorsk, Prof. Lucija Čok, has also participated in this project group, and that is why I do not understand some of our politicians, namely one Slovenian Member in the European Parliament and one Slovenian Member in the European Parliament, who publicly declared that the project of the University of the Mediterranean is a knife in the back of the University of Primorsk. Mrs Čokova participated intensively in this project group and did not have a single comment against the final report. Moreover, I think that such statements are a knife in the back of our country and national interests. The Mediterranean University is an opportunity for all of us and added value to all four universities, if of course it will be created in Slovenia. Following the adoption of our report, lobbying began intensively - both by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Higher Education, us parliamentarians and others. Let me mention just a few very important milestones: on 26 February, a meeting of the Committee on Culture, the previously mentioned assembly, in Rome, where it also represented our idea and there was a very interesting conversion, a similar initiative also presented by the Director-General of 'UNIMED' - 74 Mediterranean universities and it was decided to meet with the Director-General, Mr Rizzie, and to try to form a joint proposal for a meeting of the Assembly, which was recently held in Tunis in March. That worked. Professor Rizzi visited us on March 8th or 9th. We presented our initiative at the Tunisian Parliamentary Assembly, experienced a lot of political support and it was decided that this Assembly or its Bureau would appoint a special international working group, in which we will also have Slovenians of our own representative. And this group is expected to draw up a final report by the Cairo High Education Ministers meeting this June. So much for that. Of course, we will be happy to present the details on two parent committees or three, i.e. the Committee on European Affairs, foreign affairs and education, but I think it is appropriate to make such an important declaration, especially since there is also a president of the project group, the Secretary of State, Dr Lesjak, that we have also devoted a few minutes to this area. Another issue I would like to give her is, of course, traffic. Maybe just a word or two more about the declaration itself, still from the point of view of the University of the Mediterranean. Now it is probably clear to everyone that this is a state project, that it is not a project aimed at our university system, but rather an opportunity. But it is interesting that our initiative or that Slovenian efforts have only been included in the declaration on the basis of the amendment. I do not know whether it is negligence or neglect, but let us also look out for official views and official initiatives of the Slovenian Government when preparing such important documents. And I'd have another suggestion. This amendment, when adopted, was only included at the end of the third paragraph in the chapter "Increase the external role of the European Union in the field of security". I think I would also be included in the chapter on research, knowledge and innovation and, of course, also in the chapter on the Barcelona process. Because if we mention it three times, it's probably better than just once. That's a kind comment, I don't know what kind of criticism that is. Well, here's the thing about traffic. If I'm very specific and I point you to page 39, we have some general references here. Among these general statements, I miss an extremely important area in which one of the sub-group of the inter-ministerial project group is now dealing, namely, the use of biofuels in transport and, of course, the consequent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. I think that Slovenia can play an even bigger role here, something that the President of the Government has already said, and this would also suggest that this should be taken into account. With regard to land transport, I should mention the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rights and obligations of passengers in international rail transport, which, inter alia, brings something revolutionary, which has so far been known only in air transport. In fact, abolishing the right of carriers to limit their liability to the traveller. Which, in my ethical view, is completely acceptable, however, it should be borne in mind that this will also affect insurance, insurance premiums, insurance sums and also the amendment of our Law on Rail Transport Contracts. Regarding road transport, here I welcome the information on the Green Paper on urban transport, but at the same time I appeal to the Government or specifically to the Ministry of Transport to conduct talks with mayors of major cities on the use of taxis; at least for Ljubljana, I can say that the government is in virtually perfect chaos, that many operate, drive, in black, without adequate knowledge both in the field of urban regulation or streets and worse in the field of driving skills. But here we can catch the European wind and do something, so the Ministry of Transport hand in hand with individual mayors. With regard to maritime transport, I would like to draw particular attention to the Protocol to the Athens Convention governing the carriage of passengers by sea, which is not mentioned here, and which also entails a significant increase in the limits of liability. This has not yet come to an end. However, Slovenia, as is the case with some other conventions, should either study with the help of the Maritime Directorate or suggest that such international instruments should be ratified, perhaps sometimes in front of other European countries as well, or it should be a bit of a wait. My suggestion is that we do not wait to be able to react at times. In the field of air transport, the Montreal Convention, which first brought unlimited liability to air carriers, is now in force, this is very good. Let me tell you one thing, I hope I'm not teaching too much, but according to the Warsaw-Hare system, there's a $20,000 travel limit. So if you die in a plane crash, your family will get $20,000, which we all probably agree is the horror of how low human life can be. Well, the Montreal Convention no longer knows these limits. It will also be necessary to amend our Law on Bond and Real Law Relations in Aviation. Well, finally, the so-called horizontal stuff, I'm kind of joining my colleague Barovic here, who said, "...horizontally, I don't really understand what that means." It seems to be such a European expression. Well, what I miss here is, within the framework of a document called Freight Transport Logistics in Europe, the key to sustainable mobility. What does Slovenia really expect from the fifth corridor that runs across our country, even the tenth, but the fifth is more important and, of course, the old one again, the already so little used story of the second track. The second track must continue to be our country's priority. We know that attempts have been made, particularly by one neighbour, not to do so, even by the former European Commissioner for Transport. I think that's unacceptable. So much for now. I was still a little shorter than my old colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues! The Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union is indeed not the first time in this Parliament, in this mandate. For the first time, however, it is presented in such a way that it also has implications in the coming period, it is said in the next year, for the period when Slovenia will preside over the European Union. That is probably why this document is all the more important this time, and it seems to me that, after these discussions that we have heard here today, we are all aware of this. In particular, the work discussed by the Prime Minister of the Government when he proposed that Slovenian policy should be unified and act in a coordinated manner at this point. And from the debates that have been heard here today, I don't think that's going to be a problem. This matter seems important to me because I think that this Presidency could only be compared to the period when we have somehow worked in concert to join the European Union. And I think that there was a very high level of political consensus at the time, and I hope, or heartily, that this will be the case in this case. I cannot join my colleague Gantar here, who has already announced in advance as a fortune teller that the presidency will be successful, that everything will be reduced to some beautiful photographs and media reports. I don't think that's what this is about. I think it's a matter of substance. I think it's more than that, and nowhere is it ever gonna be. There are quite a few unknowns that will condition the success or failure of the Presidency, and it is probably up to all of us to make sure that this forecast, which he has predicted, really happens. Surely everything is not entirely up to us, just our country, to us who work here in this National Assembly and from the Government. I think that much depends also on the external circumstances on which we can, even during this period in which we are and in which we have already stepped, we also have an impact. The basic objective - progress towards achieving the common objectives or the basic movement of this document is good, but it is largely conditioned by progress in the most important document, in the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, which we know has been ratified by the first countries in this assembly, but we know that the 9 countries that have not done so and the key answer to the question of how and how they continue to hide themselves in this document and are probably the biggest traps here. However, I think that the efforts must be directed in this direction that we have heard about recently and everything else that is still in the declaration, I think should go in parallel with this primary objective. One area where Slovenia can certainly play an important role during this Presidency period is the enlargement process, particularly in the Western Balkan countries. We know that we have quite a bit of experience in this area. We know this place very well, and with the contacts we have in one way or another, we can have a significant impact on decisions in this work. I think that this matter is very important, not only because of stability, but also because of the economic implications and everything else that follows in this area. We accept the declaration in a favourable period. We are in a period that is good in all directions, however we look. And if we go to the street and ask people if they're gonna be honest, they're going to say most of the time that they don't live badly in Slovenia at this point. We know that we have the highest economic growth in the last 12 years, given that we have a relatively favourable picture in the area of unemployment and a very favourable picture in the field of controlling inflation. So, at three crucial moments, we have a happy set of circumstances. Of course, it can't put us to sleep. I think this is an opportunity to avoid the dangers that may follow in the years to come. Some of what has been said today is true. This wagon, which is called the European Union, has a kind of influence. Countries, on top of each other, have an impact and certain negative trends that would have occurred in any part could have negative implications for our country and vice versa, if you want. But I think it is right that we, as far as this is concerned, have a better self-image of ourselves and that we are not burdened with what is supposed to happen if we do not do something today. Especially is it not good for us to be burdened with what should happen in 2050 if we do not do something today. I don't think we need to take these burdens the way some of us want to put them on our shoulders. It is right that we are aware of them, every good master must be aware of the dangers, but I think that this situation, which we have at this moment, must be used to make it better and secure for us in the future, Slovenia has these potentials - both in economic terms and in human resources, as well as in all other resources, and I firmly believe that we will also achieve them through joint efforts. This part also includes one framework called the new financial perspective and where today there has been some warning about government services, particularly the Government's local policy service, that they are too slow to be able to prepare documents in a timely manner that will make it possible to draw up funds mainly for this year. As far as I'm concerned, it's not like that. I think things are running. It is normal, however, for the first period, for the period of the first year in this new perspective 2007-2013. And if we look back at how it was after May 1, 2004, we can see that at that time there was a substantial number of problems that were resolved only after the spring of 2005, when some operational measures were taken by the Government, which allowed us to make full use of the resources from the previous perspective that we can only draw on at the end of 2008, that is 100%. I think that even in this area, until 2013, there is no fear that Slovenia will not be able, given all the documents that have been adopted, to draw on the resources that will be available. Of course, it is a certain warning only to take seriously. This is necessary where, perhaps even at a level that is not only within our country's jurisdiction, things do not run as well as they should be warned. We are only part of this European Union, and it is our right and duty to communicate even when these things do not run in line with our expectations. One of the things I would like specifically to warn, which has important implications for our country, is the transitional period when we were granted a reduced value added tax rate on individual segments that we are running out of at the end of this year. You know that in the residential area we had this privilege or this rating that Slovenia can charge a lower VAT rate by the end of this year. I think that efforts should be made to focus on extending this period. I think that all the arguments are in favour of this, both in this and in other areas where this exception has been established that we are entitled to continue this period. Housing policy in our country is now only part of what I say is broader social policies and an adequate level of housing standards has not yet been achieved. For this reason, I believe that this is one of the areas that applies to this endeavour in the future, particularly this year, to give special attention and to choose a special status. Otherwise, I am pleased that today's debate is a little different than it was last year when we discussed the resolution last year, when we were under the impression of some fears about whether we will successfully negotiate for a new financial perspective or not. I also think that these discussions that we have heard today are telling us that somehow we have all come to realize that this is a project that we all have in common and that it is a matter of guidance, where it is right that this Slovenian policy is working in a uniform and uniform manner. And, above all, in this light, I think our presidency will also be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members, including the children on the balcony! So the longer this debate goes on, the less representatives of the government are here, but still I welcome them! As for the document before us, of course, anyone in this document would find a chapter that gives him some basic weight that seems important to him. I will also choose one of these and somehow compare it in the light of current developments in the Republic of Slovenia. This is because it seems to me that our citizens and citizens are more interested in individual solutions in the areas they are related to than what is enshrined in the Constitutional Treaty, because if you go to ask them this question, of course they will not know, they will not know much about what the Treaty of Amsterdam or the Treaty of Nice, Rome, or if any of them arise in Bled, as colleague Barovic suggested. It is more about issues related to everyday life’s problems. In this context, I would like to remind you of one segment, and I will touch on the areas of the common agricultural policy, because this is as much as I know. During this period when Slovenia will preside over the European Union, it is expected that, as stated in this declaration, the last of the reforms of the common agricultural policy, namely drastic changes in the wine market, will take place. Slovenia is a wine-growing country and this decision will come at the final stage of Slovenia's presidency of the European Union. I think we should actually start lobbying by now so that such a scenario does not end up in the same black version as the market order scenario for sugar. As a member of this Parliament, as well as others, I have repeatedly warned and let you know that today this black Tuesday, if I say so, began, for the area from which I come - workers who worked for 20 years at the Sugar Factory in Ormož have today begun to dismantle equipment, in a successful factory producing sugar. The equipment will be sold to Virovitica, the buildings will be purchased by another company, the owner will receive huge funds, and we will stay on the road with 200 people who have worked in the factory for 25 years, not to mention all those farmers who will not even clean up this industrial farm in autumn. In addition, let me say that this market reform in the sugar sector, which has been in the past period, has not had any effect. It is supposed to reduce 5 million tonnes of sugar in the European Union, the yield is currently such that a tenth of it, while a country such as Germany, France even increased its quotas. I am very sorry that the Slovenian government somehow did not follow what we asked for and that it was somehow allowed to run these matters by our own. It is true that farmers, at least their representatives, have also made decisions by the owner, and in this way this industry has been abandoned in the course of its own destiny. And Slovenia, I say again today, as I have said many times, is the only country in the European Union that has the conditions for sugar beet and for sugar production and will leave this production. It seems unacceptable to me, and today I will say very firmly here, if the same happens in the reform of the wine market, that wine-growing areas will shrink on those positions that are absolutely wine-growing, then all those and the government will be responsible for it. It is therefore necessary to work today to ensure that this wine reform does not end for Slovenia as the reform of the sugar market has ended. Here is one definition that Slovenia has adopted, but if we really want to maintain within the European Union, in Slovenia the social, environmental and rural image that is in place at this time, then we must do everything we can to protect our vineyards from the envisaged measures of the European Union and because we will be chairing the European Union, I imagine that we will be able to achieve this as the Presidency of the country even if we are to do everything we need to do at home and we are starting to lobby for such solutions that will mean that Slovenia will achieve its goal. However, as far as we are concerned with the sugar beet, where we have just said that Slovenia has no great influence, that it cannot influence that this game is being led and only by large, and if we agree to such a solution, then I fear that this story will be the same in this area. In addition, for us in northeastern Slovenia, the sad moment I will also touch on myself, which could also be one of the central points of our Presidency, which has begun now, during the presidency of Germany, this is a focus on the use of renewable energy sources, but also here, if we want to achieve any success, the Slovenian government will have to take decisions that certain countries in the European Union already know today, especially as regards excise duties on renewable energy. This decision must be taken by the Government as soon as possible. Because if it is accepted as soon as possible, there is still something that can be done to produce bioethanol in the context of the failure to produce sugar beet. However, as far as the ministries are concerned, as is happening at this time, this decision has been passed on to one another, I do not know, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible, they say that the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for this economic and environmental and financial ministry, etc., and then, of course, this story will not be given its final operationalisation. These are the things we Slovenians feel, or it will be very difficult for them to say over and over again that we have achieved economic growth, that we live in a stable area of the euro, that unemployment is shrinking, etc. So all of this is true, but we still have to add to it what social security really means. This is to keep those positive gains and those companies that are successful. And once again in this place, the Ormož Sugar Factory was a successful company, the Ormož Sugar Factory, unfortunately, had not had sufficient hearing from those who could have done this in a different way, especially in such a way that the owners who made the decision would have made such a regulatory condition that the owners would have decided that this production would continue, but not that it would be closed in such a way and in the manner from which they would get the maximum sum, and we in Slovenia would have no any solutions with the agricultural work as it now looks. I had to say this at this point because I am extremely concerned about all of this, and because many warnings, which I have also addressed as a member of the government coalition, have not come across fertile soil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In his presentation, the President of the Government, Mr Janša, said that the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2008 was not only a government project, but a project of national importance. He also said that in the coming days we would be discussing the commitment of all parliamentary parties, the agreement on cooperation during the preparation and during the Presidency, and that this work, I quote, "...will not be used to create any additional internal political tensions;" the end of the quote. We can agree with the President of the Government that this is indeed a major national project. After all, we will come back to the presidency only after 13 years. With this proposal, I should remind the Government and the National Assembly that last December the EU's Home Affairs Committee adopted a proposal from the Social Democrats to try to reach agreement between the Government and all parliamentary parties on cooperation during the preparation and during the EU Presidency itself. The good practice of successful countries, including small countries, in the EU Presidency shows that the leading political parties have provided not only peace but active cooperation on substantive and other important issues. Such cooperation requires the willingness of the Government not only to inform, but also to consult on important substantive issues of the Presidency, to involve a wider range of qualified and experienced people in the preparation and implementation of activities, irrespective of the political affiliation and willingness of opposition parties to constructive cooperation. This does not mean that we will remain silent in the opposition and will not point out any irregularities or mistakes by the government and individual ministries. However, it is highly likely that, during the EU Presidency, we will not propose, for example, a vote on the non-trust of the Government, as the strictest constitutional mechanism in overseeing the work of the coalition. The practice shows that the countries or their governments already have enough problems and are not, as a rule, rewarded in the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The declaration before us is even more important than the others we have adopted in recent years. It is a major challenge for Slovenia or an opportunity and poses a risk if something does not go as planned. It can make a major contribution to our common European house, to the European building. The European Union celebrates its 50th anniversary and with the Berlin Declaration we have looked at achievements in the past and commitments for the future. The European Union is becoming an important global partner, an important global player. It represents the area of stability and peace and is becoming an example to some other European countries. With the introduction of the euro and, above all, with the renewed Lisbon strategy, 12 million new jobs have been created, and this is attributable to the Lisbon Strategy for 7 million new jobs. Economic growth was precisely due to the Lisbon strategy of 2.7%, which is at least a percentage of the European averages so far. The Lisbon Strategy is a good starting point for competitiveness and innovation in the economy. For Slovenia, however, it is a challenge, as from 2008 to 2011, a new three-year period with new priority objectives will be set. As we know, the Lisbon Strategy concentrates on three years and, in conjunction with the annual reports, we review how we achieve the objectives of individual priorities. And during the Slovenian Presidency, it will be necessary to set new priorities or look at what has been achieved so far. Competitiveness and innovation are certainly based on good development programmes or education. And the Seventh Framework Development Programme must be a good basis for a good start-up for the European Union economy to continue, complement and enable us to achieve the same goals or the same results as the world's most successful economies. In the context of education or social security, the term flexibility - flexible security - has been established. And very well-educated people, well-educated labour is flexible when a business goes down, they can quickly shift to a new activity, and by quickly changing jobs to the needs of the market, they are also safe. I do not agree with a colleague who mentioned that in Slovenia there is currently a systematic campaign against enrollment in social sciences. That's right. The market will say its own. There's a shortage of naturalists. Naturalists and engineers of physics, engineering, electrical engineers are lacking, and there are too many sociologists. And one logical explanation is still, annually missing, in a very short period of time we have a generational drop of about 6,000 students, and so on - to students to students - due to reduced birth rates, from 23,000 newborns to 17,000 each year, and that is why demand for social sciences is lower. Even more flexibility would mean that it is known for a year, two, three, five ahead of time, or the situation or demand for professions is anticipated. Well, there will also be a major challenge, for us or in the declaration, the energy policy, namely, the reliability and security of the supply of electricity or all energy. And here we also have important tasks, because in Europe there is an increasing need for energy from 1.6% per year, we depend almost 50% on energy coming from crisis zones, this dependence, if nothing goes wrong, can increase to 70%, and all these energies are based on carbon, so they pose a threat to climate change through greenhouse gas emissions, carbon dioxide and its equivalent. Therefore, I certainly support the orientation of the European Union, which prescribes the mandatory use of up to 10% of biofuels by 2010, then the emphasis on renewable sources or even greater reserves is on energy efficiency. Here, individual countries in the European Union have done nothing or are too small and we have different stages of development. Energy is also closely linked to the environment and Stern's report, which for the first time financially assessed environmental impacts in relation to natural disasters, where it identifies the percentage of gross social product involved in the recovery of these unforeseeable accidents. Stern's report is just an impulse for a different environmental policy and certainly a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is one such task. It is only now that we are approaching the final anniversary when the results of the Kyoto Protocol, which, as we know, are not being taken into account by the major industrial states at all. We see that this commitment of the European Union has raised global attention and I have already seen responses in the United States, where, for the time being, at a declaration level, they support this European orientation, but, in particular, emissions trading and greenhouse gas reduction, and a joint European Union and the United States, or the animation of all other major countries in the world, to take climate change seriously or to deal with climate change, think that it is an important chapter or task for the future of the European Union. Biodiversity is also important in the environment. It is necessary to advocate biodiversity, to protect habitats, but not at all, as we had the opportunity yesterday to listen to the story about the protection of the brown bear. Everyone would protect him, only no one would take him into their inner circle. The only cooperation shown here was by France alone. I also certainly support the policy orientation on enlargement and the possibility of joining the Western Balkan countries. In this area, Slovenia has sufficient experience. Not so long ago it was a crisis hotspot, war, dead, displaced persons and so on. Now all the creations that have taken place in the territory of the former Yugoslavia or in South-Eastern Europe see some kind of bright perspective in the early accession of the European Union, not only because of their short-term economy, but also because of the implementation or application of the acquis of the European Union. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it is also important for the European Union's neighbourhood policy, which extends across the entire Mediterranean basin and to Zakavkazje, where, at important events, European flags are also outpouring - a blue flag with gold stars - more so as they want European peace, order, discipline and European values. With the next enlargement, the European Union is becoming increasingly multicultural. In doing so, the area of multicultural dialogue is certainly an important issue. And Slovenia already has a concrete initiative here on the establishment of a Mediterranean university, where Mediterranean culture would explore each other's contribution to a common European story. Finally, I would like to mention that I agree with the implementation of colleague Bogdan Barovic, who highlighted the not best position of the European Union Affairs Committee. Maybe the idea is because we're members of this committee, and we're members of other committees, so we can do a review of who's where first. And, say, if the environmental issue is on the programme, which is quite often, we are there with colleague Gantar, and so on. There are probably also areas where a member of the European Union Affairs Committee does not cover this and then representatives or presidents, or vice-presidents or experts of this Committee would be invited to the meetings. It would certainly be good if the meetings were open to the public, at least some. It is good that we have an annual thematic debate in this house, the response is great, especially in NGOs, in various initiatives to present their views and then there is a great opportunity for an exchange of views. Unfortunately, we also miss the presence of the European Members. At least two of us know that they are more home than in Brussels, so you have no excuse. Perhaps it would be good to invite one of them to present, because they are also working in the committees in Brussels, and to present what they are doing in their committee. And I think that the European Union Affairs Committee will be very burdened in the coming year, and that is why I would ask once again for as much support as possible in its functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! I will also talk to the audience, because today we have been instructed that we should also be addressing the audience, although I don't think that's really necessary. The Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union during the Presidency of Germany, Portugal and Slovenia has in fact harmonised or agreed on all those major political themes, tasks or problems of the European Union: constitutional contract, structure, Union budget, abolition of internal borders, enlargement of the euro area, single internal market, sustainability, stability and quality of public finances of members, sustainable and balanced development, competitiveness and innovation, new jobs, social security, knowledge society, information society, excellence in education and the like. Also topics that are already geographically close to us: the enlargement of the European Union or the accession of Croatia and Turkey, the approximation of the Western Balkans or South-Eastern Europe, relations with Russia, etc. As has been pointed out several times before, the problem of the European Union, in fact every country in particular, is in content. In what is most interesting, they are affected and have the most individual citizens. And here is some unity, the operationality of the European Union is questionable. It is that basic, in my opinion, the problem or the task of all of us to bring this European Union closer to the citizens; as it is well said that it is beyond the interests of individual national states, beyond the interests of individual currently ruling political elites or currently unruly political elites, and in spite of the interests of large, but always present in Europe. It is therefore difficult to establish certain pan-European systems, it is difficult to do so with European projects that would be effective, more competitive, faster established than, say, in the United States, Japan or, say, South Korea, that I do not speak in countries where there is less democracy, more dictatorship and some things can be even more effective and more quickly established. And it is these pan-European systems and projects of some common European infrastructure that we miss the most, and if we stop at internal borders, in the common market, in the common internal market. In this context, it is also the first task of the presidents to arrange these matters as quickly as possible. Personally, because I am involved in IT, it is beautifully written here on page 27, what is expected and wants to be settled, but the problem is that this is actually introduced into life, for example, that in Europe we will understand related documents or the same documents in which the data are the same, so that these data will mean the same in all Member States and that there will be no more internal borders. I sincerely hope that there will be no more special complications, which are more an excuse than complications, and that the Schengen borders will actually move to the external borders of the European Union and that we will no longer have to observe border crossings within Europe and subject some formal controls to the citizens of the Member States of the European Union. Even when you're traveling within Europe from one direction to another to get re-checked as if you've entered a pure foreign country. I also expect that, given that we all want the earliest possible entry of the countries of South-Eastern Europe, it will be Slovenia, which has a memory of the past, that it will try to achieve a truly very practical visa regime for the citizens of South-Eastern Europe, so that, as in the former Yugoslav common country, they can travel without major problems within the European Union. Here I hope that this will also be one of the operational issues to be dealt with by the Slovenian Presidency. I am also counting that Slovenia, as I have already said on the committees and our Ministry of Environment and Space, will finally, from the point of view of reducing, environmental burdens, say greenhouse gases and energy dependence, adopt a regulation on the protection of the night sky, because it is a very simple and simple matter and one wonders why in our country Slovenia so far we have not been able to adopt one really simple provision that would prohibit the lighting of the night sky in cases where it is not in the middle of security, protection or any other special reason. I also count that Slovenia, with its ambitions, will acquire either the Mediterranean University or the headquarters of the Global Satellite System Supervisory Centre of Galileo and also, in particular, in its country, introduce certain systems or launch such systems that it can also further, validly argue these candidates. With regard to the very attitude of the National Assembly towards the Government, however, I think that the Committee on European Union Affairs, as well as the foreign policy committee and, in fact, the Parliament, as such, must act with the Government, the Ministry of Partnership and Content, at all times, on individual matters that the Slovenian State is taking over and not merely formally insisting on a law that is just as it was adopted years ago. Here, if we have already followed the Finnish example, and let us also take a look at how they actually carry out quite a bit, I would say a formalist approach to Parliament's cooperation with the government in matters relating to European affairs. In this case, it is actually necessary to cooperate in a way that does not hunt hands, that does not complicate the situation of Slovenian negotiators, but that somehow the substantive things are coordinated and coordinated in a timely manner and thus achieve what is the purpose of cooperation, not merely formal validation or even sometimes some difficulty in this work, which is very time-consuming and so on. I want - this resolution as such is just paper - that the actual conduct of our government, other Presidencys and the whole of the European Union, because we know that we are caught in agreement within Europe, that we will be successful and that we will be able to bring Europe closer to the citizens and that they will accept it as our own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, distinguished few fellow Members, respected citizens and citizens! Above all, out of respect for the great men, the fathers of the European Union may be somewhat different from my introduction. Shortly after the end of the bloody war, which has deeply separated the nations, the statesmen Robert Schumann, de Gasperi and Konrad Adenauer, who are included among others in the fathers of today's European Union, laid the foundations for a bold political plan and rejoined European nations in peace and economic and political cooperation. One of the key developments in European integration was the Treaty of Rome, which on 25 March 1957 defined the essence of European integration policy for the last 50 years. On this occasion, I can say that I am somewhat disappointed that we have not been able to have enough power and attention to mark this 50th anniversary properly at the state level. Also to encourage a little more European spirit in us and in the younger generations. Schumann, de Gasperi and Adenauer, the great personalities of European history, met regularly. Together, they have taken great steps to create a common Europe, and thus mutual understanding, affection and, above all, deep respect have been born among them. These statesmen sought and drew inspiration from a deep faith and desire to realize a true brotherhood among the nations. Politics in our people's plays means something bad. What does the term politics mean and what does politics mean? Politics means work for the public good. Politicians mean work for their own interests on behalf of politics. Those who work almost exclusively for their own benefit usually use politics as a tool to achieve the greatest social impact and gain personal wealth. The European Union's fathers were politicians in the true and broadest sense of the word. They worked well for all of Europe. The restless nations were united into an economic union, where there was no room for contention, strife, and war. The European Union's fathers are most deserving that there has not been another outbreak on European soil. They have ensured economic and cultural progress despite the bloc's Cold War. Their lives were a work for the benefit of the European nations. It is a shame that we no longer have such European policies. Some current European politicians may lack the gift of wisdom and the gift of caution that has been so evident in the fathers of the European Union. All Europe should thank these men. Today, the National Assembly is considering an extremely important document, especially because of our presidency in the first half of 2008, which we must also use to make Slovenia definitively recognizable in Europe. There may be only one emphasis from this document. I am convinced that Europe urgently needs an effective European economic and social model. When designing a social model, it is about fighting between wishes and opportunities. Globalisation now dictates the possibility of a social model. Globalisation can be accepted by Europe as an opportunity, which means that it must learn how to manage globalisation. Managing globalisation means that European countries need to be able to adapt to the current world conditions. Europe must no longer dream of in particular the age of post-war security, sustained economic growth, full employment, positive demographic trends. Europe must face the current situation as soon as possible. Europe's population is ageing, the birth of children is under-represented, active labour is declining. If such a trend continues, it means the incoherence of any social model. A negative demographic trend is the biggest challenge Europe will have to face in a short time if it wants to preserve its culture while maintaining the social model that Europeans have known since the end of World War II. The only way to reverse demographic trends is to ensure a secure future for Europeans, most often reflected in financial security. However, as experience has shown, only financial security is not sufficient reason for larger families. Values that must be favoured by larger families are key. Europe can only provide financial security for its citizens through a well-functioning economic system that must be based on maximum employment. Competitiveness is a key point in creating a good economic system and competitiveness can only be built in areas where Europe is ahead of the rest of the world. Europe certainly cannot compete, for example, with Chinese mass production, but can compete with it in the field of demanding technological products. It is therefore crucial that the Member States of the European Union invest as much as possible in the training and lifelong learning of the labour force. I am confident and I expect that our guidelines, which we have written in such an important document in the declaration that we are considering today, will also fully implement these guidelines and, as it has been said, that Slovenia will also become a fully identifiable country in Europe and also in the world through the Presidency of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So, this declaration that we are receiving today - and I hope that we will also accept it - is accepted at a time when we are celebrating a 50-year-old event that is extremely important for Europe, but it is certainly important that we be able to accept the condition for this resolution that we are adopting today. Indeed, that was when the Coal and Steel Community was created as the smallest common possible denominator of interests at that time, an extremely bloc-widely divided Europe. And why, in fact, coal and steel? Coal as a symbol of the energy at the time, as the only or the most massive energy and steel, as the raw material that was at the time the most massive, most necessary, most necessary and also the most used. Of course, the goal of all of this was a better life and a better perspective for then after a war-torn Europe, but when development had already reached such a level, it was necessary to think about how, in the past, history should not be repeated. It's like, every couple of years, war or something. And if today, when we adopt this resolution, we remember those times and see what the situation is like today, we can see that we have much more in common than we might at first think. Indeed, Europe, as well as the world, but if we stay with Europe, today is facing the same problem, this is an energy problem. It is true that this is not coal today, and we are also facing a problem of goods or raw materials that today is not the only steel, but something else, which is completely understandable, because today we are at a different time, our development has reached a different level and we cannot use only one type of energy and not just one type of raw materials, but energy and goods and raw materials are scattered. The only bigger difference is that if everything was subordinated to this steel and steel 50 years ago, no matter what else, today this energy we need, and the goods we need to develop, must be in some kind of relationship with the environment, which was not there. Today we are talking about environmentally friendly energy and not only about energy, which should be environmentally friendly, but also about transporting this energy, which should be as environmentally friendly as possible. Therefore, it is not the case that at this time we are facing ideas - and not just ideas, I think that we are already longer - on the construction of large and long pipelines and pipelines from the East to the West and Slovenia is lucky here - whether this is a coincidence or a situation - that no matter which direction it comes from and where it comes from, Slovenia is always at the crossroads of these paths. This can be at first glance also burdensome for the environment, but if transport is as reliable as transport, and gas pipelines and pipelines allow this to certainly be more than transport by ships and railways and roads, this is good and positive. Certainly, one of these energy sources, of which we are talking a lot, is also nuclear energy, which has achieved such a level of development that it is significantly safer, as well as the processing of waste generated in production, not to mention the fact that Europe was already set by signing a specific agreement for that area where the first nuclear fusion reactor is to be developed. Here the European Union is the world leader in this area. On the other hand, it is important to say that taking over or caring for the environment is welcome, it is certainly an educational consequence of climate change - it is said to be a series of extraordinary phenomena, meteorological phenomena that we feel so much so - that environmental care is welcome. On the other hand, it must be made clear that opposition does not lead to anything. But priori against any solutions, against the construction of any energy facilities, perhaps especially those that are environmentally friendly - I would mention wind energy; such opposition to the construction of wind power plants, as is currently the case in Slovenia, is simply incomprehensible. That's, someone would say, that's idiotism. The most friendly energy and the greatest opposition! That's what you're saying. That's opposition to yourself. If, of course, there is political opposition back there, it is something else, but the final effect is exactly the same. I would like to point out that what Europe is committed to, which is also responsible for environmental concerns, let's say a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, which has recently been achieved, is of course a commendable move. But Europe, as a leader in this field of environmental care, has sometimes behaved a little bit in a humble way, I would say with a hint of hypocrisy. In fact, it is European multinationals who are moving their dirty industry to Africa, partly to Asia and Latin America, because developing countries are subject to certain special conditions or special aspects of greenhouse gas emissions. The environment is basically one thing. Many of the world’s currents are truly closed and only circulate in that local area, for example, China is such an example. However, in the long run, planetaryly speaking, we do not escape the consequences of such conduct. Environmental care must certainly be a permanent task for Slovenia, especially when Slovenia holds the Presidency of the European Union. It should also be stressed that Slovenia is on the right track as regards environmentally friendly energy. It has a relatively good energy ratio, in particular this is a favourable ratio in electricity production. We have one third of the electricity produced by hydropower, which is the purest source of production, the purest energy. But we also have a lot of untapped stocks of alternative resources. I've only mentioned wind energy before, by the way, as much as one smaller one, but if I focus on a bigger source where there's a lot of stock, that's biomass. Slovenia is more than 50% forest-covered, it is said that already the basic source of biomass is huge. It must be acknowledged, however, that there is no market in us and that other countries, especially the two neighbouring countries, Italy and Austria, will take away this biomass, which they can also trade in emissions trading, and we will draw here more briefly, so that this market will need to be regulated. On the other hand, it has to be acknowledged that in Slovenia there are incentives for the use of biomass for resorts, boilers and the like. This is said to be a lot of work in Slovenia and also in the European Union. There's a lot of open questions. As I have already said, this concern for the clean environment and the continuous development must be of some kind of continuity. Without this development, it won't be easy. Today, we have similar desires as our ancestors had 50 years ago when they signed the basic agreement, that is to say, the best possible life. However, we need to talk today about still acceptable climate impacts and an acceptable impact on the environment. The fact is that in this declaration we have to follow our wish, our expectation, and this is that Slovenia will be as recognizable in Europe as possible. Any opportunity for this visibility will have to be used, but at the same time an initiative will have to be given. And for that, there will be an opportunity for the presidency. Today it has already been mentioned, which I myself support, that it will certainly be welcome or absolutely necessary for some political consensus. It is our wish, however, that this declaration be more than just paper, that this would be some direction for Europeans, as well as Slovenians, to feel Europe and the European Union, as a national community, but for their own. And if this is achieved, then the purpose of this declaration will also be achieved. That is why I support such a declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Homan has the floor, but you have 33 seconds. You're giving up. Thank you. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u54	Good-bye, everybody! There was so much to say today that it was hard to add. However, given that several colleagues also referred to the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, let me explain that at the time the Treaty on European Economic Community and the Eurats was signed and the Treaty on Coal and Steel was signed in 1951. So the European Union has actually a longer beard than we can celebrate. But that's not essential right now. It seems essential to me that what has already been said today is that this declaration actually sums up the guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, so there are no more concrete proposals in it, although I think the guidelines themselves are good. What I would stress on behalf of New Slovenia, however, is that it will be necessary, irrespective of the content of the declaration, to strengthen the cooperation process between all institutions in Slovenia that are any part of the European institutions. Here I would mention cooperation between the government and the parliament, which is improving. I have to stress that. Given the exceptional amount of content that we are already considering and which we will still see from the declaration, as we can see from the presentation of the 2008 policy programme presented by the European Commission, this amount of content will be extremely large and complex in certain areas during the Presidency of Slovenia. And that's why we all have to be very good at this. And in this context, I call on the Government well-intentionedly to try to set up a procedure in this direction at this time so that the content that is then addressed by the working bodies of the National Assembly can be identified in a timely manner and also dealt with in a more qualitative manner than it has been so far. I would also like to stress here the role of those representatives of Slovenia that we see more often. These are the European Members. I have to say that I am very upset that they are not actually keeping contact with the national Parliament. I don't know what it's like to be in contact with the government. More national parliaments contact the European Commission, with the office of the European Parliament in Ljubljana than European Members themselves. Here I would also mention, in the context of the debate on resolving the border issue with Croatia, that I was, as - now speaking on behalf of myself, as President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, very surprised that one of the European Members had previously contacted the Croatian competent committee on the border issue between Slovenia and Croatia as well as its home committees in its national Parliament. I do not think that such a way is appropriate, is absolutely not appropriate and is not hygienic if we want to act with one voice out of the way as a country that connects all of us who are in any way involved in the affairs of the European Union, not at all when we are preparing for the Presidency. However, in the context of the presentation by the Foreign Minister of the Centre, whose names I do not know exactly now, for assistance, I think that the Western Balkans or Eastern Europe - in Apples, in short - would suggest that the Government consider joining this centre in addition to all the institutions involved, including Parliament. I believe that we are parliamentarians, I will say, the living tool that we really mean the link between voters and European institutions. In this sense, I do not think it is best that this segment is not involved, and I have already expressed it once before, but I am now also expressing it publicly as an initiative not as a criticism, because relatively many contacts and relatively broad contacts are connected through parliamentary ties, and perhaps sometimes it is easier to achieve something along this line. I would just like to stress this, and I believe that the role of national parliaments as well as of national labour bodies as the competent working bodies of our Parliament on the declaration is now adequately covered, and I also appreciate the positive fact that the Government has also accepted these amendments and assessed them positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The list of reported discussers is exhausted. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like a word on behalf of the motioner? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to conclude by saying a few words in view of the course of this debate, although I should also point out that this material has been dealt with in many of the home work bodies of this national assembly, there have also been large-scale debates with the amendments, so that this was in fact a more concise view of these issues today. Secondly, what has also been said in this document is the guidelines for specific matters, specific issues, the specific positions that the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia will represent in the Council will be re-examined in the home work bodies and in the Committee on European Affairs. And on this occasion, I would say that this beautifully illustrates the great role played by the National Assembly in the Republic of Slovenia in dealing with European matters. I think there are very few countries in the European Union where national parliaments play such a role. I think we can be satisfied with that. In fact, the government will also continue to seek to strengthen this role, including cooperation. The document currently under consideration is mainly a document on guidelines to serve as a basis for the formation of the national positions of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To a lesser extent, it is also the basis for the conduct of the Republic of Slovenia as the President of the European Union. There are two very different issues here, which I think should be highlighted. In the first instance, when representatives of the Government of the Council of the European Union represent the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, the role of the National Assembly, and in particular the Committee on European Union Affairs, is very clearly defined. But this is just one role, one function of government that doesn't change even in the first half of 2008. In addition, until then, in the first half of 2008, the government also served as the President of the EU Council. This function covers many activities which the Government, as a representative of the Member States alone, does not do. It will host the European Council, the highest political intergovernmental forum in the European Union. It will chair the meetings of the nine formations of the Council of the European Union and the multitudes of working groups and committees subordinated to these formations. It will represent the Council of the European Union in its relations with other EU institutions, with the European Parliament in the first place, as well as with the European Commission. It will represent the European Union and act on its behalf in international organisations and in relations with third countries. From here call on the Government to take into account this distinction between the two different roles that the Slovenian government will play in the first half of 2008 and the call for cooperation and support on the second function - this function, which will be one-off, temporary, the first six months of the following year. In this respect, the Government will draw up additional material towards the end of this year on the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, which we have already discussed today, and which will also be an opportunity to exchange views with the National Council on individual content. With regard to the individual issues raised in today's debate, allow me to focus mainly on those that I think are most important to the Presidency itself. I will also try to answer some other questions, as far as it is in my power. The Treaty of Constitution for Europe is an extremely important issue that will have a significant impact on the course of our Presidency. In this respect, the June European Council will be under the German Presidency, which is expected to draw up proposals for decisions on how to proceed. If the German Presidency succeeds in reaching a consensus, then there is a good chance that an intergovernmental conference will follow under the Portuguese Presidency, which does not necessarily have to be a long-term one, will be short, and in such a case it will be possible to reach a solution to the constitutional process early enough to be ratified by the parliaments of the Member States in due time to enter into force before the 2009 European elections. And this was the commitment mentioned at the end of the Berlin Declaration, which was adopted at the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome in Berlin before yesterday. This is an optimistic scenario, which was politically committed to by Heads of State and Government on Sunday. Let us hope that it will be realized, because this will also allow for a better presidency in our time. With regard to enlargement, both in the 18-month Presidency Programme and in the Declaration that was actually created on the basis of this programme, it is clear that Slovenia, in the field of enlargement, will advocate the continuation of accession negotiations - as you know, these currently take place with only two countries, Turkey and Croatia - and will also strive to maintain and strengthen the European perspective for the Western Balkan countries in line with the commitments made in Thessaloniki in 2003. However, it should be borne in mind that, at present, only Macedonia has candidate status, but it does not have a specific date for the start of negotiations. Slovenia will endeavour to set this date, but this depends, in particular, on the Macedonian side itself and on the progress of the reforms needed. With regard to Croatia, I would like to point out that, according to the Slovenian Government, Croatia's speed of progress on its way to membership of the European Union depends mainly or most on the speed of taking over the European order, European practice and European standards by Croatia. Bilateral issues that we have open with Croatia are another story, but allow me to point out, on this occasion, that it is very difficult to expect such a difficult issue as, say, the border issue to be resolved within nine months, as far as we are still separated from the presidency, so I am urged to do so before the start of the Slovenian Presidency, not seem to be the most realistic. As far as initiatives are concerned, I think we can say that the Slovenian side certainly was not passive in all these years, in many attempts to resolve this issue, and that the current situation is not a consequence of passiveness on our part - I think this is also clear. After all, what the European Parliament is supposed to say this afternoon is supposed to be arbitration, but only as a last resort or more precisely one of the last options, the European Parliament should have called for compliance with the agreements already reached and those, as you know, were few and some of them do not respect themselves, do not realize themselves, this is the first point. Secondly, the European Parliament will call for an examination of all options for a negotiated solution to the open issues. And only then, if everything falls into the water, offers both sides arbitration, considering arbitration as one option. This seemed important to me to explain that I would not remain in this room the impression that someone from the outside is asking us to go to arbitration. Africa. Africa is a very important issue and I am glad that it was open. Development assistance to Africa is one of the priorities of the European Union, the European Union, as you know, is the largest development aid donor in the world, and the largest proportion of this European development aid is falling away from Africa. It is true that Slovenia does not bilaterally allocate a lot of resources to Africa, but it is true that it indirectly allocates substantial resources through various mechanisms, various instruments that the European Union has. For example, let me mention just one, over the 10th European Development Fund, Slovenia will contribute around €40 million over the next six years, and most of the funds from this fund will also go to Africa for assistance. Maybe just for a little while about agency headquarters. The Agency shall be decided unanimously by the Member States on the establishment of the Agency. The practice is thus established for a given country's candidacy, there is a large majority of the support that the remaining countries also agree on this, whether they themselves run, but it is essential to have majority support and then try to reach consensus, a unanimous decision. In this respect, Slovenia assessed its possibilities for the head office of the Institute for Gender Equality, the Institute for Equal Opportunities and decided to leave Lithuania to do so. This may not be in line or it does not seem entirely in line with the old Slovenian proverb that a sparrow is better in hand than a pigeon on the roof, but the situation is such, the principle of the European Union is that, sooner or later, all Member States must have their headquarters from the agencies, in other words, we will certainly get a sparrow, and in the meantime we can try to catch this pigeon. And if we succeed, we'll be happy if we don't, we won't be able to tell ourselves we haven't even tried. There is still a possibility that the Western Balkans and the participation of national parliaments will be involved. I very much agree that there are still many untapped possibilities. The Centre for the European Future is only one of these options, and there are others, in particular the possibilities of direct cooperation. I visited Montenegro recently and was presented with the interest of the Montenegrin Parliament to establish direct cooperation, in particular in the field of European affairs. I have brought this interest, and I hope that there will also be a response on our side. I would, Mr Vice President, end this. Perhaps one of the other representatives would like to comment or repeat the answer to some of the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Someone else wants a word. No, no, no. You want procedural? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the chapters and amendments tabled, which I will guide on the basis of the reviews of the amendments tabled on 27.3.2007. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the sub-chapter of the Western Balkans, in Chapter External Relations. Anybody want a word? Check-in is on. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The amendment is very short and very clear and it is right that these parliamentary groups have also included Montenegro in the programme of Slovenian activities - helping Montenegro to harmonise active competence with the aim of achieving the European perspective as quickly as possible. At the same time, however, I would like to tell you that this shows how consistently we are working and thinking about all the countries in this area of the Western Balkans. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Time's up. Same for you, Mr. Friend. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. To sub-chapter Health in chapter Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumers I am putting the LDS Group's amendment to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Ljubo Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, this sub-section states in the second paragraph that Slovenia's priority will be to include in the debate on the new European Union health strategy during 2007. Here I would like to point out that Slovenia has no strategy in the field of health. From this point of view, of course, I think that this is a huge deficit in the debates on the new EU health strategy, because I wonder what this strategy will be, which the Government and then the Ministry of Health will also advocate within the institutions of the European Union. Since it has been promised many times that the strategy will be in public debate, we have not yet seen this happen. Given that many promises were made not only to the local public, but in the framework of the United Against Cancer Congress last year, which took place in Slovenia, Slovenia will place the cancer area among the priorities of its activities during the presidency. To this end, given that the declaration does not mention this under this sub-chapter, we have written an amendment to the LDS Club, which includes this topic in the framework of priorities, texting that Slovenia will support proposals leading to greater cooperation, exchange of experience and good practices, legal certainty and the right to quality services both in the field of health protection and in the field of health care. In this context, the Slovenian Presidency will therefore treat cancer as a priority and advocate the development of guidelines and a quality cancer control programme and a single treatment in the Member States. Today, we know that there are significant differences in the treatment of cancer between individual Member States. And I wonder whether it is not the task of the Slovenian State to offer, as part of the Presidency, areas of action as priorities for finding solutions to the wider European space and the intention of the European Union to set up such health policies to reduce the gap within the European Union. Here I would like to ask the proposer or representative of the Ministry of Health how it is possible to talk about what will be the priority of Germany, where it will address the issue of AIDS, how it is possible that Portugal's priority in this area, which is also recorded, will be the issue of migrants. And how can it be said today that the amendment we have written is too narrow? Because then I'm asked a question, but if nothing is written down, does that mean it's the widest thing there is? And if nothing is written down, it means that everything or nothing is going to happen! Of course, from this point of view and in view of what has been said about this area in Slovenia and what has been said and certainly also been given to me as a weight to the Presidency of Slovenia in the field of health, to treat the area of cancer as a priority, the commitment that I consider to be a priority in this text. However, I wonder whether we are not saying that government representatives, the Minister of Health, are avoiding this record, that, as is the case for two and a half years in this area, we will not get anything in this area, except for the promise of nothing in 2008, even so that nothing will happen in this area in 2008. Because the reality of life and dealing with these issues in Slovenia speaks in this direction: we do not have a national programme, we do not have a national cancer control programme, we have a lot of problems about how we deal with this topic in Slovenia at practical level and I wonder whether it is dissuading the willingness to include this text in the priorities that even during the Presidency of Slovenia will not focus this attention on what has already made a commitment at a number of levels, to a number of actors or ministers, or to representatives of ministries, or other representatives who have spoken about it. It seems to me that if we reject this amendment, it will be very uncomfortable for the Slovenian public as well. Because oncological patient associations, associations of oncology patients send petitions that the situation in Slovenia is not properly regulated. Do we hope today to say that only for a simple reason is it not appropriate to deal with this issue under this text of the amendment because it is too narrowly written? Again, I ask whether the text of the declaration, where absolutely nothing is mentioned, would suggest that Slovenia would keep its word at the time of the Presidency, which was given in order to give due attention to this area. I think that Parliament is also responsible for this. And I ask my fellow Members to write such an amendment in the text of the declaration, thus showing that the problem of the uneven treatment of cancer in the various Member States of the European Union is the area to which Slovenia pays great attention and that it will be able to bring its action here to more comprehensive solutions that would enable all citizens and citizens in the EU Member States to be treated as uniformly as possible and, of course, to the highest possible level of survival, which today is fundamentally different in the individual Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u61	Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. The amendments and the proposal for a declaration will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or no later than 20.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the return of deposits to the public telecommunications network. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Here you go, ma'am. Andrijana Starina Kosem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. On the basis of the provisions of the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, €12.3 million was signed with beneficiaries by 14 March. These written settlements shall constitute the legal enforcement address for the payment of refunds received by the Commission established in accordance with Article 5 of the Act. DSU - The consultancy company which is in the process of liquidation has carried out administrative tasks for this commission and it is therefore necessary, as a result of this winding-up decision, to transfer these tasks to the Slovenian Indemnity Society, and it was also taken that the legal provision for the recovery of investments through the budgetary fund is not appropriate for a macro-fiscal solution because the expenditure from balance sheet A and the revenue from balance sheet B. In short, the main solutions to the proposed law are as follows: The Slovenian Compensation Company will start to pay the amounts to beneficiaries as soon as the Republic of Slovenia transfers the shares to it, irrespective of the actual time when these shares will be sold, simplifies and accelerates the process of collecting the legitimate enforceable addresses, which is significantly more user-friendly, the obligation to send the settlement concluded to the collecting authority, is transferred from the beneficiary to the public defender under the new law, which makes the procedure easier for beneficiaries again, the Slovenian Compensation Company will be responsible for collecting the executing addresses, which will increase the effectiveness of the return on investments, as this company will also carry out all the actions related to the payment of these investments. The current legal solution for the recovery of investments from the Special Fund, which was a state budget account and would have been filled upon sale of the State share in Telekom, is therefore replaced by the decision to transfer to the Slovenian Compensation Society a certain state share in Telekom Slovenije, which serves as the basis for the recovery of investments and to cover all costs associated with these refunds. The new solution is more favourable both from the macro-fiscal point of view and from the point of view of accelerating this return process. The Slovenian compensation company will pay the amounts to the beneficiaries within two months of the receipt of the settlement concluded or following a court decision. However, a longer six-month period is foreseen for payment to beneficiaries already in possession of a signed settlement when the law is in force. These beneficiaries will already be around 8 to 9 000 at the time of adoption of the bill and it will take a little longer to process such a number of settlement. The supervision of the implementation of the law has been transferred to the Ministry responsible for electronic communications. So much for the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Franz Horvath, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 27th session, 15.3. The meetings were attended and also participated in the discussion by the representatives of the proposer, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the representative of the State Council and the representative of the association or the President of the Association of Beneficiaries for the return of investments in the telecommunications network. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the comments were taken into account in the amendments. The debate was also lively. It is summarized in the report, so I hope you will not mind that it is not reproduced here, but I am sure that those who have debated and are now present here will probably come forward in the debate. The amendments adopted were included in the amended bill and I propose that we adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u66	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues, I believe we must also say that we need to be told by the viewers and viewers of the parliamentary programme, that is how they teach us. Perhaps the purpose of the law we are amending today is not appropriate to debate again, especially in the light of the fact that marriage solutions are also supported by the expressed referendum will of citizens and citizens. However, in the LDS, we would like to reiterate our still valid principled opinion that it would be more rational for these funds to move to EUR 150 million, to co-finance the further development of telecommunications networks in our country's rural areas. Unfortunately, such a social agreement could not be reached years ago, so these funds will be spent in private. In this fact, we cannot ignore the assumption that optical network operators will not build and establish them in rural areas, but will be forced by economic legality to build only urban optical networks. Not only will optical connections not be available in rural areas for a long time, but, unfortunately, technologies from the XSL set are currently largely unattainable in these areas. As has already been said, the opportunity to do so is delayed and we are only dealing with the proposed law because the government wants to accelerate the return of money to beneficiaries who do not blame the government for delaying the privatisation of Telekom, from which it should provide the means to repay the beneficiaries. Otherwise, the latest developments surrounding the sale of Telekom's shares show that the government doesn't really know what to do with Telekom. These doubts do not exist in the association of beneficiaries to return investments to a public telecommunications network which clearly does not believe in the success of government intentions anymore and, therefore, through successful lobbying, has provided a more reliable source of funds. In doing so, she is assisted by some coalition parties who have to deliver on the promises made in the pre-election period. If we are not opposed to the basic purpose of the LDS bill, the key innovations brought by the bill that we are considering today raise a number of questions that we have already pointed out at the Committee on the Economy when it addressed the proposal for a second reading. This raises doubts as to the relevance of the transfer of 10% of the country's share of Telekom to the SOD. The transfer of 10% of the country's share is contrary to the decree adopted in the Sales Programme for State and Real Estate for 2007 and 2008 - by the way, in the LDS, we objected to this law or to this decree. The fact is that sales of Telekom Slovenije shares are included in the state budget for this year and next year. However, the transfer of 10% of the shareholding to the SOD means that a gap of around EUR 100 million will be created in the State budget, determined at the book value of the shares. However, since the market value of shares is 2.6 times higher than the book value, the state will transfer at least EUR 155 million of over-financial assets to the SOD. In our view, these funds will not only serve to pay the beneficiaries back their investments in telecommunications, but most likely also to cover some of the other obligations of the SOD. The transfer of 10% of the country's share to the SOD also means that the state will deteriorate its negotiating position in the privatisation of Telekom Slovenije and will therefore create a lower takeover premium and a lower withdrawal from Telekom's sale. Let us also stress our concern about the uncoordinated functioning of the government's representatives on the Committee on the Economy, which shows that the government has not fully answered and coordinated some of the issues raised in the consideration of the law. The State Secretary of the Ministry of the Economy says that 10% of the shares can be involved in the privatisation of Telekom, while the second representative of the Government of the same Ministry declares that 10% of the shares are intended for sale to Slovenian citizens. What's he holding now? Will this law violate the adoption of decisions on the sale of assets? Will we sell 10% of Telekom's share without a premium? This will lead to damage to state property again, according to our assessment. Despite all of this, we stress once again that we do not oppose the basic proposal of the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network in the LDS Club, but we express our doubts about the appropriateness of the amended law and we will take a decision of support after assessing the answers and explanations we will receive from the Government at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u68	Nicely greeted! Dear President! Nice greetings from your well-respected colleague and colleague! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network is experiencing its fourth revision today. In the New Slovenia Group, we hope to have the last. We trust the proposer that he has followed the intention to shorten the procedures that we are working for in the New Slovenia Group in all the laws that we are considering here in the National Assembly. This time the changes relate to the pooling of the collection of enforcement addresses and actions related to payments in one person, i.e. in the Slovenian Compensation Society. In Novi Slovenija, like all beneficiaries, we are eager to see real payments finally made. All executive addresses are expected to be around 24,000, and so far about a third of them have been processed. These 7,940 beneficiaries have collected all the evidence and rightly expect the payment to finally follow. It is probably pointless to state that it was the referendum will to reimburse investors. If we delay our return a little longer, they will be waiting for the return of their funds about as long as they once had to wait for telephone connections. Although Members of New Slovenia have already tabled several amendments in 2002 to extend the eligible costs and the set of documents needed to prove their investments, our efforts have only been made with amendments to the law last year, it is said that the amendment of the law prepared by this government has been made. With similar patience as beneficiaries of the return on investments, we also support the proposal for further amendments to the law in the New Slovenia Group, because we really do not want, not only do we want, but we also demand that real payments be made as soon as possible. If this can be achieved in the proposed way, i.e. by transferring Telekom shares to the SOD, then in New Slovenia we also support such a solution. Whether the share of shares transferred for these purposes is appropriate or not has shown time. Expert evaluations are very different. The actual value will be known when Telekom is sold. Since no one knows this date, in the New Slovenia Group we agree that the SOD from other own resources shall provide funds for the payment of claims during the transitional period. The New Slovenia Group will also support these changes, as will all other changes that allow for reduced payments to beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc, on behalf of the SLS Group, has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers! The Slovenian People's Party supports the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, as we are convinced that, on the basis of these amendments and additions, it is possible to speed up and finally implement the project on reimbursement to beneficiaries. This project must be implemented as soon as possible. Let us remember why it was necessary to adopt this law at all - because, at the time of the construction of the telecommunications network, undue and unfair payments were required for our citizens and citizens. And our mission and the task of the state is to put an end to this as soon as possible. It is unacceptable that no procedure has been implemented since 1997, when a special law was announced, which was finally adopted in 2001 and 2003. We are now in 2007. And worst of all, it is the areas of our country that were already on the verge of building a network on the edge of development and also today represent less developed areas of our country. On the basis of the changes envisaged this time, we estimate that payments to beneficiaries can be made within half a year. Amendments to the law oblige payments from the privatisation of Telekom. They allow the Slovenian compensation company to start payments immediately without tying itself to the sale of Telekom because liquidity is guaranteed from other funds. However, the settlement procedure shall also be simplified when it is concluded. Beneficiaries do not need additional interventions, but they must intervene with the State's Attorney's Office. What this law does not solve, and we are really worried about in the Slovenian People's Party, is the fact that practically half of the claims are still not processed. In fact, given that more than half of the applications have been processed, forget about the fact that it is only statistics. In fact, the vast majority of unprocessed representatives of the so-called group requests of local communities and municipalities, for which there are actually more than 100,000 individual direct beneficiaries. The requests of the local community or the municipality shall be kept statistically as one request. In addition, according to our information, the defence has given priority to individual claims and those which have been rejected. That's why the D.A. is waiting anyway. According to the law in force, following last year's amendments, two deadlines were laid down at the Office of Defence. Let us stress that they were not present at all before, which shows the seriousness of the previous ruling options or those that had a majority in decision-making. In particular, it has been established that by the end of September 2006, the defence has to process all applications and propose or reject them to the beneficiaries. By the end of November 2006, the defence had to process all requests which had already been rejected and those which had been resubmitted by the applicants. So both hands have expired. Yet more than half have no answer or settlement. Who cares if such a marriage is so broken and these marriages? What helps the definition or option of today’s amendments to pay the beneficiaries promptly if the defence does not succeed in taking decisions? Is the Government aware of the process of processing applications? Whether the Office requires additional funds or personnel - if necessary, they would then meet the legal requirements. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased to note that the government has accelerated its efforts to return investments to the public telecommunications network, and investors in the development of the Telekom Slovenije network need to get their funds back as soon as possible. The story of differences in pay for telephone connections, which are also five times different from the various parts of Slovenia, is the story of complete absence of hearing for even regional development. The majority were affected by people who already live on less favourable conditions, in rural areas, remote areas with under-average incomes, and in unenviable economic situations. The Slovenian People's Party has been very active throughout the public, political and professional debate on the return of inputs to the development of the telecommunications network. Already in the previous government, the SLS was the most active political party on this issue, and it was certainly a success that this law was adopted at all. At the time of implementation, however, some of the shortcomings in the legislation have been demonstrated, and according to the direction of the current government and the emphasis placed on it by the Slovenian People's Party, it is entirely expected that we will try to correct this as soon as possible and the proposed amendment of the law, we will certainly support the members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government, distinguished viewers. So what is before us today, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on return to the public telecommunications network, is a good action by the Government, but too late, that is a fact. Many of us were faced with the fact that if we wanted to have a telephone connection, we had to build public infrastructure ourselves, with our own resources, simply. Telekom inherited it in some way and marketed it all to this day; I don't know if this company would be lost. What would happen if these investors investing in this public network today also demanded interest? I wonder if the government would be so legal and moral and accept this request. When we owe the country, the state collects everything, the interest runs faster than the water from the tap. That's not the case. Of course, this law will accelerate the payment of those claims which are justified, but we find that two thirds of the claims are still pending. Procedures are too slow and this is not the only injustice Telekom is doing to users. I have warned the honourable President on this working body of my mother's rights, but I have previously pointed out that he does not want to talk about the procedural proposals that have been adopted, so it is my duty to tell you that my procedural proposal on this working body has been adopted. Indeed, we have corrected the injustices ahead, in the media law, for consumers, that, in fact, when we imposed on Telekom, he must install security systems on so-called analogue connections, but we have not removed the wrongs. We have 1625 applications that have already been turned into recoveries that Telekom wants to recover for accounts that users are not even responsible for. Interesting. Millions of recoverys come to homes from Asia, not to speak from other European countries, because it simply broke into the line, the user didn't even know, and today this is already the subject of judicial recovery. And those who don't pay, normally, are followed by a judicial recovery or payment after a meal, as it's called. I am pleased that in this case, the responsibility has passed to the SOD and that from the so-called company that has now taken care of this, it will all come under control of the Minister of Economy. But it was this minister who promised me at this aforementioned adoption of the law when we had it, the media law, that he would correct these injustices. But they're gone. We're back at Telecom's today. That's the connection, and that's why it makes sense to talk about it. We are obliged to repay or make credits to these people for that part of the cost or for that part of the accounts for which they are not responsible. It's a simple fact. And I would also like to point out that 35,000 applications, if we do not, in fact, speedily work on these 2/3 outstanding claims, so that, in fact, this time goes back to the future and we will say nice again for a decade. Today we hear that everyone would like to solve this as soon as possible. You had your chance! Why didn't you save it right after you actually gave it to Telekom?Oh, my God! It is a simple fact that in fact the costs of an individual investing in infrastructure have been known as they are now known. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support this amendment of this law and hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of a group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It has me that this phrase of the presentation of our position would begin with the words "Monty Payton" in English "new something completely different" - "and now it is a completely different story". My presentation will differ from the presentations before me, and there are many reasons why this presentation of our position will be slightly different. However, let it be clear to all at the outset that we do not oppose and accept in our Group the obligation of the State to return inputs and their contribution to the construction of the network to investors in the public telecommunications network. This decision was confirmed at the referendum and must be implemented. In a law that is being amended today, the State has promised to do so in part or in whole, however, by selling state shares in Telekom Slovenije in the so-called privatisation. The request for return of investments was one of the leading parties to the current coalition when there was an opposition, and therefore it must not be surprising that we received this bill at the table, which attempts to realize the promise before the sale of the state stake in Telekom Slovenije or before privatisation. Everything's fine and well, unless something unusual happens. At the time and weeks when we received this bill on the table, the government has also taken a decision on the partial privatisation programme of Telekom Slovenije, which is now full of newspapers, and according to its own statements intends to partially privatise Telekom even this year, and this is also evident from the budget documents. So why this law, because privatisation will be implemented, at least partially, and investors can be paid - finally! I agree with those who say this takes a long time, perhaps a proposal. So why does the transfer of 10% of Telekom Slovenije’s shares to the SOD even involve the SOD and why does the SOD have an obligation to start paying the approved refund applications immediately before the sale of the shares, this is very important? It is obvious that the government has decided that, regardless of the form of privatisation, whatever it may be, that the government wants a significant share of the shares, 10%, so to speak, to park in the 100%-controlled SOD, and will continue to be able to have a significant impact on the company around which it has been said, at least in recent years, something that the current coalition would say is customeristic. As the SOD will have to sell these shares if it wants to realize the payments of these deposits, this amount varies if we can say that a third of the requirements have been resolved now and if these requirements are for almost EUR 13 million, we could say that the total refund of EUR 50 million will be possible, some are talking about a higher number, we do not know, but let's say the value of the order of at least EUR 50 million or more. So these shares will have to be sold by the SOD and believe me that these shares will sooner or later land with investment companies and portfolio investors that will be appropriate and similar, you could say the current governing structure, as it has already happened, in other non-transparent privatisations, such as Work, Mercator. This transfer is particularly in the light of privatisation, of course, irrational, unnecessary and in terms of the privatisation of Telekom, harmful. Why? Because it reduces the volume of shares that would be sold in privatisation, it is clear that less than the share that you sell, less profit for it and less is the takeover premium or not at all. The budget of Slovenia will be damaged and all taxpayers will be harmed. I believe that the legitimate and legitimate expectations of investors are that in the privatisation of Telekom Slovenije, investments in the network are being recovered, used and misused for relatively unscrupulous and non-transparent transactions, and I hope that we will be able to overlook it and also prevent it. The parliamentary group itself, because it is a sensitive political issue, will vote in its conscience, of course I will be one of the few who will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your invitation to the floor and a nice greeting to all. And let me say at the very beginning of this brief presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group that we are proposing to support the bill. In fact, we support it because it is a kind of correction of the injustices that took place two decades and even a little longer ago, and it is probably time for those who are entitled to the reimbursement of these funds to be reimbursed. At the same time, we do not want to go back to whether the basic law, when adopted, was adopted with an appropriate concept or not, nor do these concerns that we are hearing today at the expense of the operational performance that is now being proposed convince us not to withdraw support for the law and thereby withdraw the beneficiary. In fact, it is about accelerating what we are obliged to do, and it is about, so we are assessing that we do not even follow some kind of arbitrary will to do the beneficiaries a great service, but it is more about not having any other choice. We are simply proud to do this, because life is running out for the DSU, and someone has to take over the business that DSU has led. Perhaps this is also one part of the answer to why actually the SOD. The consulting and management company no longer has much time to carry out this professional and administrative service, and the whole process that has been going on so far cannot simply go to waste. That is why we feel that the solution is appropriate, even because the SOD is better equipped, because - as the applicant argues - it is capable of lower costs, running and more effectively performing the tasks it will have to perform, and also because someone has to take over these archives and handle them professionally and properly. Whether the source of the payment is appropriate or not, several discussions have already been heard. We agree with the proposed resource, and we also agree that, as the government promises, this is, in fact, kind of neutral for the budget, so that the budget is not damaged. In fact, it is more of a liquidity bridge than the SOD claims it is capable of itself. In the DeSUS Group, we support the ambition to correct injustices, to correct some discrimination that has occurred in the past and which has occurred again at the expense of those who are more far away from the decision-making centre, from the economic and other power to correct the injustice in the more remote parts of our country. The treaties that were concluded at the time were treaties, but these were not voluntary contracts, so to speak, but they were treaties in which people were forced to communicate properly with the world at a time when the technological environment was different, and when this was actually the only appropriate fast relationship with the world. But the environment was also different in business, because the monopoly, which is now kind of falling apart, was so much stronger at the time, and therefore it is appropriate for those who were forced to sign the treaty under monopolistic circumstances to correct it also with partial, not total, reimbursement of funds - if we take into account when it was being invested and what the interest-free return is now. However, it is likely that municipal administrations will also be happy because they have had much to do with it in the past, as they do when it comes to returning or doing services related to agricultural damage or similar, and when they have to listen to many Greeks on their own account, even though they were not guilty. The DeSUS Group will support this proposed amendment law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the national community will be given by Mrs Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! There will be a smooth continuation of the management of all necessary tasks provided for by law. The future will also simplify the collection of legal enforcement titles and increase the effectiveness of the return on investments. So we support this. It simplifies and accelerates the process of collecting legitimate enforcement addresses, which is therefore more user-friendly. The obligation to send the settlement concluded to the collecting authority shall be transferred from the beneficiary to the public defender. The Slovenian compensation company will be responsible for collecting enforcement addresses, which will increase the effectiveness of the return on investments, as this company will also carry out all actions related to the payment of investments in the public telecommunications network. The Slovenian compensation company will also pay the amounts to the beneficiaries within two months of the adoption of a settlement or a court decision. The supervision of the implementation of the law has been brought to the Ministry responsible for electronic communications. So... I support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! This amendment to the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network of the Slovenian Democratic Party actually concludes the referendum chapter voted by citizens and citizens at the referendum. This amendment of the law will finally settle at least part of the injustice that has taken place under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy and the United List for the past ten years. As early as 1996, a law was drawn up to return investors, but of course with the power of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom, it did not go through the parliamentary procedure and did not go through the then Infrastructure Committee. The only fair thing would be to share part of the shares with those who built the telecommunications network and telecommunications at the time of Telekom’s ownership. These were mainly citizens and citizens who paid between 5 and 8 times more for telephone connections than some in urban settlements. The blame that has occurred to these citizens and citizens mainly in the countryside, i.e. on the periphery that has been pulled away from many, given those who can enjoy these goodness in urban settlements, has only increased over these ten years. Just for example: at the time, the stock was about €40; today, the stake of Telekom is about €400. This means that because of this, even though citizens and citizens will be returned to the so-called nominal value of the then German brand, now in euros, this refund will actually be lost to the value of the shares by almost factor 10. In short, whatever's going to be done, and the last moment is to do it, it's just going to be a partial correction of the injustice that's happened to them. To talk today about building optical networks in rural areas through these means is, of course, totally unrealistic and without all foundations. This share does not allow networks to be built in rural areas. However, it is the duty of the State to create approximately equal conditions for everyone in this country. And of course, I believe that the only government coalition in power today is capable of doing so in the next few years, because, of course, it is not foreign to coherent, even regional development. Of course, the problem is that consistent regional development is foreign to those who decide on quantity and development throughout the country. It is true to point out, I will say, perhaps even the state's defence, which, in accordance with the law we are amending today, but not at this point, should have made this settlement by November last year, but I believe that now the Ministry of Justice will do its utmost to speed this up and that these matters will be settled as soon as possible, and I believe that there will be a return somewhere, not only to the decisions, to the contracts of citizens and citizens - that is to say settlement - but also to pay these settlements by the end of this year. So today, by amending this law, actually by supplementing this law, we will do what we were obliged to do 11 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From the outset, the Group and the Party of Social Democrats have supported the demands of all those citizens and citizens, legal persons and municipalities who have invested in the construction of telephone infrastructure with payments to the former self-government interest community in this area. However, after a bad two-month period, it will take five years for the National Assembly to adopt the basic text of the law, with the exception of the three amendments adopted and the current fourth, to move the collection of recovery orders from Pontius to Pilate, state attorneys who are smothered by the verification of the eligibility of claims, and to draw up settlement contracts and still, there is not much to say about it. This proposal for amendments and addition assumes the responsibility of refusing compensation from the State budget to the Slovenian Compensation Society and thus, under the basic law, in the vast majority of cases of municipalities and their local communities as carriers of group claims. With the removal of the obligation to pay compensation from the budget fund to the compensation company, the manoeuvre is, in addition to the fact that, for an unknown period of time, the State has decided to sell the shares of Telekom to provide the necessary funds to pay all the compensations, while allowing the State to make a different form of refunding Telekom's shares, such as by replacing BH Telekom's shares, has in fact not accelerated the resolution of the real problem under the basic law. The resolution of the recovery requirements will not be faster; 10,000 investors will wait for their money, as it all seems, for years and years. So that we have a newer version of denationalisation and hide-and-seeks with Telekom's shares only show that the interests in the privatisation of Telekom are so strong that even the Ministry of Finance is willing to give up the principle of implementing the Public Finance Act. The Social Democrats' Group will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, with all other concerns regarding the transfer of the budget obligation to the investor in the Slovenian Compensation Society, in the hope that at least that part of the investors who already have signed legal decisions and settlement contracts will receive as soon as possible the money they have invested in the construction of the telecommunications network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there are no amendments to the amended law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the law on Thursday 29 March 2007 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - This is on the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for Resolution and Prestructuring of Economic Companies in Difficulties, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a representative of the Government or a representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, ma'am. Andrijana Starina Kosem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I will briefly outline these changes or the reasons for the addition. In the case of granting State aid to firms in difficulty and in the light of experience in practice, it has in fact proved to be the biggest problem with the different interpretations of the definition of undertakings in difficulty, in the calculation of capital adequacy and in cases where it has requested aid from a company which is part of a related company in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act. A significant innovation in the proposal for a new law relates to simplification and the reduction of the procedure for granting these State aid, particularly for SMEs. The new law also allows companies to receive in difficulty other forms of State aid that are compatible with European Union rules. In marriage, we define societies more precisely in difficulty. Article 1 of the amendment specifies how capital adequacy can be calculated in the case of capital companies; in the case of a company which is part of a related company, it may only be assisted if the problems of the related companies cannot be resolved by itself. The granting of State aid to related companies in the event that they are not eligible for State aid may result in distortion of competition in the internal market. Eliminating non-compliance within the law - Article 3 eliminates contradictions within the law itself. In the current law, the Articles on Capital Investment and Article 20, which defined State aid in the form of deferral, were deleted in respect of the payment of taxes and contributions. The procedure for granting State aid to small and medium-sized enterprises is Article 4, which lays down this procedure for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are, in principle, exempted from the necessary notification to the Commission of the European Union. The restructuring plan for small and medium-sized enterprises shall be approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in so far as the conditions laid down in the guidelines are satisfied, and approved by State aid. The procedure proposed in the amendment of the law is more rational as it also reduces the scope of the administrative work required and reduces the deadlines for granting State aid. Article 5 of the Law provides that firms in difficulty may also receive other forms of money aid, which has been addressed by the current problem, which has proved to be a major one. However, the calculation of the maximum possible amount of State aid shall take into account the communication of the various compatible aids from different schemes at local, regional and national level. Article 6 provides that the loan intended to restructure a company in difficulty is drawn up during the restructuring programme period, it is said that the duration of the State aid is usually up to six years, otherwise it is necessary to justify that the longer term is necessary to achieve these objectives under the restructuring programme. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State and co-worker from the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The report will be brief. You have him in front of you. The Committee considered the proposal of the law as the working body of the mother. Representatives of the proposer and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly were present. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the four coalition groups, the amendments were adopted and included in the amended bill. I suggest you pass the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following are the views of the groups of Members. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u88	Hello again. Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished viewers and viewers in front of television screens! In fact, this law involves minor changes with a view to making the law more operationally effective in implementing and adapting to European guidelines, which in certain cases allow for the compatibility of state aid for rescue and restructuring with other State aids in certain cases. This means that the new company law will simplify the procedure, which is also in line with the European Union guidelines. The proposed amendments relate to several areas, namely, the criteria for defining a society in difficulty, which do not change in this novel, but are written in a simple and unambiguous manner. The next area is the validation of the restructuring programmes, where it is unequivocally stated that the approval of the restructuring programmes and the granting of State aid to small and medium-sized enterprises is within the power of the Government and that large companies require the consent of the European Commission. The regulated area is also an instrument for granting state aid. This is what the changes are affecting related companies. The related companies are not already entitled to state aid under the current law and must prove that the related company alone and the whole is unable to solve or resolve problems - only in this case is the opposite. As was concluded on the labour force, we have obtained a list of recipients of state aid in 2006, and we see that the state aid received 16 individual companies totalling slightly more than €3.4 million. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you, too. Ambassador Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues, all present! The new law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty is adopted following a reduced procedure, as it has only a few minor changes. Nevertheless, the proposed changes are necessary and necessary. Some shortcomings have been identified in the implementation of the applicable law, and the amendment also adapts the regulation to some of the new guidelines of the European Union. The proposed law thus eliminates inconsistencies in the granting of state aid to enterprises required by the European Commission for large companies. Small and medium-sized enterprises need not be approved by the European Commission. However, the second amendment refers to a clearer definition of the concept of a company in difficulty, in particular in cases where it concerns related companies. The problem of related companies is complex and broad. Indeed, there are known cases where one of the related companies used one of the companies to display the loss and thus tried to play creditors and, of course, the country. In particular, it would be controversial for the State to provide additional funding or assistance to such a society in dealing with old problems. It is appropriate to provide that the condition for granting State aid to a company is also problematic that a related company as a whole is unable to resolve problems. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendment of the law. We expect that, under the amended law, together with a regulation setting out more precisely the criteria and forms of State aid, we will ensure that state aid is granted when it is necessary and also fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, when we talk about this law, we are talking about state aid to companies. That's why it's probably okay to mention what's indisputable and that's okay, though. It is a matter of societies whose fundamental motive is to achieve profit, and it is not possible to provide public benefit and public goods and so on. It is therefore essential that we pay more attention to the extent to which public funds are allocated for this purpose by economic societies. It is just that there are different economic cycles in the economy, even when companies are doing worse. And where there are difficulties where recovery is needed, where restructuring is necessary for other benefits and interests, the State enters. In order to keep the overall economic environment and growth in shape, however, in order to ensure social security in order to ensure social, inter alia, political interests, as the economy can only develop for the benefit of all when these circumstances are stable when they allow concentration on the basic activity, i.e. on economic activity. Therefore, the State of entry, but in order to enter through public funds, is probably also right that when funds are earmarked for assistance, they are indeed committed to following strictly regulated principles, to share resources in a manner that is indeed transparent, as we say, and that the effects would be predictable in advance - such that these aids are returned in the form of benefits also in the sense of ensuring public interests. We see that, according to the report, which was also written in the introduction, in Europe these funds are distributed in the largest economies, not in the smallest ones, and that this is slightly different for us, that we are not dealing with any specific enormous means to help economies, and that our strategic direction is not that these funds should possibly be increased. Therefore, the reasons for helping companies in countries are also reasons which are justified by public interest. But why this law now had to be reopened and put into debate, in additions and in changes, is another issue that we should say is actually a trivial one. What the introduction says is why we have to, what are the reasons for changing this law, which has not been changed so long ago, is inaccuracies, are things that the proponent calls itself contradiction, illogical, inconceivable. In short, it was really not an honor to be married at the time when we prepared and accepted it because there were so many banal mistakes within it that it was actually a bit embarrassing that we now have to correct it for these reasons. There is no particularly significant substantive reason or new reason in this law, unless we are referring to complementing different types of assistance. Everything else is, if we say something more slang, slempy. Nevertheless, we will support him in the parliamentary group, because of these mistakes, the weaknesses need to be addressed. However, it may be right to mention that other proposals for laws will be more delicate, more conscientiously prepared, that such corrections will no longer be necessary later. We will support the law in the parliamentary group. On the other hand, let me just mention that we are concerned somehow not to get into the habit or even into the genes that we need to ask Europe everything. To ask Europe now, the law says, even those things that really do not need to be asked. I am thinking of small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are still trying to do a little bit of collecting criticism in this area, or we have done that, and now we are trying to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Marika Possonec will give her position to the national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u94	The reason for adopting and supplementing the law on aid for the resolution and restructuring of companies in difficulty is to eliminate illogicality in the law, to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Community and to define the concept of a company in difficulty, so that it is understandable and will not allow different interpretations. In practice, the need for a more precise definition of granting State aid to firms in difficulty in the case of related companies has been demonstrated. The granting of State aid to related companies, if they are not eligible for State aid, may result in distortions of competition, thus preventing this proposal from being supplemented by law. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the legal basis for granting State aid will be created by aligning it with EU legislation, a company in difficulty will be identified - from a legal point of view and from an accounting point of view. The criteria or criteria for granting State aid will be complemented and the granting of State aid will be simplified. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Stana Pajk will present the position of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u96	Respectable viewers, viewers, colleagues, colleagues, government representatives. The current law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty was adopted in 2005. Since the adoption of the law, there have been shortcomings that need to be addressed for the benefit of those companies that need assistance. This eliminates and amends: illogicality in the accounting criteria for granting State aid to firms in difficulty. It is specified that the related companies may also apply for State aid if they prove that they are not fully capable of solving the problems themselves as a related company. State aid in the form of capital investments and deferral in the payment of taxes and contributions shall be abolished. State aid forms thus remain loans, subsidies, interest rate subsidies and guarantees, in accordance with Community guidelines on State aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in countries. The restructuring programmes of small and medium-sized companies no longer require the approval of the European Commission, but are sufficient to be confirmed by the Government. A provision is being amended which provided that no other State aid may be received by the company outside the restructuring programme during the preparation and implementation of the restructuring programme. It is proposed that such a company may receive aid which is in accordance with the guidelines. It also removes the inappropriate provision of the EU guidelines. There has been an interpretation that during the restructuring period the company has to pay off the long-term loan in full, which is illogical, as successful restructuring programmes last for small companies for two years and for large to five years. All this proposed law follows through its contents. The proposed law lays down rules that are simply transparent for the State and the applicant. We will support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ferri Horvat will give his position to the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group also support the adoption of the amendment of the law. We welcome the simplification of the procedures for granting aid, the more precise definitions, the definition of criteria and the elimination of the irregularity or shortcomings of the applicable law. I must say that I am particularly pleased that we are as united as we are with each other in a few laws, both the representatives of all the parliamentary groups together with the government. That's exactly why I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. In the parliamentary group, we took a closer look at the magnetograms of the discussions we had at the time we adopted this law. And it's interesting to read these magnetograms. I would like to suggest to some colleagues that, when we pointed out the shortcomings of the law at these very points, where we are now dealing with the amendment on a proposal from the government, some coalition colleagues have, above all, disputed with us that we must respect the criteria or recommendations of the European Union and so on. We objected that there was no need to be more papal than the pope himself and to translate or transpose the directives in the strongest forms; we see that even some were misunderstood or mistranslated. So because of the historical memory, not as an obvious but to draw from this lesson, I would like to point out and recommend that you actually take a look at some of these magnetograms. I was particularly happy and pleased with the statement made by the Secretary of State on the Committee on the Economy when she said [[.... ……]] : "Which means that for companies the existing law is more restrictive than the European Union guidelines allow." [[End of story.]] In order to avoid similar behaviour in the future, it would not be necessary to actually take a closer look at or take a closer look at the directives sometimes and pay more attention to the solutions that we are taking here. For after all this, not only does it make life worse, it makes business more difficult, it can also cause damage and prevent faster restructuring. Both the novelties of this law and the comments we hear from the economy seriously warn the Government and the National Assembly, all of us sitting here, that there is a need for greater attention and emphasis in legislation and in the budget as quickly as possible on the restructuring of the economy, particularly in endangered industries and in less developed areas. This can be done to save healthy cores, as long as they remain, to exploit the human resources we have, to preserve jobs and to contribute to more coherent regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss individual articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, the decision on the law will be made today in the framework of the voting point, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. And we're moving on to 7. Point - Defence proposal of the law amending the law on financial transactions of undertakings, and the third defence in the framework of the shorter procedure. We have two hours and 35 minutes of debate for this point. We are moving on to the third reading of the draft law, to the debate on articles and amendments or amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 26.3. As it is said, I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. The word has been given by Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I will try to say briefly that we support this amendment and the law itself, and we must be very careful that we do not experience anything like what happened to us in the 1999 law, when there was no particular controversy, and later there were catastrophic and fatal mistakes for a lot of people. We hope that there are no such twisted secrets in this law and in this amendment. We estimate that the amendment has been such that the Ministry has been sufficiently obedient and prepared for the many concerns expressed in the process of adopting this law, and in particular for those concerns which have benefited workers or workers who have lost their jobs and who have been entitled to it, which the Court has also recognised. It is good that the amendment is defended and, of course, by law, including the fundamental principle of corporate law. Of course, we are not convinced of what was stated in the process as an argument, that there will therefore perhaps now be more entrepreneurial initiatives, that there will be fewer risks, more businesses, fear of entrepreneurship, and more investment. This marriage and this amendment, of course, will not make a difference. Above all, we are pleased that the rights of workers have been defended and that it has been possible for those who do not yet have decisions to count on them to prove their entitlements and to be compensated, as far as their rights are concerned. It is disturbing to think that, however, there is some dilemma in the air, because everything that the Constitutional Court has written down has not been taken into account, so these concerns from their decision still exist, it has not been fully taken into account what the Legislative and Legal Service of this House has warned us about, and I think that it has also had legitimate concerns. The fact remains that many who could simply take advantage of what the law offers them will take advantage of it. Especially those single companies that were willing to do so, who knew what it was, but knew their obligations, now put debts on the burden of some others who would not be harmed. In particular, there are those who are more important creditors, greater creditors who will be able to bear the loss they have suffered, but their trust has certainly been shaken. We will support this amendment, we will also support the law. Some bitterness in the sense of disregarding all that has been pointed out by many legal professionals and also by the Constitutional Court will remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President. Unlike Mr Rezman and his LDS client, we will not support this amendment, not the law in its entirety. The reasons, of course, these fundamentals, have already been cited in the previous discussion, a preliminary discussion. The fact is, of course, we do not dispute the need to protect the shareholders or those who have come into a position to guarantee the remuneration of these creditors. However, we have focused on the rights of workers in this debate. By adopting such an amendment, of course, we are violating these workers' rights. We violate them in such a way as to limit them in payment to those last three salaries, as guaranteed by the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund Act. This is the fact that they have this right, this right is in itself possible and valid, and because of this we do not do some great service and some credit to ourselves for saying that we have protected them or that we have taken their needs into account, it simply does not. What happened to those who have the right under this Article to exercise this right within 90 days. It will happen that those of whom Mr Rezman has submitted that they are still open in their search for justice and in their claims do not have these legislative decisions, simply within 90 days of course they will not be able to submit this application, and are obviously, once the law enters into force in those 90 days, if they fail, out of the right to compensation. And that's what bothers me in this amendment, especially since, of course, the payment of three salaries is not enough. The fact is, the ruling coalition here, or, if you want, the minister and his professional associates, has been wrong about the content or writing this law. If she wanted to protect entrepreneurs, shareholders, investors, etc., she should also consider protecting workers. In this way, as we are protecting them now, of course, this is not enough. It is also interesting how this amendment and this article were, in fact, amended or amended. Let us recall that this basic amendment has been tabled by the SNS Parliamentary Group, which is talking about being paid in full to the burden of the guarantee fund. Later, the coalition found this to mean full pay, proposed some correction, which they also signed and proposed an amendment to be paid to the burden of the guarantee and maintenance fund. Here, too, it was still clear that it was possible to pay in full. Some may have read to pay only three wages. And when they found that this was still questionable and controversial, this amendment came, and it undeniably states that these funds are being paid under the terms of the guarantee and maintenance fund. For this reason, we believe that this is a fraud, that it is not to take into account the more likely social distress of those who have come to this position, that they have lost their jobs, but that it is to us who are so easily considering this legislation and changing and determining the fate of many of the employees or perhaps still unemployed. For this reason, I stress that we will not support this amendment, but clearly that we will not fully support the law as a result, because we believe that this amendment with the voting "machinery" of the coalition will be adopted, as has already been announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit. Please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Even as the authors of the basic amendment, because we wanted to really arrange something that would be good for workers in this country, I must say that I am going to oppose this third form of amendment, as we now have it on the table. The first form was perfectly fine, proposed by my distinguished fellow Member Srečko Friend on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. The second form, at least in my opinion and in my behaviour, was somehow aligned with both the government and government Members in order to do something good for the workers in this country. Today, however, we receive a splinter that does not regulate anything or regulates what is already arranged. It regulates what workers or those rights they already have. In the end, you added one beauty called the 90-day arm. Those of you who don't have a legal decision today, please tell me, with all the legal mills and judicial backlogs, how they'll get it in the 90s. It's just plain paint and sand in your eyes. I don't know who you wanted to be good and like, but unfortunately, even Members of this National Assembly aren't naive enough to support such nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it's a sort of, excuse me, "stiff" government. Why? Look, for the first time, we're talking about legal judgments handed down in courts that are valid. Workers have legal judgements in their hands. The last time I spoke to the minister, I was essentially attached by this entire National Assembly to this amendment. And we have written this amendment that the claims of workers who have ceased their employment relationship before the removal of the company submitted under the Financial Business Act, the Official Gazette, and this or that recognised by a legal decision, are being paid in full. What did you write in the amendment? Three last paychecks. Yeah, who, who, who are we stealing from here again? The weakest article, I'd say. A worker. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that we accept this in this National Assembly if we accept it at all. Who's to blame? Is it the worker's fault if the state wrongly erased the company? I'm not going to say that the ministry, or the government, did not actually do the right thing when it wiped out many companies. But not all of them. Some were also erased by injustice. Even if it's wrong. It has to be admitted. In euphoria. At that time, when the workers sought their own judicial protection in court and obtained legal judgments, the moment came when they could not, they had no one to recover it from. And it's about these workers, the workers with the jurisdictional judgment. And I think, if there is any wisdom, honesty, morality, in this temple of wisdom, then please heed this amendment, which has been voted by a large majority here. You can't stop what the court ordered and ruled. The lowest layer, this is for workers who already do not have the right granted by the Constitution. It's the right to work. This right is guaranteed by the Constitution and this right was taken from them by the State when it erased the companies. These are the facts. And this is what the court found: criminal deletions and claims left over from these addresses. I'm asking you to overlook this. Actually, it's not a big deal, and let's see that we're at least a little honest. We're not honest with patients, they're dying of long waiting lines, which is what I told you the last time. We are not fair to patients because we do not provide them with adequate health care, we are not fair to workers, so we have social problems. Let us be fair at least to those who have been set by the State with its own branch of power by the limits of the right that they had to pay out of their pocket in order to expel the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. To my word, I invite Ambassador Janez Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Recently, we have heard that some very good companies, promising companies, because they have the highest added value, move their premises and headquarters abroad. Where they could be employed. The most promising young generation goes elsewhere, remains something third-rate. Did we ask ourselves where the reasons were? The first reason is for sure a violation of the fundamental rules of corporate law. This was done by a previous law on the removal of businesses, with these provisions on the removal of the company. And now we are going back to a normal family that provides the basis for an economic fair business. Of course, this is not enough, there is much else to be done. Speaking of which, it's overwhelmingly crucial trust. Corporate law and, on the other hand, inappropriate labour market. On the one hand, the rigidity of the working relationship, on the other hand, is quite flexible, what I mentioned earlier in the questions I sent, student work, no lunch, no rest, no retirement, no cancellation deadlines, nothing. When are we going to reconcile this in some proper way so that it will be good for those who invest economically and for those who work? That's not guaranteed. This amendment amendment does not matter. I think there is something else in this article, which is my main point. In order to suspend legal decisions and, on this basis, certain damages are also caused to undertakings, to those who supplied goods, to some speculative individuals and to small entrepreneurs who purchased goods, and never paid for them. And this is huge in Slovenia. And they will actually slip through this provision. This is wrong and I would suggest to the government that it think about this, unfortunately, third reading. And secondly, with regard to the responsibility of individuals in the supervisory world and the responsibility of managers. This limit, the limitation of this responsibility, should be substantially raised. In doing so, that crucial reason to pursue speculative purposes would immediately fall away. This is also what is causing economic downturn on the market, and also, in fact, a disruption to the employment of workers. That's the stuff. And the third thing I wanted to do was come by, and I wanted to make a special point. When will we consistently respect this responsibility of oversight councils and managers? Tell me if any liability, compensation liability, compensation claims to supervisors in the supervisory councils and to managers has already been triggered. If this were to happen once, it would be fine. It's never been triggered. And when this starts, there will be protection of business, protection of buyers and workers. However, the basic purpose of the law is a good time and a time to do so, and unfortunately these two comments, which, I think, have been too hasty, should have thought about this and add this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you, too. However, the Minister shall be involved in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I do not want to repeat myself in view of the debate before the bad month when we talked about this law. When the government corrects some of the wrong decisions of previous suits, it is always difficult, because it is difficult to fix and come to zero in correction, this is said to be a baseline situation, because error has caused certain consequences. And the law that was adopted in the previous constitution was literally an attack on entrepreneurship. This is one totally abnormal solution that the previous suit has allowed and established the subsidiary responsibility of shareholders for mismanagement. This is a mix between management, control and owners. In the framework of corporate law, these functions are separate. The owners have nothing to do with the operation of the administration, they can interfere through their powers, through the supervisory boards, through the adoption of business policies, and not otherwise. And here to place the responsibility of owners, who, by the way, are also workers, including pensioners and also small and medium-sized enterprises, are therefore the owners of companies and are subsidiaryly responsible for the operation of someone who led the company to this extent, so that it later went to liquidation. Shareholders and creditors in particular have all the methods to enforce the responsibility of administrations for what they have done. It's also a cross-examination of the legal personality. It is said that if someone misused his position and damaged his creditors, is not responsible and can be sued by creditors, they can establish appropriate procedures. Of course, with this law, the government wanted to remedy this impossible situation and to establish a Financial Business Act comparable to European corporate law. We have also encountered this problem in the procedure, the problem of workers who have legal and enforceable judicial decisions regarding the recognition of certain claims. Once again, these workers have sued the owners and most of these actions are questionable because of the financial situation of those who have to pay. For this reason, the State or the Government has also supported and tabled an amendment by the coalition groups to pay their claims in accordance with and under the terms of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. Why? Why on condition, because that's the essence of this amendment that's on the table. In view of the fact that this is even possible to be paid out of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. Those who insist on the original amendment today insist on a solution that is legally enforceable. The Guarantee and Maintenance Fund shall not be able to pay funds beyond the rules of operation of this Fund. He can't. And if we want this standard to become operationalized in some way in life, it means that we need to change those laws. That's one thing. The other thing is that we put workers who have lost their working relationship because of the disappearance and bankruptcy. We want to establish an equivalent treatment of both. That is why we are proposing such an amendment. I therefore believe that this solution is optimal and also feasible, which means that people, those creditors, will also get part of what they are entitled to. But not to forget that those who have to pay have also been workers. Trustees are also workers and pensioners, not just so-called, I don't know, owners who wanted and abused certain positions. That's not what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go, please. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u112	In my opening remarks, I pointed out that there are still embarrassments. And even the last time we spoke, we talked about that there are no good solutions, that they are more or less bad, but that they can't stand the situation as it is. And I do not imagine that we have now found something that everyone could swear to and say that no one will ever be wronged again and that this solution is therefore as good as possible. But if we look back a little bit, then we can see that there were some dubs all the time. They're staying today, too, and I mentioned that earlier when I supported the amendment. But I see a solution here, or I'm reading a mistake. That's possible, too. If I find out I'm reading mistakes, I'll reconsider. But I read this so that those who claim to be beneficiaries within 90 days must apply, which does not mean that they must also prove their eligibility within 90 days. This entitlement, mentioned in the preceding sentence, refers to the need to be recognised by a judicial decision. I understand it as if you can run two processes at the same time. On the one hand, an application may also be lodged and a court case may be pending and the relevant decision may be issued in a longer or shorter period of time. If I understand correctly, then there are no possible secrets that I was talking about in the introductions when I first spoke about it today. Secondly, it is indeed a fact that some of the concerns that the Minister has already mentioned are indeed justified. Or is it right that we now have two types of workers who will have different entitlements, and both have lost their jobs. It's probably not for the best. Is it right to insist on what we have here before us? I went to look again, here we have 13 names and surnames written down. Is that all we can get? Is there anything else? Whether this law can ensure and by means of an amendment that other beneficiaries are still on their turn and that they will be paid. If that's not the case, then I'll admit, I'll say I've been seduced myself. But for now, I understand what I am explaining, and I also ask the Minister to either confirm or deny my thinking. However, I cannot say so informally, no one has come to me, but I unofficially know that at least part of the unions agree with or oppose this solution. At this point, we don't have any phone calls, any unofficial written material to protest. Probably because, after careful consideration, what they must have done, they realized that it might be what is still a real gain, but it is no longer to be expected. For these reasons, I have expressed my position or explained the position of the DeSUS Group, which tends to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. To the word of the Ambassador of Boštjan Zagorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. I must say, I am pleased that this time, government Members, you do not have to worry about trade unions protesting against anything. I think it's one of the few moments in this term and just take advantage of it. But the difference between the two amendments - between the one amendment that we have already adopted in the National Assembly with most of the votes, including yours, and the amendment that we have before us today - is mainly in the word. The amendment, which you have endorsed and proposed by the Slovenian National Party, provided that workers' claims to workers who had ceased their employment relationship before the company’s removal, when it comes to legal judgments, would be paid in full. Today, as a government coalition, you are proposing something else. So in two months, you figured out that something didn't add up. That you did something wrong two months ago, or that you just wanted to show your power that you accepted something so that you could propose something else today, and what you accepted two months ago, you simply forgot that you did it. And that what you confirmed at the time, you just confirmed a little joke so you can tell your muscles today. But with those muscles of yours, you've hurt quite a few people. And I'm just wondering, all those who advocate an amendment, especially from the government's parliamentary groups, what convinced you in two months, sorry, in one month, that you were in favour of doing it in full, paying off, today, and you're proposing something completely different. What were you wrong about a month ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u116	I want to answer that question. First time. The amendment of the Slovenian National Party was voted. Why was he? In view of the fact that both the Government and Members have clearly listened to the communication by the amendment of the Slovenian National Party that it is necessary to establish the same relationship with workers as with others who have suffered similar fates, for example, due to the loss of employment due to bankruptcy. The amendment was not formally enforceable. On the basis of an amendment such as, workers, unfortunately, the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund would not be able to obtain payment from them because this payment would be inconsistent with the rules and conditions governing the withdrawal of funds from this Fund. These are formal circumstances, and the four members of the group have therefore proposed to supplement this amendment, that the amendment is also enforceable. No one is injured here, these workers receive a recognised right and the state will settle it, while the creditors to whom they have legal and enforceable decisions would questionably pay it because they are questionable in their capacity to pay. That's the point. Workers get it, and I think they get it under the same conditions as others who have received similar fates. I think it's fair and correct and it was the fate of this amendment or your amendment and, of course, this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With all due respect to you, Mr. Secretary, I personally appreciate your work, and I must say it clearly and loudly. The government could either accept an amendment or propose an amendment that would not grant just three salaries. When you say that we voted on an impossible amendment, then you voted on such an amendment, or not you, but your Members. On the contrary, if a country can take any percentage of the interest on unpaid accounts from any citizen, then citizens also have the right to receive from the State on the basis of legal proceedings what is theirs. The second thing is: if a lawsuit is brought in the court, there will be, if the bill is not paid, also forced labour. Why wouldn't that apply to the country? We do, however, have legal judgments handed down in court for those workers who worked in societies before they were deleted - we speak for those workers. Why'd you cut her off? I believe that the workers have taken what you offer them rather than get nothing. I completely believe that, my colleague, but it doesn't excuse that you're going to interfere with their rights in this way and that you're going to deny them what they're doing by law. Look, asbestos law doesn't apply because the state doesn't want to provide money for implementation. My friend, I told you yesterday, I'm going to do it again today, he died on the operating table because he waited too long for heart surgery. The minister didn't answer for that. He died before his anesthesia, and I'm justifiably saying that, and I feel bad about it. Many people are treated in a stable, and the state is not responsible for this. We used to have a law on telecommunications, about return. The state exhibited, Telekom, a state company, exposing the unjustifiable accounts to 1,625 people. She stole them, and you don't want to write a credit card for these accounts, which they're totally nothing to blame for. I know it's not in that context, but I'm talking. What can a country really do all it wants? Can he really do everything he wants? These are the facts. I'm telling you this from my life because I'm among these little people. And that's what's happening. Please don't do any new wrongs. The unions are now silent, tomorrow will be no more, you won't be able to stop them, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you. Member Ferry Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! I propose that, as far as we can, we focus on the substance of the problem and that we do not go back to the discussion. We as a parliamentary group did not oppose the necessary novelties of the law. We have also conducted interviews as a parliamentary group in preparation for the consideration of the law before the committee and then at a meeting with all interested or affected parties, both with the civil initiative of shareholders and with representatives of both unions and also with the association of banks. As chairman of the Committee, I have actually made a great deal of efforts with the Minister to seek a compromise solution with those interested or affected in order to create as few new injustices as possible in order to prevent further damage to entrepreneurship and other negative consequences. What we find questionable or problematic right now is this last sentence in this amendment. If I have the right things in mind, the first version of the amendment was that there was no restriction under conditions. The legislative and legal service’s comment was then to put the beneficiary in an unequal position to benefit from the Guarantee Fund and the risk of conflicts and so on. Then it seemed logical for us to add "under the terms of the Guarantee Fund". Now it's this third version, and I'm asking if this last sentence is really necessary. The beneficiaries of this paragraph shall submit a request for the application of payment entitlements no later than the time limit. And now I am referring to what my colleague Rezman said, a very clear doctrine is 90 days after this law is enforced. I'm asking, doesn't that mean more sharpening? If this is an additional aggravation, the question whether it is necessary and justified and without it I think that an amendment could also be adopted and even then adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you very much. And Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will not stop at this amendment on the issue of missed decisions ever since. And I'm not gonna stop at the fact that there was an attack on entrepreneurship at the time. I firmly believe that the rule of law in this country still does not begin after the last elections. This 1999 law also had a basic objective well-targeted, as it is now needed. But he wasn't good enough. But we could say that we wanted to do something at the time that we wanted to attack speculative entrepreneurship, which also created the law of that time. We need to know that many of the owners that we have washed with this law today have already owned two, three and more companies, and these same people today are powerful owners of well-standing and business-excellent companies that have four floors in Ljubljana in locations where only the location represents even wealth. And these people today we have washed off every responsibility to those of our employees, where they have not paid any contributions and any other obligations under the Labour Relations Act, nor have they paid any wages. Many of them, because they knew what was going to happen, spent a long time paying some money out of the bag to keep them alive for a long time on their way to work. I know a lot of people who have helped them solve this cruel situation, which has been inhuman, lifeless, absurdly moralized. And these people, whom some of us then talked about, should take the legal path and receive the legal judgments of those who have been resolved, who have been recognised by the court as being entitled to recover from unpaid contributions and to any other outstanding obligations which go to them under the Labour Relations Act. Today, however, we have practically suspended this decision, a legal decision, and only three salaries from the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund are recognised by this law. Of course, the Minister says that the previous amendment was inconsistent with the nature of the law on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, but in this amendment, if we as a country were able to fulfil obligations, responsibilities, many who should not, we could also tell the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund that these funds are provided by the state budget. And we did everything with this amendment. In no way did we deny the provisions of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, but what we have done with this law when we suspended the legal decisions, we are obliged to provide these people with a livelihood fund to settle these decisions. Otherwise, marriage as such has a good purpose and is needed. If nothing else, it burdens those people who didn't even know they were partners. They didn't even know. They will know after they have appeared in the situation that they have such and such burdens from this title. So I do not have a co-ordinated state of magnitude representing these legal decisions in the amount of resources, but I am sure that we do not deny the rule of law that these funds should be provided to the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund from the State budget, irrespective of the issue of discrimination or non-discrimination in relation to those employees who are regularly, I think, on the basis of bankruptcy, they have come to justice from the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. However, the State as owner of this fund is still the one that still leads recovery to the taxpayer for payment or for unpaid liabilities to the employees after bankruptcy. This amendment is okay, but it should not read "and under conditions", but everything is right, the purpose of the law and the purpose of the law have been achieved. We solved the unjustified burdens of those who were not obliged to bear in accordance with the principle of ownership, but we satisfied those powerless people who had neither the money to survive nor the ability to end their working relationship, because they did not want to give them book owners or a negotiated solution, but they simply committed them from month to month with some "gelt" which they also paid from the bag to remain in some hope from month to month. And that to people who had two, three companies or majority owners in larger companies. That is why, of course, I cannot support this amendment, regardless of the fact that I support the intent of the law as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I also invite the Minister to your floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much. First of all, this law does not suspend the responsibility of those who have caused problems in companies, which is why they have come to an end. It's management, management is responsible. Unfortunately, the workers did not benefit or, I don't know, could not take advantage of the claims or the imposition of the liability of the management. Those entrepreneurs mentioned by the Member who have driven, who have more businesses and so on, should sue for responsibility, not the owners who are behind them. Some even have owners, they have borrowed a name, and in fact there is nothing to blame for the atrocities that may have occurred in connection with the management of businesses. So we really need to separate it, ownership, someone who owns it, and the one who took the company so far. Secondly, it is this amendment proposed by the four parliamentary groups that provides a legal correct solution. In fact, look, the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund was set up to ensure that those workers who, due to the calvary of companies such as bankruptcy, received at least something. Why, even when we established the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, we did not say that workers should get everything you want today. No, in fact, we give two forms of burial or the death of an enterprise to the same level - bankruptcy and extermination. And it is true that workers, in both cases, are entitled to equal pay. Therefore, let us be broad - minded toward those who have lost their employment in bankruptcy. Why are those entitled to only three wages? I think it is right and legally consistent that both are treated equally. That's one thing. Second thing, answer to Ambassador Horvath. Other articles of this Law shall cease all proceedings which are not legally binding and enforceable. And it is no longer possible to challenge something that is not already claimed until the law is enforced. Therefore, the 90-day deadline is to record by this deadline all claims under the jurisdiction of the legal and enforceable decisions and then to pay these decisions in accordance with and under the terms of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to reapply. Here you go. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll do my homework and say, "If you, my friend, have been killed or harmed, a cow has died, so have I." That's how to understand it. These workers, who have been forced to go to court in this indisputable situation, have, under the rule of law of this country, been given the right to do so. Their situation is different from that of a company that has now gone bankrupt and for a reduction or at least some solidarity reduction of the difficulties of these workers we have set up the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. But why do we not therefore recognize those beneficiaries who have this right under a court order? We have now come as a legislator, and last but not least, the National Assembly will be the one who has practically suspended the court's decision. We went through the courthouse. That doesn't seem right to me, and it doesn't seem fair to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u128	Now, of course, we all swear all the time that we all have good intentions. I'm sure that's what we think. The only question is what will really be the consequences. I have to say that I'm not so worried about the 13 people we have on the list of recorded people with names and names, now a little disadvantaged because they won't get everything, but only three salaries, just like the guarantee fund law stipulates. I'm more worried about that 90-day deadline. Although, of course, the dilemmas are also with these 13 and we want them all to do what is right. But the problem is, now we have 13 who would essentially be privileged, compared to all those who are beneficiaries of the Guarantee Fund from the second title, not after they have been deleted, but from another address that can be 10, 50, 100, 1000 - we are now deciding to move forward. And as we advocate for these 13s, we should then be for all those who are still potential. We can't be discriminated against here either. Why would 1,000 people or 5,000 people now, for example, promise bankruptcy if we discriminated against or deprived of certain other workers or workers in the future? That's one of the dilemmas. The second dilemma is these 90 days. When we don't know, at least that's how much I understand how many procedures that will be completed by then, which, apart from the 13 we now know, will still be justified. Will these 90 days be enough to make all these lawsuits that have already been filed, to say, complete, or will anyone else be able to file now? If not, this deadline is too short. Or if we can really explain this, because the interpretation of the law is also important that they have to file their claims on the maintenance fund within 90 days and file parallel actions before the courts and later prove by decisions that their claim was justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to point out that the National Assembly is not a court of law. You have no right to judge and judge what the court has decided. This is a matter of judicial judgment and the government must correct this injustice on the basis of what the court has established. That's all I can tell the Minister. The Court ruled on the basis of the Act on Working Relations. This material was central to the court when it assessed the rights of workers who raised their claims. And if the government has stood up, which will not be the first time, over the law, then let it. What can I do? I mean, there's nothing we can do here. However, I can promise you, and this is certainly true, that there will be new lawsuits, a respected minister, and it will be widely known, as today, that the state loses many trials, does not respect court decisions - I have asked the Minister of Justice why the State's defence does not respect the court's decisions in cases where the state loses the lawsuit and how much of the additional costs and interest the State must pay later because it has not respected the court's decisions. In this case, it will be. Will you be responsible for more costs than you would be today?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! It may have been true that when the law was passed, the intentions were good and they wanted to avoid the speculative purpose of entrepreneurs, but if we read the contents of those provisions, I am not quite sure that this was the case. And however we turn and want to face it or not, we are here today to sort things out in some way, because if we have read why this whole case was going on, then we cannot get past it, and the Constitutional Court has also reached this issue in 2002 with an appropriate interpretation of paragraph 4 of this article, where it has made a difference between active and inactive partners. And since you're already referring to different cases, these are huge on one side and on the other, and everything has to be taken into account with the same watt, with the same scale, everything has to be "weighted", everything. Is it appropriate, then, to delete the company under this law, for example, and to know the consequences of this deletion under this Article, since it was considered that the company then made a declaration to take responsibility for its own assets? In the case that the spouse inherited the company, he didn't even know what was in it. He took over this company, and the decision of inheritance was so written - this is a concrete example from the environment from which I come and very tragic, I must say. He had no idea what was in the back. He had no idea this had happened. And one day, he got this company erased from the court register. When this associate wanted to settle the matter, this heir could no longer do so, because the court considered that this reason had been given after this and this article of the former ZGD, by which he assumed all obligations. It is the associate who is retired and who will live for the rest of his life at two-thirds of his pension, taking away all his belongings, including the house in which he resides. Including the house he lived in. He turned to the congregation to give him an apartment. These are real cases, and this is also the case, see. It is said that one balance sheet must be found among all these parameters; surely, when it was adopted, no one thought so far, I am firmly convinced of it. However, what we are doing now and therefore support this amendment, we are solving matters in the only possible way, saying that we are putting all creditors in the same position. Even workers, if we're talking about them, are in the same position. No matter how such termination occurred. And that's the only right and only fair and only fair. And I have to tell you, in this case, this law is not even that busy. I think that in this case it is much more for those creditors who can use the law more than workers, that it is for banks, that it is for insurance companies and so on, for those who have been translated into these procedures and who have been able to protect these things and interests. So that I personally think that this is not a fundamental problem, and I think that this solution, which is, is talking about not creating any imbalances again, and with this amendment, I think that we are putting everything in the same position and we are solving it in the only appropriate and powerful way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you, too. And I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. The last time, 14 days ago, when we were preparing an amendment for the third hearing and failed to prepare it, the main dilemma was how to prepare this amendment to be in line with the needs, with requirements similar to those proposed by the Slovenian National Party and also compatible with the legislative and legal service which opposed the amendment. I think it is very important that the amendment is such that it is also legally acceptable and that there will be no stumbling block at the first step in the implementation of this law. It is important that these workers, who are undoubtedly injured if not paid, be equal to all those who in similar ways have lost their jobs. It is also personal for me - I will support this amendment because I do not see any other options at this time - it is also very important to me; article 1 of the law, which separates personal and entrepreneurial property. I think this is very important for the normal establishment and operation of companies in Slovenia. There was also a lot of evidence that a decision had been taken by the Constitutional Court, which proposed the division of shareholders into active and passive ones. Personally, such a proposal is problematic to me mainly from this point of view, because activity and passivity are defined only when the problem arises. I think that activities and passivity in some sense could also be acceptable provided that, when an associate enters a society, he knows and knows what kind of partner he is, whether active or passive, and that he knows whether or not he has acquired his personal property - that he has somehow become his personal property problematic. I will support the amendment, and I will support the marriage as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the sitting today in the framework of the votes, i.e. half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. And with that, I'm breaking this agenda. And we're moving on to 19. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will today address the following issues. First time. Identifying the termination of the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. And a second time. Disclosure of the termination of the office of President, Vice-President and member of the Staff of the National Assembly. As we say, we are moving first to point 1.a, this is the conclusion that the Vice-President of the National Assembly will cease to serve. On 19 March this year, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Mark Pavliha, resigned as a Member from the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Therefore, on the basis of the first paragraphs 20, 199 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: It is found that the Member of Dr Mark Pavlih served as Vice-President of the National Assembly as a member of the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, which was the largest opposition parliamentary group at the time of its appointment. Due to the termination of membership in the parliamentary group, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, Dr Mark Pavlihi, has ceased to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Second, the Ambassador shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. In doing so, I thank Dr Mark Pavlich for the work done so far by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, which concludes point 1.a. Comrade Pauli, outside the script, I ask you whether you want to speak or wait until the next day. We move on to point 2.a, namely the conclusion of the termination of the presidency, the Vice-President and the member of the working body of the National Assembly. Ambassadors and Members: Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler, Mrs Flower Zalokar Orazem, Mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Dr Pavel Gantar and Mr Davorin Terčon stepped out of the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. On the other hand, Mr Lahovnik terminated the status of an unrelated Member and, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 20, Article 199 and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: It is established that the Members, Mrs Darji Lavtizar Bebler and Mrs Tsvetki Zalokar Orazem and the Members of the Mags. Milan M. Cviklu, Dr. Paul Gantar and Mr. Davorin Terčon ceased to be a member of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. With a view to the termination of the membership of the LDS Group, Ms. Darji Lovtijar Bebler shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice; Mrs. Cvetki Zalokar I am acting as Vice-President of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Mag. Mr Milan M. Squill as Vice-President of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public, Dr Paul Gantar, as Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment and Space and Mr Davorin Terčon as President of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services and as a member of the Commission under the law on the prevention of corruption. And secondly: it is found that the Member of the Council of the European Union has ceased the status of an unrelated Member. In order to terminate the status of a non-connected Member, Dr Matthew Lahovnik shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and as a member of the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Thirdly: Members and Members shall cease their functions from the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. In doing so, I thank all Members and Members who have ceased their functions for their work so far within their working bodies. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5 p.m. and 50 minutes. Comrade Skull, I've interrupted the session before this and you'll get your word right before, [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] My colleague, I can't give it to you. I'll stop the session first. [[...]] Thank you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before voting, I ask you to check the operation of your voting devices, on the left side of the keyboard the signal orange light must be on fire. However, we continue with the 12th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration of Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period January 2007 to June 2008. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which we will have or have two amendments under the item. For the first time, the Western Balkans sub-chapter in the External Relations chapter. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, in favour of the amendment, 60 votes in favour, none in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the subsection Health in Chapter Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumers. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And we move on to the decision on the declaration. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not notified me of the failure to comply with the declaration as a result of the amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the declaration has been adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We move on to the adjourned 5th item of the agenda: notice, assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network will take place on Thursday, 29 March 2007, under the voting point. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending the company's financial regulation, the third reading under the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 4. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS k, formerly referred to as Article 4. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not have been harmonised due to the amendment adopted. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour and none in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with Mr Davorin Terčon's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Davorin Terčon's question on the establishment of a special working group to evaluate the work of the Slovenian Intelligence Security Service. We are moving on to an explanation of vote, please, if in the first phase you report to the person who will give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, please. We've got four applications. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. You're giving up. There's a Member of the House, Willy Trophynik, please. You also give up, and the Member Majda Shirca has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u137	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Mr Davorina Terchón's reply to the parliamentary question by the Prime Minister was not the answer. In short, the answer was that it wasn't an answer. He asked the President of the Government what was the purpose of the special working group set up by the Government in secret with a view to assessing the work of the Owl. The Prime Minister himself said that this was a secret decision to avoid politicisation. The question of what kind of politicization did not get an answer did not get an answer. Also, the specific question on which legal basis the Government has relied on this decision has not been answered and whether the members who make up this group have the right to look into classified information has not been answered. Mr Janez Janša answered in a way that he looked back and offered some answers that were far from our knowledge, but it was certainly a matter of avoiding, obviously a very delicate and delicate question, and so that the question that we asked remained in secret. In short, secrecy has become even more secret, and if you, my fellow Members, do not support this expanded debate on this answer yourself, it means that you will be encouraging yourself that secrecy is further turned into secrecy. I therefore ask you to support this proposal for a debate on the response of the Prime Minister, because this was not an answer for our understanding, but a focus on where it was not necessary and not a response to what was needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, then we can move on to a decision. We're voting. I'm sorry. There are 70 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Secondly, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitje Slavinc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Mitja Slavinc, on the question of military mobile hospital Role 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a proposal from the MEP. Boruta Saiovica to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Environment and the space of Mr Janez Podobnik to the question of mags. Boruta Saiovica on measures in the management of the brown bear. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The bears are shooting - a very interesting conclusion! And Mr. Podobnik is willing to shoot all the bears in Slovenia, as it appears, only to suit his brother, Marjan Podobnik. I think it is more important to keep bears in Slovenia than to reassure Mr Marjan Podobnik. I think that Europe has already overlooked what Slovenian bears mean for the entire European heritage in the animal world, but it certainly does not know what it means to keep Mr Marjan Sponik in good will. I think that what the Ministry of Environment and Space is doing when it intends to shoot off this number of bears is a crime: crime over nature, crime over ecology and crime over the environment, which we are very successful in bringing down in Slovenia. If we look at it, black constructions across the Bar are growing like mushrooms in the rain, and they haven't hit one yet! He has not yet given Mr Podobnik the fall in Barja, although this is in Natura 2000 and a protected area. Bears that don't hurt anyone, they'd be beaten. The man who went too close to the bear den with the cubs is himself guilty of going there. Every smart man doesn't squint at a wild beast defending his cubs around his nose. If someone's so stupid that it's an "asshole," they should simply bear the consequences. It's his fault. In Europe, such a person would not have received compensation, nor would he have received compensation from the insurance company. Because he deliberately triggered such a reaction. But with us we beat the bears: here, there, there, long and over. I think it's some kind of ordinary shit that Slovenia, as a young democratic country with the most diversified flora and favo in this small piece of European space, cannot afford.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much. And to the word I invite the Member of Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Of course, with the reply of Minister Janez Podobnik, I can be partly satisfied, he was completely correct and honest, but as has been said today: the bears are shooting. I don't have a problem with this myself, but when the finger is bent, the rifle must be the weight of some kind of justice. However, shooting at the mother of unfavourable cubs or, worse yet, that the offspring die of hunger after a few days, this is unacceptable without home, especially because we have not taken all measures to make such shootings and shootings significantly less. If we want to go to the head of the story, not the tail, then finally in Slovenia it is necessary to use additional scientific methods and find out what is about the exact number of these bears. The second measure is the re-establishment of farms, the recording of latrines close to settlements, and in such a case as this one, when more than half of the villages knew about it, of course, the establishment of a certain protection when bears become independent, and then once determined and energetic action, as is necessary. In Slovenia, however, in recent years we have recorded the shooting of many bears, which for the incidents in which the shooting is entirely justified and I agree with it, were nothing to blame when people, tourists who do not separate the bear from the bear, merely reported the location where a bear and intervention group were observed as in the Western in the summer and do their own. Of course, that's why soft bears fall, but the cubs remain. Such a shooting is not fair and is not fair, and it would sometimes be more fair to shoot the bears away from the hunters who are there than some intervention group that happens in the middle of the night and does so. That is why I have to say again, this is a problem that excites the Slovenian public, and the Minister is familiar with it, but it is so important that it is not because the answer would not be corrected, but because more attention should be given to this issue. I support further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you, too. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 27 Members and Members voted in favour, up to 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with Mr Dusan Kumra's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mr Iztok Jarc to Mr Dusan Kumr's question on the status of the Jablje Agricultural and Testing Centre. I'm opening a procedure to report an explanation of vote. Here you go. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. [[The ad in the hall.]] Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u143	I wasn't wrong. There is something to be said, however, because there weren't so many of you in the hall yesterday. In the light of the answer given by the Minister to the question raised, although I take into account that he has barely taken up his post and that you are more responsible for this reply, the former Minister and former Minister Booth. Nevertheless, I must point out that in addition to procedural violations and the stepmother's attitude towards the management of the institution - it is the Jablje office, for those who were not in the hall - other problems have also arisen. Among them will be the government's decision taken before last year 2005, when Jablje declared a new protocol facility, under the pretext of, of course, the Presidency of the European Union. So the government has decided to ignore the basic purpose of the Apples, which was defined in 2000, such as research, development and education for the purposes of agriculture. In this way, the government has definitively prevented the Apples from becoming the leading international agricultural education and experimental centre in the South-Eastern Europe area, a vision for the development of the Apples. And it's not just that. It is also about the fact that Minister of Higher Education Zupan has spoken many times in this Chamber in the last year and stresses that admission to social schools should be reduced and increased in schools of science. At the moment, this is an object that is currently in the hands of the foreign ministry, but there are two privately privileged colleges in elite halls. So we have another example when these highlights turn into contradictions. So, once again: it is a large amount of funds that have been invested by the agricultural sector in rebuilding this castle and this property, and today they are performing a completely different function and will continue to do so in the future. If I express myself more vividly, the floor in this castle will be intended for political elites to grind their heels in the future, instead of being dedicated to young people for education, learning and, of course, training and research. I therefore suggest that you support this proposal and that we speak seriously about it in this national assembly. Finally, European funds have also been invested at home for this purpose, and today they will serve a second purpose, which we are also violating European legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Within the framework of the Group of Peoples of the People's Communities, both Members have been notified on behalf of the Group. Are you giving up Mrs. Possonec? And since I can see that the desire for explanations of vote is still present, I am opening the procedure. Here you go, please. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Chairman. The initiative of a respected fellow Member in any way I support, because the message we give from this city concerning Slovenian agriculture is very clear, instructive and transparent. Well, you only grow into barns and fields and manure and gentlemen into neat tax-paying objects.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you. The word has a representative of Vas Klavor, please. The word is Tomaž Štebe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I had to stop by as a friend of the problem. Both colleagues, of course, have made this very trivial. Here the agricultural sphere in all the years of independent Slovenia has tried to transform the Jablje Agricultural and Testing Centre into, among other things, the Rural Development Centre, and within these facilities the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering and the Agricultural Institute also operates. But it's not basically a castle facility that, thank God, has taken over and finally started to use this government for purposes and not for someone skating on the floor, but for this castle being used for what it's basically intended for, and it's also a suitable facility, because it's very nice, with a sense of restored building heritage with cultural toll and other sources of money from the state budget. However, what was acquired or spent on European funds was only for the production of various studies on how to actually manage this rural development centre. And he hasn't been set up yet. The agreement is that the Centre for Rural Development should move to a more suitable location where a causal farm, which could even be solved, could be a much more suitable place for it to appear there in a typical Slovenian rural environment, how one such larger farm should operate in situations where it is necessary to obtain funds not only from basic agricultural activities but also from parallel rural activities. Let me get this straight. I think that there is no need to discuss this issue at all, but it is necessary for more ministers to sit down and find a real concrete solution for activation. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Do you want a colleague Kumer in your own name? You have the floor, Comrade Kumer, please don't discuss it, but explain it to the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u149	I will support my own proposal and therefore I ask that you also draw the other Members to my proposal. However, I would only give one brief explanation or an answer to the fact that this debate would not be necessary. Once again, large agricultural funds have been invested in rebuilding the castle itself. I'm not going down that in the past half of this money has not been invested in the reconstruction of the rest of agriculture, but in the castle. If 250,000 euros from Phare were earmarked for their own studies, there are even more questions. And thirdly, today is taking place in this castle - two private colleges are doing study work. So it's not just a protocol purpose, which is wrong for me for the basic purpose, but it's already externally given to someone else. And once again, if it were the will and all three of us did our best, so the government through the Agricultural Institute and so on, today this center could function after seven years. It is already eloquent that in seven years they have not been able to reach the Director once, but that they are now performing four duties of not speaking at all about the other acts. It is said that from the beginning, the purpose of the use of this space and this castle was intended for something completely different than the basic purpose and vision. This is a center for agricultural development and so on, I do not explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 38. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Gantar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mr Janez Podobnik to the question of the question of water management and management by Dr Paul Gantar. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Mag. Andrej Bručan to the question of the Chamber of Physicians of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Mrs Marjeta Cotman to Mrs Sreč Friend's questions on the implementation of the Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Working with asbestos. I request an application for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, on Monday, I asked the Minister why she did not allow or ensure that the applicable law proposed by the Government in the National Assembly was not implemented by the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos. Article 2 of the Act refers to who are the beneficiaries of these essentially premiums and Article 12 of which provides the means to ensure diagnosis and the work of the verification committees. As you've seen, the minister was answering something else entirely. And respectable colleagues and colleagues, if your bears aren't sacred to you, then let them be holy to you at least to your human life. This is mainly because we cannot in fact identify the disease in those patients who have this disease, because simply because the state has not provided money under the applicable law. And if this continues - this is also pointed out by the SABS association, which, of course, even when it announced 24.1.2007 with the Minister, the Minister did not want to accept it, it will probably have major consequences. For this disease manifests itself to the right degree only now, because it has a long latent period. I would like to ask if we can reopen this issue, because we have a law in force and the state has to respect it, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an explanation in our own name. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. I might say that I will not support this, because the Minister's response was, of course, clear, exact, unless you want to take it as such. The Minister replied that the representative of SABS would be accepted by the Secretary of State. You're saying she didn't want to. She probably couldn't. As for your question, the Minister replied to you that in October 2006 a commission was set up to remedy the consequences of asbestos and that since the date it was appointed, it has been said since October 2006, and until this point, 97 applications - colleague Friend, if you listen - have been discussed 97 applications and there are no delays in her work. However, she did the work that would have to be done in the previous 4 or 5 years and was not done in this regard. I think the Minister has answered you with all the information and there is no reason for you to request further consideration of this. There is even less reason to say that if bears are not holy, you should be holy to the people who are sick of this disease. So this is your comparison and it is also similar to your way of speaking and implementing in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the procedure. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. The agony of asbestos patients has indeed been dragging, respected colleagues and colleagues for too long. And you will remember, I believe, the first law introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is very, very much reduced by rights and, of course, financial resources for asbestos patients as well. It was a veto vote, but you ran over, respected coalition colleagues, including a veto or a warning from the State Council. Another law was passed, a law passed by the Dessus Group, which gave more than the Government, but you have also reduced this law so much, you have reduced it to give nothing in fact. And today the fact remains. Yesterday, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs did not reply and those who say - you know that you are very good at suggesting to ministers how to deal with certain laws or amendments tabled by Members. But you know, this time you're wrong about the one who says the secretary answered the question. The question was clear and loud; Article 2 of the existing law and Article 12 of the existing law were highlighted. If you want me to explain the difference: the Minister was responsible for those people and financial resources who already have the disease asbestososis, but she did not know how to answer for those cases or those people and, of course, the financial resources for those people who do not yet have the disease. You know, and here's another big hole, a hole in the implementation of the law. And that is what we want Members of the Slovenian National Party to talk about in this Parliament, and not least about whether these patients will finally get the assistance they deserve from the country. I'll back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Throwing sand in a man's eyes doesn't make him blind. Don't fool people now that someone's attacking the minister, because no one's attacking the minister! The fact is, there is a magnetic record in the National Assembly. If not, at least read it. Please give yourself a read, question, magnetic recording and see if the answer has been given or not. The question is that the answer to the specific question has not been given, that the law has been adopted, and that the law is not being implemented. And of course, you must admit by this you do not want to hear that the law is not being implemented. Besides, you don't want to hear why. We'll tell you. As for bears and men, Mr. Aloise Sok. Yeah, we're real, we love animals and people, and those people weren't, and they'll never be bad, but whatever you're looking at.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'd like to say one more time about those who weren't here, but you had the secretary at the consultation, and you whispered in her ear what to say. You're one of them, Mr. Sok. The Minister responded to me about how much compensation has already been paid and these compensations, see, they have been paid out of the state budget and given that Salonit Anhovo has received over 2 billion tolars, the state has paid twice the already saved cases. Therefore, for those persons who received the money, it is also disputed that, later on, when they agreed to settle, the court ordered them to pay the costs. That's what I told the secretary. And in the end, they didn't get anything. They were double-crossed. So much for your honesty. As for the non-execution of the law, it is more than clear if it is implemented - say yes; but if you do not - for God's sake, we have appointed the Government in the National Assembly to implement it. Otherwise, you are as responsible before the law as any other citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will also support my fellow Member's proposal for an extended debate on - we can also name about life or whether someone is sick or someone deserves something. Even if your claim, Your Honourable Fellow, is true - but I know that it is not true that I sat in this Chamber in contrast to some who will vote against it today and vehemently claim that the Minister actually replied, even though they were not in the Chamber when the Minister answered - I will vote in favour. And I believe in you that people's lives are sacred, at least you should be. Unless you've all listened to the voice devices in your offices and understood the answer that might have been given in a language that you can understand and only you can understand; we don't understand it. Your attitude towards patients, to asbestos patients we have seen, heard, heard from Slovenia, heard from patients, their relationship was not very friendly to your position at the time. And when we talk about diseases like asbestososis, we can focus this debate at every session, and I think it would be a world and a human debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Comrade Sok, you have already served Comrade Sok, when I first invited him to explain himself on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[...]] All the other speakers have given in their own name, including you among them, so I will not give you another word. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the assembly did not accept the proposal. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mrs Marjeta Cotman to the question of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the position to the creation of comprehensive legislation on the protection of children's rights. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, yesterday I received a very positive response from the minister. A positive response towards the Minister's willingness to listen to proposals coming from elsewhere, not just from the coalition, but from the opposition, at least from other institutions or authorities within our country. The Minister said that in the coming days, the new Ombudsman would even consult and discuss whether in our country they would approach the creation of an independent body that would care solely for children's rights. You know, it's a very important area. Yesterday, I highlighted quite a few laws that would necessarily be necessary for us to adopt them into our legal order, but Slovenia, as the only country or one of the few within Europe and almost the only within the European Union, still does not. This, of course, does not comply with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I am specifically talking about Article 4 of the Convention. And as I said, because the Minister has expressed her readiness, I am sure that you, my fellow Members and colleagues, will express your readiness and attach or press the "yes" button in order to hold a broader debate in this House on the need for legal regulation of the field of children's rights. Last but not least, the numbers say that violence against children is increasing, that there are also more and more severe forms of violence against children, even when we talk about sexual violence. And if some of you have said in explanation of the previous voice that your life is holy to you, that the bears are holy to me, they also are holy to me; but especially are my children. That is why I believe that you agree with me that the rights of helpless children, those who, unfortunately, are too loud in our space must be protected in the first place. I hope that, as has already been said, you will support the request for an extended debate, so I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We can go to the vote. I'm sorry. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I think it's a proposal in which we won't tear up a minister or throw a pollen under her feet. This is a proposal in which we want to engage constructively and propose a wide range of good and smart decisions that could be incorporated into new legislation or extended legislation concerning children's and children's rights. I think it makes sense for us all to support this debate together. Once again, it is not about finding faults, it is not about destroying anything, it is about building good legislation together, and if nothing else, at least getting closer, if we don't even upgrade the foundation that Europe already knows in this area. I don't think it's necessary to explain these matters too much. It makes sense to support this and please. I will support you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41]] . I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. We are moving on to the last draft of the decision, on the proposal of Mr Sam Bevk, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister without a licence, in charge of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar and the Minister without a document responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation and strategies of the development of Slovenia, Dr Žige Turk, to the question of Mr Sam Bevk's delegation regarding the modernisation of the road infrastructure in the Idrij-Cerkljan region, or its inclusion in the country's strategic documents. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The discussion would be useful to clarify why the Government does not respect the decisions taken in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and then evaluate them with lower-level documents. In 2004, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a spatial development strategy for Slovenia, in 2006, last year, and I think that there was one month of June, and a resolution on the transport policy of Slovenia. In both of these documents, the so-called fourth development axis was equally represented, that is the road from Robič to Želen, there split into two legs, the mountain and the idriic part, and continues on to the highway cross against Škofja Loka or against Logatc. However, the Government then adopts in autumn 2006 a resolution on national development projects 2007-2023 and February this year a national reference framework for the period 2007-2013 and operational programmes for the development of transport infrastructure. And, of course, devalue the two documents that were previously adopted in the National Assembly, because in both of these government documents the fourth development axis in the form of the letter y is actually disabled, since nowhere was the Idrial part of the fourth development axis taken into account. For these reasons, it would be interesting to hear the arguments of the representatives of the Government why they did not take into account the decisions taken in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I ask you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm reopening the procedure. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. I would have given myself more initiative to meet again, but to prepare some new jury statement, which was just one of the stages of the fourth development axis. This development axis or phase construction is progressing as it has been prepared. Especially how local communities are animated. If the local community has prepared a location plan and an entire paper war, then a phase can begin. On our side this has already happened or are already preparatory work on the ground, or access to the construction site of the Diocese, which is one of the stages in the fourth development axis. I think that there is no need to debate here in the National Assembly, but perhaps some initiative within the framework of the Club of Goran Members in cooperation with the mayors of the municipalities on the fourth development axis. That is why I will not support this proposal. However, I will support activities in the Club of the Goran Members or activities together with mayors and Members from the fourth development axis.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u170	Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I'm speaking for myself, too. I am at home on the border, so I am also a member of the Club of the Goran Members, and currently also the Chairman of the Club of the Maritime Members. And I also know what we talked about in the Jury and when we accepted the so-called Jurassic Declaration, it was specifically written there, here my colleague Starman can say that it is also necessary to take into account the Iderian part of this fourth development axis. As to how state-owned location plans are adopted or not, let me say that the fourth development axis is only in the process. While there is no need to make substantial changes to the Idrian part of the fourth development axis, most of the route would be on the same route as the road has already been cleared, so that no national location plans are needed. The national location plans for the Idrian part of this route, or the fourth development axis, would be particularly necessary if in Kalcea this Celtika connects to the highway cross elsewhere, and here we have a joint action with the Logan municipality and also with fellow Member Brenčič, and I hope that the representatives of the ministries will listen to these initiatives and that things will finally come to fruition. Let me comfort you, Mr Ziherl, and I also support all these projects in Gorenjska and thank God that this is happening. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I also conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Until then, it's all good.
