ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's session cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Polonca Dobrajc for the beginning of the session, mag. Janez Drobnič, Drago Koren, Martin Mikolič and Alojz Sok. I have invited the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, to the 35th item, the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr. Janez Janša, to the first item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs. Marija Lukačič, to the 34th item, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at the 14th and 15th points, the representative of the Council of Justice at the 35th item and the candidate for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, Dr. France Grad, to the 35th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Your Honor, before we move on to the agenda, may I have your attention, please? On 21 November 2005, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution on the Holocaust Memorial and on 27 January declared the International Day of Holocaust Remembrance. Therefore, I ask Members and Members to remember the victims of this tragedy for a minute of silence. [[...]] [[One minute of silence.]] [[...]] Crimes against humanity are remembered not only for compassion for victims but also for never to be repeated. Dear Members, we are moving on to the agenda of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 19 January 2007. I will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. That is why we are moving on to the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 24th meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving to 34. Agenda item - Notification by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the derogation of Ms Maria Lukač from the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food. On 15 January 2007, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, informed me that Mrs Marija Lukačič had resigned from her post as Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, has resigned and ceased her duties as Minister and that she must carry out ongoing business until the appointment of a new Minister or Minister. I thank the Minister for Cooperation and wish her the best in her work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is questions for Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members and representatives of the Government! Please calm down and take your seats. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POINTS AND THE POINTS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 22 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition will be answered by the Prime Minister of the government. Members have three minutes to ask questions, the Prime Minister and the Minister reply to the question within a maximum of five minutes; if the question is raised by the larger ministers, they all have five minutes to answer it together. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request an additional reply but cannot ask an additional new question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. The first question will be put by Mr Miran Potrč to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Increasingly, data and cases that create uncertainty and suspicion are coming to the public more and more, whether the Government always fully respects laws and carefully manages public funds. Recently, these questions and concerns concern the conduct of Minister Bručan in providing emergency medical assistance to helicopters, the conduct of Minister Erjavc in relation to the conditions of procurement of 135 armoured persons Patria, the conduct of Minister Zupan in relation to the award of reserved places for special studies to private universities, the use of a service vehicle in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for private purposes, the decision of Minister Zver to pay more than eight million euros in compensation to the Roman Catholic diocese in Maribor for the inability to use facilities of the former secondary agricultural school and the Faculty of Agriculture in Maribor. The competent ministers do not always answer these questions, warnings and observations with convincing certainty. At least in some cases, disputed conduct has already been established. Before taking office, the ruling coalition promised a determined fight against corruption, consistent respect for the rule of law, the denial of all forms of clientism and the political responsibility of all ministers and government officials who had to even sign an ethical code before the beginning of office. Often, only empty words remain, data are only partially made available to the public or disguised, and this is not in line with the promised government policy. In order to be, for example, a helicopter selected on a public invitation to tender, it has already been denied, but you did not require any responsibility from the competent minister, Mr President. That, or because something similar can happen in other cases, I ask you: Can you ensure that in all these cases, the conduct of the Government and ministers has been consistent, legally, in accordance with public interest and without abuse of personal relationships? Can you ensure that so far they have been provided by the government and ministers and that they will always be provided to the public in the future with all the necessary information and all the legal grounds on which they were based in the government or ministries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you for the questions. It would be difficult to say "for one question", if there were many questions, there was little time available. However, I have already taken a public stand up to some of those who have been exposed, which is why I can be shorter in my answers. First of all, whether the Government always and everywhere acts the maximum legal and logical way of a good master. The government is trying to act. I am not saying that we have never made any mistakes or that it is possible to rule out even in advance, this is always happening. However, there is a fundamental difference between the conduct of the current government and most governments earlier. This is what happens when a mistake is discovered, we also try to do it in good will and to correct and correct it in the best way possible. And also some of the cases listed here are those where there has been some conflict of laws, such as in the case of helicopter transport. One was regulated by the Law on Protection and Rescue, the other by the Law on Public Procurement. After reconsidering the decision, the Government has rectified the decision. When it came to compensation for real estate in Maribor, the Roman Catholic Church was paid compensation for the delay in denationalisation. And if the matter continued and the solution stalled further, the compensation would be even greater. If there were no settlement, that would have been the case. If the previous governments, in which you have been well involved, were to take matters of denationalisation faster, these compensations would be smaller and smaller. You're not going to dig the current government. It is also necessary to compare the compensation paid and the compensation or fate actually required from the beneficiary. There's a big difference here, and in the end, there's a settlement. With regard to the purchase of armored vehicles, 8x8. This is not the decision of this government or this National Assembly. This is a decision of the previous term, both legislative and executive. On the basis of this decision, an invitation to tender was opened. Two foreign bidders came forward. He was chosen more leniently. The one who wasn't chosen complained. I think the case is still in court, which is a common case with us. There have been some doubts about the contracts. A few days ago, the Ministry of Defence lifted any reservations to the review of these contracts. Members of the Defence Committee may or may not have seen this. If it wasn't enough for anyone, it could go again, you can check everything. I am convinced that it would not be possible to conduct this procedure in a substantially different way. In view of the apparent fact that the Minister once said one word so, and secondly only one sentence is quoted, as is usually the case in such cases, is cited. Even if word or statement contradicts, it is not illegal. We have heard many words spoken in Slovenia, but they are not respected. The country's top officials say they won't run and then run. The former Minister of Finance said about eight years ago that he would step down and pay out of his own pocket every tolar that would go out of state guarantees for the bankruptcy of Optimism. These guarantees came from State resources of 380 million. The former finance minister didn't even pay a tolar. He's running now for a new high function, etc. In short, hunting for the words of the representatives of this government would be very good if the same criteria were respected. But as has already been said, this government has been in a situation several times when it had to correct its own decisions, correct them, admitted a mistake, and so will we do in the future. I can't ensure that we don't make any mistakes anymore, but I can assure you that we will fix them if that happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u7	Mr. President! You probably overheared in my question, I don't think you deliberately answered when I asked: Will you always, and in any case, make available to the public and also to Members and Members all the necessary information to be able to accept our own assessments? I would like to ask you once more about this and to make it clear that I am particularly interested in this information with regard to decisions relating to the Vrban plateau. I wonder: When was the decision to return to nature? Who accepted it and on what legal basis? Did the decision on return take into account the situation of the facility at the time of confiscation and all the investments made from confiscation to return, or was there more appreciation of who the valuers were, what were the grounds? As we know, the Slovenian Indemnity Company also points out that the valuations are very different and can result in very different numbers that are more or less favourable to the solution. Is the government known for how many similar requirements there are and at what height and whether there is something or all of this information, the legal basis and the decisions of the government to obtain a picture of themselves? Since the majority opinion is probably not only my own that the law must be respected, even though it is inadequate, but respect for the law can be very different, whether it is respected consistently in favour of limiting rights and protecting public funds, or in terms of great broad-mindedness. And we'd like to assess that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u9	I have not overheared this question, and I also think I have listened well, and it has not been put this way before. The basic decision regarding the return of this property in Maribor was taken in August 2004, even in the previous term. And all the material that has served the Government to assess and make decisions on settlement or compensation is open material, no document is confidential, is available.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you. The next Mr Victory Jelinčič the Noble will ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr First Minister, I would like to know how citizenship is granted in Slovenia. Recently, there has been some serious blood, for example, when an Egyptian citizen has received Slovenian citizenship, after he has carried out severe terror over his family, beaten his wife, beaten his children; and yet the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia has granted him citizenship in spite of everything. On the other hand, we have examples of a Ukrainian woman who has been married to Slovenia and has been living in Slovenia since 1993, she has two children, a son aged 6 years old, and a daughter aged 13, who is employed here, married to a Slovenian, and who has renounced Ukrainian citizenship even in 2003 at the request of an administrative unit and is thus without citizenship in Slovenia, she does not obtain citizenship. On the other hand, citizens such as Mr. Aksentijevic, who fought Slovenia, may also receive a pension; while the next case is, say, Mr. Zembrovski Aleksander, who married Slovenka and was nominated this year for the best ballet dancer in the world for 2006, but he will not get citizenship. But all those who have had anything to do with Slovenia, who have become involved in criminal acts or have any connections in these administrative units, will get it, because otherwise I can't think that they can get to these citizenships. For a man who has come from Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, without a job, without a family here, without everything else, can easily acquire citizenship in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that the law is definitely bad, and I ask whether the Government intends to amend and correct legislation on one hand, particularly that strange article 11, and whether the Government intends to review some of the citizenships that some people have received between 1993 and 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u13	In general, I do not think that there are any discriminatory decisions in Slovenia or any decisions on the other hand concerning the granting of citizenship. The legislation has recently been amended and I think that it is now quite appropriate to regulate the granting of this status. But it is true that these changes do not apply back. This particular case, mentioned in the question of an Egyptian citizen, which was also mentioned in the media, is being checked, but it was, of course, for the award of citizenship on the basis of the fulfilment of the conditions after marriage with a Slovenian citizen or a citizen. And also some of these cases, which you say are controversial because some have fought against Slovenia in 1991, even in some of these cases there has been the distribution of citizenship on this same basis, not on the basis of extraordinary naturalization or other conditions, but on the basis of marriage with a Slovenian citizen or citizen. And cases such as Aksentijevic and the others do not fall within the mandate of this government and, individually, no one has examined how these citizenships were granted. In any specific case, when, of course, one can state the actual reasons for the dispute, it can also be done back, but the new legislation cannot be retroactively taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr First Minister, you said that citizenship was acquired after marriage with a Slovenian citizen or citizen. In short, after naturalization, but then I ask why it didn't happen in other cases. I think it is also necessary in this case, not only in the case of this Egyptian citizen, but also in other cases to introduce a review of the functioning of certain administrative units, because I am convinced that it was for, if not for bribery, but at least for the unequal treatment of certain cases. As far as Ukraine is concerned, this is Natalija Sumovskaya, who has children, lives here, is at work and so on, and does not get citizenship. The gentleman from Bosnia is Ekrem Pobric, who received citizenship without a problem. One wonders what vats and what weights are used to determine this nationality. Looks like it's not exactly appropriate. As the previous mandate was responsible for the majority of these citizenship allocations, of course I agree. However, I think it would make sense, at least, to introduce an audit in some of the most eccentric cases and to deal with the final arrangements.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u17	I find it difficult to answer the previous and specifically raised questions relating to specific cases here because the question has not been so announced. It was very short and general, without mentioning a single case or name. What you have specifically stated can only be verified. Every matter in particular in advance, I find it difficult to say that it was either wrong or wrong, as you say, or all right, as it stands on paper. Each of these cases will be checked by the competent services and we can give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Milan M. Squeakl will ask the next question to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u19	Citizens and citizens, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! Mr. Janša, how do you assess the appropriateness of the planning and spending of taxpayer's money under your Government's mandate? In the 2007 and 2008 budgets, you wrote that we have a good situation so that we can cut taxes for the rich, spend more money on roads, guarantee railways, buy a lot of weapons and make a whole bunch of projects for the purposes of European Presidency. Just two weeks after the adoption of the budgets, you say in the content programme: "That is true, but in 2009 it will be necessary to reduce the scope of public administration, rationalise social transfers, reduce social welfare allowances, give less money to pensions, limit health spending and thus save 600 million euros so that the deficit is not greater than one percent." Explain the difference. The difference in higher spending is about half a billion euros. If one of your ministers happens to buy 25 unfurnished tanks instead of 135, it will be determined in the meantime that these will be delivered 2 years later [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In the meantime, hundreds of Korošci will go on the road, please, if you can explain the difference in the stability programme and the budgets adopted. [[...]] Explain why you had three different targets for 2009 in the budget memorandum and in December in the stability programme, first in the framework of the June 2006 reforms. 240 million minus, 300 million euros minus and 900 million euros minus, and at the assumption of 600 million million reductions in expenditure, this minus will be 300 million. The analysis shows that your tax and non-rational spending in 2009 will require the rehabilitation of your mandate. Please explain, as the European Commission also points out. What will you tell the European Commission about the detail of spending limitation? And in the end. Mr Janša, after you have spent your tax money rationally if it is necessary after the end of your mandate to retain the euro and the Maastricht criteria, which is €600 million, to reduce public spending by 150 billion? Thank you and I'm asking for an exact answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u21	I assume that this issue is raised on behalf of the opposition or the largest opposition party. As far as these constant indications are concerned, how this Government is now doing something that will harm the future and how this mandate will have to be remedied in 2009, I would very much like to see these statements finally supported by some credible figures. What we have just heard is about the same as in some secret document, now it is no longer a secret because the Bank of Slovenia has withdrawn this code of confidentiality from this material, and what the head of this institution himself says is the Bank of Slovenia, said it is a virtually incredible scenario. I see a strong link between these insinuations in the fact that the Member who raises this question once took the lead in this analytical sector in the Bank of Slovenia, which still writes such things and which, unlike the claims that have arisen in the public, have not been sent to the European Central Bank because the institution would have been completely discredited in this way. However, such insinuations are then used for political accounting, for some newspaper headlines, where it says "in a decade we have to land in poverty" or "the current pensioners eat up the future of future pensioners" and such things. And all of this is based on insinuations that do not hold, have no real basis, not in the current state, not in numbers, not in trends. If it were as you say, Slovenia today would not be a member of the European Monetary Union, because the criteria under which we were assessed were not only important that we are currently achieving these positions, but also that trends were being assessed. Lithuania was not admitted to the euro area because of trends, not because of the current situation. At the beginning of the mandate, this coalition set itself a very ambitious goal. Many of the objectives are contained in this ambitious objective, namely to reduce the percentage of public consumption in gross domestic product by 2% in this mandate. When the coalition came into office in December 2004, we inherited 47.4% of the point of public consumption in gross domestic product. Thus, the aim would be to reduce this public consumption to 44.4% by the end of 2008. This objective will be achieved in the light of trends, in the light of the successes achieved, and also of the trends that follow. None of these catastrophic scenarios, which someone constantly predicts and then hides in secret documents or in some way misuses it for political accounting, will be realized. Surely none of these catastrophic scenarios will be realized and I really do not understand how some are unable to enjoy success and are satisfied only when they speak of bad things, even if they are fictional.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Don't worry about my status first. I would like to discuss with you how you run the government, how you run the government, not whether analysts should write anything freely or write only what they say and should check with analysts the independent minister of finance. I especially ask you, Mr President, to speak truthfully here and to explain the figures because this, Mr President, is your data. This is the stability programme adopted at the 100th regular meeting, 7.12.2006. Please tell the Slovenian public here, in truth and not like a few days later last December, that, and so on it says, you will reduce social transfers by 150 million euros in 2009. From 7.5 to 7% gross domestic product. The difference is €150 million. It also says in this programme, Mr President, if you read it to raise VAT in 2008, unless you take measures such as rising energy sources or tomorrow's 70% of administrative fees, you can prevent that. This programme says, but I do not know if you have aligned this with the Minister of Labour, that in 2009, 2010 there will be a double the employment of older people than now. And Mr Bajuk said on Friday that rail spending is only 120 billion, but you have accepted some lighthouse set of projects where you say you will spend more than 2,000 billion for railways. So explain, Mr. President, why duality? Why is one document for the National Assembly, where everything is fine and another document for the European Union, where you say it will be necessary to reduce public spending by 150 billion in 2009? Please explain this truthfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u25	So reducing public spending is good for this government, not bad. This government promised at the beginning of the mandate that it would reduce the share of public consumption in gross domestic product by two percentage points because it is too high. During the reign of the Liberal Democracy, on average over 48% of gross domestic product. And we have also said how we will do this, and there are no differences between the documents we accept in the Government, we send them to the National Assembly in the framework of the budgetary memorandum and we send them to the European Commission. That would be a lot of nonsense if we did that. In fact, this would have been the case for some time if we, too, referred to certain projections as being strictly classified or strictly confidential, as some other institutions do. On that basis, you can speculate. However, it is certainly not possible on the basis of public documents that Slovenia is part of the European Union, that what is accepted in this National Assembly or in the Government is published online, is transparent, it makes no sense to report one to itself and one report to the European Union. And that's not what we're doing. As far as the billions you have calculated and supposed to be lacking in social transfers are concerned, it is also necessary to know that Slovenia is achieving very good economic growth and that gross domestic product is increasing every year, fortunately. And that the percentage of 1,000 billion is not the same as the percentage of 1200 billion. This should be known by now and that the thing will be more plastic, I suggest that you all read a similar debate in the context of the sent questions in the first half of 2005, when percentages of economic growth were published in the first quarter of 2005, is the first year of the government's mandate, then economic growth, I think, 2.3%. Member of the Parliament, Mr Cwickel, who has now left the Chamber, has done a full study here on how the Slovenian economy is sinking and how Slovenia will have very low economic growth at the end of the year. No, none of this happened. Slovenia records a significant increase in economic growth, as recorded during the mandates of the previous governments, we have the lowest unemployment rate, wages are actually increasing and Slovenia has only met the conditions for entry into the European Monetary Union. There are no catastrophic scenarios on the horizon. And once again, I propose that we are able to look forward to this, but not to be happy only when someone is getting sick.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u27	Mr President, on a procedural basis, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 226, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate so that we can all rejoice in the same data. Mr Janša was misleading in his reply and said, above all, that what the National Assembly had adopted were projects for 2007 and 2008. On these projections, you also suggested that we guarantee railways, only a few days later it became public consumption. And all of this requires, from your documents, this is evident, that in 2009 very much reduce expenditure on pensions, health care, social transfers, subsidies. Here, Mr President, I do not know if it is consistent with your Minister, twice the employment of older persons. You assume that there will be an increase in VAT in 2008. You assume that 1,500 civil servants will be forgiven per year. These are the numbers from the stability program. And I think it is necessary to hold a debate on the fact that Brussels, the European Commission, based on this data, not on the data that you are using maliciously these days to block the appointment of the governor of an independent institution, the European Commission itself doubts this, Mr President of the Government, that the budgetary outcome will be much worse than you predicted in the stability programme. In the last 16, 17 years, it has not yet happened that in one year about 250 billion flexible parts of the budget could be reduced by 150 billion. Nobody's seen this movie before. And it is very easy to say that in 2005-2006 we will spend, and in 2007-2008 we will continue to do so, but in 2009, Slovenia will stay indoors, under 3% of the deficit, and we will reduce public spending by 150 billion. This means less social transfers, less pensions, less subsidies, and less investment. At the same time, you are adopting some programmes where you say that you will invest €8 billion in only one area. A few weeks ago, Umar's analysts warned of this, and you quickly disciplined them. In fact, the Bank of Slovenia, the system of European central banks, has pointed out that, of course, you have misused what Bank of Slovenia analysts are doing here. You were an analyst yourself once, and you know how it ended. Allow analysts to do their job, Mr President, and above all coordinate what you send to the National Assembly and what you send to the European Commission is quite different. Please support the procedural decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Cwickel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jožef Horvat will next ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u29	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Mr President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, honourable Members, honourable Members! In the third quarter of 2006, we recorded a record of 5.6% economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia, most of which is in the last six to seven years, and the overall economic growth in 2006 is close to 5%, allowing us to move closer to the old members of the European Union. On 15 January, Slovenia marked the entry into the European Monetary Union, where it entered as the first new member of the European Union. As an economically successful and democratically developed country, it will chair the European Union in the first half of 2008. Unlike some skeptics from the opposition and some newspaper commentators, the international community and the European Union are particularly open to recognition of Slovenia's success, which was not the last thing shown by the prominent participation of foreign guests in the celebration of Welcome to the euro in Cankar's home exactly two weeks ago. Dear Mr. President of the Government, I ask: How does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assess the current economic and political situation in the Republic of Slovenia after the successful adoption of the euro and the adoption of much of the reform measures? Thank you very much for your answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you for asking. The fact is that the current economic situation is solid, well, the results are - comparatively seen for a two-year period - better than ever before at the time of the independent state, and Slovenia is also considered a politically stable country. All of this was also crucial at the beginning of this mandate in 2004 in the decision to entrust Slovenia with the first Presidency of the European Union among all the new members of the European Union. All these things were weighing and it was no coincidence that Slovenia was offered the first such opportunity. In reference to previous discussions, let me say that the situation is not only solid now, but that trends are also good to talk about how Slovenia owes itself when it exceeds the Maastricht criteria here, they have no real basis. Slovenia is among the least indebted European countries, among the least indebted, only a few are in debt. The limit of the Maastricht criteria is 60% of GDP, we are below 30%, and we are reducing this percentage, the whole public sector debt or the participation of the country's consolidated debt in gross domestic product was in 2004, according to 28.7% at the beginning of this mandate. Despite the fact that investments were made, despite the fact that we made guarantees for railways and so on, this percentage, but the limit is 60% not 30%, did not rise substantially or declined. It is also lower in last year than it was in 2004; and in 2007, according to our projections, it is only 28.2%. Therefore, these guarantees and those debts, which are at stake for some, do not jeopardise the fulfilment of the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact or the Maastricht criteria on the other hand, we are far from any dangerous risk. And I also do not understand those who have left the Slovenian Railways concerned for the past 15 years that everything that is now trying to do to make the situation recover and also to settle in the long term is controversial. It is clear that this will have to be invested. Slovenia has also invested many, billions of euros to build the highway cross; it will also require billions of investments to modernise the rail network, especially the fifth and tenth European corridor in this part of Slovenia. And that's inevitable. If we do not want to be excluded, we have European international obligations, and it is also clear that if we do not want to be excluded from European transport flows, this must be done in the better development of Slovenia, better integration and higher economic growth. It is clear, however, that we cannot do this overnight, that it is not possible to hang this on just one generation, that the burden will have to be shared; and that is why this project is prepared by 2023, and at that time the project will be funded, partly by European funds, partly by budgetary resources, partly through public-private partnerships. All forces will need to be brought together here, and this will not endanger either pensions or health care or social protection. In the coming years, pensions will not go down, they will grow real, they will grow in line with the salaries voted by this National Assembly and proposed by this coalition and this government, in opposition to many who previously took almost 10% of their pensions. As a result, it will not be necessary to increase any contribution rates, since Slovenia can allocate higher funds at the same percentage of the funds allocated for certain purposes as it has a high economic growth. This is quite clear, and economic growth is therefore the foundation not only of economic but also of social development.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. In doing so, I inform you that the following ministers have apologized for today: Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Economy, Mr Andrej Vizjak. That is why I ask Mrs. Darjo Lavtijar Bebler whether she wants to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Although Minister Matthew is not here today, I would like to raise this issue mainly because I want to inform the Slovenian public that we are concerned and that there are reasons for this concern about how the police operate under the current political authority. In fact, it circulates a document in public, a record from the daily of the Operational Communication Centre of the Municipal Police, as police follow and observe citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I would like to know whether this is a consistent practice of the Slovenian police. Since Minister Mate is the minister responsible for the police, I am also interested in his position on the views of the Ombudsman, who is the most important institution for the protection of human rights in the country, and in the position of the professional public, that this is a matter for the police to overstep police powers and for excessive interference with human rights. The Director-General of Police refers to the legal basis for monitoring and monitoring and to police rules, which, as far as we know, are not published in the Official Journal, are not available on the Internet and for which the 2001 Constitutional Court Decision states that these rules are not a regulation but an internal act. And this is an internal act that does not contain standards that would have legal effects on the outside. So far, none of the competent authorities have denied the Ombudsman’s actual findings and not the press releases. More than obvious, however, we understand that observation focused on specific individuals, was longer and resulted in the collection, recording and analysis of personal data. In the rule of law, police observation and protection are not the same as surveillance. Let me remind you that the police can exercise focused supervision only in exceptional cases established by law and approved by the prosecution and the court. Interestingly, the Attorney General commented on the case in such a way that, according to the information received from the police and some of the prosecutions, there is no reason to say that it is an abuse of powers or a covert or covert investigation measure. For example, she did not reply that the request was made in accordance with the law and with the approval of the prosecution or the court. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Of course, it is clear to us that the police will not give data to compromise themselves or self-repromise themselves. I'd like to ask Minister Mate to tell you what he's like. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable ministers, in particular Mr Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. With the adoption of the Constitutional Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we have amended three articles for which both the profession and the policy have assessed that they need to be amended if we want to create the conditions for us to adopt the necessary legislation in the National Assembly to establish the provinces. Of course, it is a prerequisite for the Government or the Ministry to prepare this legislation and send it into parliamentary procedure. When we adopted the amendments to the Constitution when we decided to amend the three articles of the Constitution, it was announced that we would already be given legislation in the past year, that it was in fact ready to be just a matter of having to change the Constitution first; and solutions were announced that would lead to two-step local self-government, i.e. a second degree of the province, to establishing, so that in 2008, elections would also take place with the State-level elections to the authorities of the provinces, i.e. the second-degree local self-government. Last year you also presented legislation in the parliamentary group, we had the opportunity to make comments on your proposal, from the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. For the time being, the response to what is acceptable to the Ministry and what is not, we have not received, in the 2007 government's 2007 government statement, the work programme stated that the Government would address the provincial legislation in early January. So this didn't happen and I'm interested in: What is the latest timetable for the adoption of this provincial legislation? At the same time, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, also to the fact that in the Group of Social Democrats we have drawn attention to the fact that we want to consider a package of legislation for the area of second-degree local self-government together. So these four laws that you proposed, along with the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, are the last ones. However, the Government's programming plan foresees a six-month delay for the adoption of this law, and I am interested, as I have already said, in the timing of the adoption of this legislation, which is necessary if we are to introduce the provinces in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you very much for the question raised, honourable Member. The fact is that by establishing the provinces we want to achieve polycentric development of Slovenia, i.e. to carry out the decentralisation of Slovenia, also financially, in short, to accelerate coherent regional development; and that, of course, by establishing the province, we are significantly interfering with the way Slovenia is managed in the future, of course, when this legislation is adopted and will enter into force; and this means that it is an extremely demanding project. When constitutional changes were adopted in the National Assembly, we immediately stepped in to draft legislation, we also prepared this legislation at the first stage and, as you have already mentioned, we also presented it to all the parliamentary groups. With regard to the response of the parliamentary groups and also with regard to coordination, we have received answers at the end of last year, I must say that we have also examined these answers thoroughly and have also taken into account those solutions that could have already been taken into account in the further preparation and coordination of legislation. However, we are also preparing appropriate explanations for solutions that were not possible or that could be partially taken into account. During this time, in accordance with all these comments, there has also been intensive and, in part, inter-resort coordination, which is an extremely demanding process, and I can also inform you at this point that we are planning in the coming days, bearing in mind that coordination at this stage is in its final state, so that in the coming days, you may expect a re-presentation to the sending groups. For we want to harmonise this legislation as widely as possible, especially because we want to bring the landscape project in a way that will also offer the next development level and contribute to the development of Slovenia in the future. At the same time, legislation will also be dealt with in the Government. The presentation of the complete package of legislation to all municipalities is also scheduled for Wednesday, and all the mayors of all Slovene municipalities are invited to this interview or to this presentation. And we plan that in the coming days, but I would not really want to be precise about exactly one date, the legislation is being forwarded to the National Assembly, so that we can continue to follow and, at this point, continue to follow the time frame that would allow us to carry out the first elections with the next national elections. It is true, however, that as far as these coordinations are concerned, they are extremely difficult both at political and professional level, and it may also make sense to spend more time on a day of coordination and indeed to draw up quality legislation. Last but not least because we have been talking about this project of establishing landscapes for several years, for a good 12 years and now, at this point the time has come, and I am confident that all of us will also be able to prepare this project by adopting legislation in such a way as to make it possible in the future, and this also makes only sense, the next development stage also as regards the development of Slovenia throughout the whole of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Like in professional circles, there is probably a political dilemma about whether or not the landscape of the amphibian; and that this is one of the major problems, or the nuts, that need to be broken if we are to introduce the landscapes, so I understand the delay or your additional effort. I agree that there is a need to reach as broad a consensus as possible in this area, but it is true that you are also forced to seek this agreement by a provision that says that the Law establishing the provinces will be adopted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. In view of the experience of the Government that I have, where there is no need for more Members, such as the coalition, you are not very prepared to coordinate, but it is probably just as well that we have written this down in the Constitution. However, I am sure that another problem that accompany you in the preparation of the necessary legislation, particularly this last one, the fifth, which will in fact also mean the establishment of the provinces, is probably the number of landscapes where the story we had in 1994 in the establishment of the municipalities can be repeated when different interests arise. And since we are really expecting this provincial legislation, I am interested in: Whether at this point this dilemma of "a bivouac province" has already been removed and whether the final number of provinces, which has a majority in the National Assembly, may have been reached.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thanks again for saying that. Once again, I reiterate that the basic purpose of establishing landscapes is to move tasks together with financial resources and also with appropriate administrative structures from the state level down to the provincial level. This, of course, is the basis. At the same time, as a question of amphibians, there are a number of questions or, above all, professional questions, a number of dilemmas. Each solution has its own advantage, including its own weakness, and it is necessary to take these dilemmas into account, to take into account the arguments and I am sure that we will all find a solution that will be most appropriate for Slovenia. With regard to these four laws, the fifth law on the establishment of the provinces is being prepared simultaneously. Here I would particularly like to point out that the Constitution itself already requires a two-phase process of establishing the provinces. This is how we are now preparing this starting proposal, and we are also preparing it on the basis of, at this moment, the political thinking of all or almost all political parties. So I believe that this necessary consensus can also be reached here, and I am sure that political parties will also be able to make this political effort for further more coherent regional development of Slovenia, including polycentric development - of course, the establishment of landscapes is necessary. Thus, as regards the process itself, the starting point, as regards the number, and also in accordance with the thinking of individual parties, is somewhere related to the current 12 development regions and two additional areas. It is true, however, that this is a decision that will have to be taken at the final stage by the National Assembly. Congregations will also participate in the process. This, of course, does not mean that the congregations can now block these decisions, but, above all, express their views in those parts where there are really certain dilemmas regarding, say, the first proposal. In this way, together with this package of legislation, we will also prepare the starting point of this fifth law and present it to the political parties. Then it will also be accepted as a starting, ordinary procedure and will go public. The results of this public procedure may also mean decision-making, intervention, reaching out to individual municipalities, and this opinion will be taken into account in the preparation of the final proposal. I am confident that this opinion will be taken into account in the decision-making of the National Assembly. And I still believe that, after all this long debate in these 12 years, we will reach the provinces. I repeat, however, that the provinces must mean [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This developmental initiative. This is the purpose of this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you, Minister Zhagar. The next question will be asked by Mr Stane Pajk, Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u43	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ministers you've remained! The question is: at the end of last year's exhibition of the Republic of Slovenia's Directorate for Protection and Rescue was evicted from Krske. I have already orally informed the Minister that I do not agree with such behaviour, because in Kršek the nuclear power plant and logically this institution belongs to Krško. I also told him that such decisions have a negative impact on the local population, which is ahead of the question of whether to allow the construction of a landfill for medium and low-radioactive waste. The solution to this problem is conditioned by the possible construction of nuclear block 2. Of course, it will be necessary to ask the surrounding population about such a decision at the referendum. Therefore, it is not good to disturb this population needlessly. I'm asking the minister: What was the cause of the move? Why did the Ministry of Defence make such a decision? I also ask him: Have such evictions taken place elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u45	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, I thank you for this question. Let me say that the exhibition of the Department of Protection and Rescue has been active in the Municipality of Krško since 1995, in rented premises. The municipality of Krško expressed its desire for these premises due to the needs of the administrative unit. They therefore proposed that the Directorate for Protection and Rescue should move out of these premises. Together we searched for other locations within the municipality of Krško, but I must say that all these locations proved inadequate. However, let me say that the location in which the exhibition of the Protection and Rescue Board worked was also inappropriate because we had problems with the floods. Let me tell you, this place has been flooded twice. This is a regional information centre and also a warehouse, so we were looking for a new location along with the municipality, but unfortunately we did not find a suitable location. Let me say that it is in force at the Ministry of Defence, given that we have many properties, a policy to look first, if we have any space within our resources. And in the municipality of Brežica, which is the neighboring congregation, we found such private spaces in the former defence home, so it was kind of normal that we decided to move this administration or the exhibition of the Department of Protection and Rescue to this location. But let me say that this location fits because the police are nearby or at the same location, the firehouse, so the location is appropriate. I must say, because the resettlement was also a little late that we even had a lawsuit by the congregation of Krško in 2005 to empty these premises as soon as possible. Regarding practice in other municipalities, let me say that in Maribor we are also solving this problem and we are just ahead of moving the Rescue and Protection Authority, but it is true that within the same congregation. And the same is true in Celje and New Town, where we try to find suitable facilities for the operation of these services within our own property. But let me say that the threat to the nuclear visa is not going to be because it's essentially a location that's in the immediate vicinity -- it's a neighboring congregation. However, I think it is right that we rationalize our business in this way, because we have moved this activity into our own premises and now we no longer pay the rent to the congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Bručan, so far we have known you as a minister who strongly advocates the privatisation of health care. The proposed privatisation now apparently extends to the area of health insurance. Through the media, we were informed of a new offer by Adriatic Slovenian insurance company about a special voluntary health insurance that could provide the most powerful with a waiting list or an advantage waiting for certain investigations to be carried out against others who would not have or would not have been able to afford such insurance. The so-called third monthly premium insurance of between €4 and €8 is offered, which allows waiting species to be skipped, offers shorter waiting types and faster and free of charge in the private health service. At the same time, I am asking whether this is a health system crisis, if we need to have access to a third insurance system, and at the same time we know that some 100,000 Slovenians from their own pocket are unable to afford supplementary insurance. Therefore, the question is very clear whether it is a matter of disclosing the Slovenian society and moving away from the social and health insurance system, where the principles of solidarity, justice and non-discrimination among insurers should apply. Mr Minister: Does this mean that in Slovenia we want to create a system in which access to services and rights, which, while in the Constitution and laws for all equal, will depend on the property status of the individual? In doing so, the fact that these are the same rights that are an integral part of compulsory health insurance is obvious: What is your view of such insurance? Is this not a matter of public interest services and intervention in the public health insurance system, creating inequalities between insured persons and encouraging doctors to create and extend waiting and waiting types and ages and to disrupt the public health insurance and care system? How is it possible to justify the possibility that someone will be able to exercise a right for which he is already insured and is paying contributions for it only if he is insured again? Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: What measures do you plan to take to prevent such a scenario, or can you allow such an activity of Adriatica without any concern and responsibility for all its consequences arising from the irregularity of the area of voluntary insurance in our country?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u49	Mr President, Mr Germić, thank you for the question. Of course, I can answer one question for you in the beginning, that is that there is no health crisis in Slovenia, even this offer of this type of health insurance does not, of course, speak roughly in this direction. Nor do I think that I have ever, on any occasion, talked about the possibilities for dissolving Slovenian society and not for social differentiation. I would like to say something else in the introduction that the Ministry of Health and I personally received a proposal from Adriatic Slovenia for this parallel insurance on the table, just like everyone else, only after this decision had taken place on this insurance company and I was not even asked about it. However, the Ministry also notes personally that in the given case, the Adriatic Slovenian market offer is for one of the four legally defined types of voluntary health insurance provided for in Article 1, paragraph 4, of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which has been in force since 1.9.2005 and which has been unanimously adopted in this National Assembly. This enables insurance undertakings to introduce parallel health insurance covering the costs of health and related services and the provision of medicines and medical and technical assistance, which are a right under compulsory health insurance, but which are enforced by insurers under different procedures and under other conditions than compulsory health insurance. Therefore, skipping the waiting line for examination by a specific specialist is a different condition or procedure than for compulsory insurance and is a type of parallel insurance in voluntary health insurance. The provisions of the Law on Insurance shall apply to the implementation of these insurances and the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations shall apply to the contractual relationships. In all countries, public health insurance is known to have a wide range of waiting periods. Without waiting time, there is no health care, no health system in Europe financed only by public funds. The ministry has cut more than half the waiting period in the last two years, and for some interventions, waiting periods are virtually gone. However, since the scope of public funds cannot cover all the needs - and not in any country - without waiting types and not always provide a specific specialist, such needs and desires can also be covered by parallel and additional private insurance. This is a fact that no democratic state can even ban and I do not know the country which would defend this money for the organisation of the health system. There's no such country in the world. I don't know it. The Ministry of Health therefore considers that the new offer of the Slovenian insurance company came to the Ministry indirectly, at another stage, but given the modest offer of real voluntary health insurance, it is possible and gives the citizen the opportunity to take greater care of his own health. I personally think because you have already asked me what I personally think such insurance in Slovenia is possible, but before that it is absolutely necessary to make a clear distinction between such parallel insurance on the one hand and supplementary or compulsory health insurance on the other. Thus, a sharp distinction between one and the other types of insurance and its implementation in practice could lead to a marked reduction in waiting periods for those who would not be willing to participate in this parallel insurance. For both groups, waiting periods could be reduced. Once again, we have reduced the waiting periods so that in some areas they are virtually gone and are significantly lower than in any other European country.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u51	First of all, I thank you for your reply, but Mr Minister, I would like to remind you of the words you said in an interview in the Saturday Annex of the Work and say: "Two waiting lines, one for compulsory and one for additional insurance. These two shouldn't interfere with each other. If that's the case, the waiting lines will be reduced. Indeed, those who have more will come to a doctor more easily, but such a system exists everywhere." So much in response to what you are saying that you have never talked about how such an approach can introduce dissipation in Slovenian society and that those who will have more will also have the opportunity to provide health care and health insurance at a higher level, while those who will have less, of course, to a substantially lower level. In doing so, it is surprising that you are talking about how you successfully shorten waiting types and, on the other hand, we find that insurance companies are intensively offering additional possibilities for skipping waiting types. And let me just mention that since its publication in December, that is, in one month already 5,000 interested persons have been reported for such insurance. At the same time, Minister, it is concerned that in Slovenia the provision of health care will no longer be a fundamental human right and that accessibility to health services will be equally available to all. That's why I'm asking you again, Mr. Minister: What measures will you take to prevent this from happening? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much for this additional question. Of course, this is not about any healthcare services at a higher level than you have somehow found out. It is the same level, and in fact it is possible to use it where waiting periods are longer than it seems to some insured person that it is still possible to arrange it or that it is even possible to transfer it to the system. That interview I gave in Del, and that quote from Del is talking about exactly what I was talking about earlier today. I said quite clearly that in such a case, if this parallel insurance were to occur, waiting periods would also be reduced in compulsory health insurance. This is said to be for the benefit of all groups of the population, including those who do not wish or could not afford parallel insurance. In short, waiting periods would be in the event of a sharp separation between one system and another, and I will, of course, require this before such insurance could actually occur - in this case, the situation will improve for both groups: for those who will benefit from parallel insurance and for those who will not. Because this compulsory insurance group will come out of you as waiting and will leave room and reduce the waiting line for those who will also be waiting for this compulsory insurance. I think I can defend this opinion in an interview, and I can prove it anywhere. And nothing will happen as a result of this significant distribution among the population in the quality of healthcare. And that's exactly what I want to sort out in the future, so that these two waiting lines don't actually get mixed up. But, of course, here is what needs to be clearly defined as what is one and what is the other kind of waiting. I think that at this point in fact there may actually be a problem in Slovenia right now between this distinction and I will - what you somehow expected from me, this answer - also requires that this distinction be clearly seen and that there will be no problems on this line. It is true, however, that this is a matter of control, that this is a matter of control and such supervision must be carried out in this case primarily by the health insurance undertaking which is obliged to exercise this control. So I think that this is not a bad matter, it is a principle, it is a proposal which, for the first time, is legal, secondly for a proposal that reduces waiting types from compulsory health insurance, also allows faster treatment to those who will be only from compulsory health insurance in the waiting line, but it is necessary to divide these two insurancees and also two waiting rows - virtually 100% hermetically separate them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again. Of course, I would suggest that, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we discuss the Minister's response to my question. This is mainly due to the fact that the introduction of the insurance offered by Adriatic Slovenia constitutes, in fact, the possibility of a special voluntary health insurance enabling individuals to skip or shorten waiting periods for individual investigations or procedures. Such insurance is new to us and we do not have adequate legal arrangements. While we have it listed as an option in the form, i.e. in the Health and Health Insurance Act, we have a significant legislative deficit compared to those countries that know such insurance. Of course, such insurance creates even more dilemmas. I've already mentioned one of the dilemmas. This is a dilemma as to whether you include Mr Minister, given that we do not have a healthcare plan and we do not have a strategy; therefore, do you include such insurance in this strategy where it will be necessary to be additionally insured in order to be able to exercise the rights of compulsory health insurance. Secondly, the question arises whether these services will be provided in public institutions and in concessionaires, with the possibility of overlapping, additional services that will be secured in this additional insurance will also be paid from compulsory insurance services. There are also questions here as to whether it is an additional possibility of earning doctors who, of course, will be covering the mandatory programme during the regular period, and will also cover the programme of this insurance in the rest of the time. Finally, I would just like to point out that this debate would also be necessary in view of the fact that the area of voluntary insurance should be specified in the strategy and in the plan and that appropriate legislation should also be drawn up on this basis. And given that insurance is actually going to come into force at any time, it would be necessary for us to have a substantive debate on this issue in this House as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you. On Mr Germić's proposal that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Dusan Kumer, in spite of the Minister's absence, will you ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Recently, more and more people have been turning to me with questions about their injustices as a result of nepotism, clientism and corruption. In doing so, they claim that laws are now governing and that those supporting them are slightly different from those of others. To get this or that service by the public authorities to succeed at this or that invitation is largely dependent on a real client card; and this applies both to the state and the local level. So, these people are pointing to the obvious force of the problem of this country and society, that's customerism and corruption. Let me remind you that the current majority of the coalition has promised before the elections every day that if it gets people's confidence, it'll be quick to settle these thefts. Over the past two years, and nothing has happened, except that there's not much to talk about, and things are going under the rug every day. The latest study on the economic and business environment also confirms that corruption is still a very big problem for us. Businesses are most affected by nepotism and corruption of public servants and officials, both in the award of public contracts and in the acquisition of transactions, according to surveyed companies. In short, the pre-election promise that the fight against corruption will be one of the priority tasks of this government has sailed down the Sava. What's more, everything's gone quiet, nothing that clearly points to customerism and corruption is confessed. So everything is in order, despite seeing chickens stolen from the state’s hen for more than ten kilometers. Also in the way of purchasing Patriye, renting Flycom and awarding concessions to health care, the sale of state shares [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And so on. [[..]] I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior: What have the government, the ministry and the police done in the last year to deal with this problem? What are the concrete results of the fight against nepotism, clientism and corruption? How many of these suspicions of crime have been transmitted by the police to the prosecution for further proceedings? How many judicial epilogues in such cases have been completed in 2006 and the police have been the initiator? Last but not least: Do you have a review or the Ministry has a review of how many bodies within the Government and individual ministries already have specific integrity plans, as required by the Anti-Corruption Act?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Christmas, I ask the following question: I wonder how it is possible for the construction of the Pinke-Lendava motorway in our country to be driven by a grammes from neighbouring Hungary, and actually illegally across the green border? For there is no signed agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Hungary on transport at the green border, such as between Austria and Slovenia and between Italy and Slovenia. Who approved this deal? Why? And to what extent? The competent inspector has prohibited the importation of grammose, explaining that the tests are negative, as grammose is not suitable for the construction of the embankment. The SCT operator shall refer to the instructions of Darsa’s client, which is the import of grammes. Is the country present or is this happening with the knowledge of the State? And with the name and surname, who's even responsible for this business? How will the country act in the future? Whether it will tolerate illegal traffic across the green border, as this agreement certainly does not exist. Is it also true that for us Prekmurce is good all, including less quality material? I ask for answers to these questions and for the responsible action of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. Dear Members and Members! With regard to the question raised by the Member States concerning the issue of the construction of the Lendava-Pince motorway section on the ferry highway and the supply of stone materials from Hungary, I would like to provide an explanation. In accordance with the tender documentation and also the implementing contract, part of the obligation was given to the selected contractor to provide the necessary material resources himself. However, the task of the supervisory service is to ensure, on behalf of the contracting authority, that all embedded materials comply with the applicable standards and regulations in accordance with the contract. Thus, the selected contractor provided himself with the possibility to supply grammes from Hungary by concluding a contract with the Hungarian supplier for the supply of grammes material and at the same time obtaining permission for the temporary opening of the border crossing. The Supervisory Service has submitted documents demonstrating, in accordance with the implementing contract, that material for the installation of the motorway has been brought from the Republic of Hungary, as is the practice for all other supplies of grammatical materials throughout Slovenia. The decision of the inspector issued to the operator was appealed by both the contractor and the contracting authority. On the basis of the role of the contractor, the competent authority of the Ministry of the Interior, the Police Administration of Murska Sobota, issued a decision on the temporary opening of the border crossing between the EU members Slovenia and Hungary for the period from 1.10.2006 to 31.12.2007. On this site they may cross the national border with valid documents by workers who will supply grammes to the site of the route and are EU citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation and third-country nationals who do not need a visa to enter the Republic of Slovenia. I think this has given me a comprehensive answer to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u62	Mrs. Possonec, would you like additional answers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you haven't convinced me. How do they open a border without an agreement between the two countries? And it's not possible for them to just make a nice deal and open the border. That's one. Second. You're saying yourself that the inspector found out that this grammes were not suitable for the highway. You want that thing to happen again, like the Moore Bridge, where it all sinks because the material wasn't right?Oh, my God! You can't deny that she didn't get the test with us. And we've got a lot of grammes! I don't know why you have to wear it from Hungary after that. I'm so not happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much for further clarification. Mrs Maria Poszonec, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following that the whole process is guided, as I have already mentioned, not to repeat words, in accordance with the applicable Slovenian legislation. An appropriate permit has been obtained to cross the border between the two countries and the grammes which are being installed or for that purpose for which it is being built in has the appropriate certification. That's all I can say. However, I can ensure that these documents are delivered to our ministry and I would like to invite the Member of Parliament to look at these documents as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! In your presentation to the Home Committee at the beginning of your ministry, you have assured yourself that you will strive to adopt a status law on military service. Unfortunately, this is not yet available, and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which has recently been published on the Ministry's websites, does not constitute a significant added value for pursuing this objective. Even according to media statements, not least the General Staff's statements, we can see that the situation in the Slovenian Army is at least irregular and serious. On the one hand, the number of professional soldiers is decreasing, more are leaving than is newly included, and in addition to personal benefits, there is a strong reason for such a situation certainly to seek also in their status and non-living working conditions. In particular, many soldiers travel long distances every day from the place of residence to the place of service while others drive in the opposite direction. Surely, meaningful rationalisation could help to avoid this. Last but not least, it not only burdens the budget, but it also represents a huge waste of time. As a result, the military profession becomes so much less interesting, on the one hand, and the military, soldiers, officers in the workplace are appropriately less capable and active. As a result, Mr. Secretary, I would like to know: How and how, if ever, do you intend to regulate the status of a professional soldier? What proportion of Slovenian Army soldiers has a permanent residence more than 50 km away from the place of service? How much is the share of those who are at home more than 100 kilometers away from the place of service? How much of the share in the first six months of 2006 is the cost of transport to work compared to the salaries paid by soldiers during this period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u69	Your Honor, thank you for your question. With regard to the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, let me say that this law is ready, that it has already been published on the websites and that I have kept my word that this law will be prepared and adopted in this mandate. However, let me say that this law has already been taken into account for the adoption of the previous mandate, within the framework of the Provoj project, because the law is the result of certain changes in the Slovenian Army, and I agree with you that it is imperative that this law be reached as soon as possible. Professionalization of the Slovenian Armed Forces and operation in missions requires different regulation of the status of Slovenian soldiers, this is not only about soldiers, it is also about soldiers and officers. Let me say that this law will deal with all the essential problems we face because of the professionalization of the Slovenian Army; that is, from the acquisition of personnel - you know that in the recruitment system there is a legal obligation for a soldier to serve a military term unless he meets the health conditions or perhaps some other, while in the professional army it is a free decision of an individual and it is therefore necessary to obtain this soldier by other means. In this law we foresee the establishment of a scholarship fund where we will grant students, students, for professions in the defence system. Let me also say that when we become part of collective defence, we also have special training, special stages of preparedness. For example, if we are talking about rapid intervention forces - these forces must be available for six months, which means they must be in constant readiness, not to go abroad for 14 days, but to be around, and of course that means a certain burden, which is right to be paid under some supplements. I must say that, in the framework of the current legislation, here in particular, I am referring to the Defence Act, we cannot implement these payments. Let me say that we are also dealing with an important problem in this law, because you know that soldiers can contract up to 45 years of age and then automatically terminate their contract and that certain rights must be regulated for these members so that after 45 years they do not remain alone on the road as a social problem. That is why this law also provides for certain solutions, such as co-financing for employers who would accept such a soldier for a period of five years, then co-financing his entrepreneurial activities in the first phase and so on, not to mention all solutions. As I said, the law is ready, now, for the second time in inter-departmental coordination, we are coordinating with the Minister of Public Administration because we would not want to break the system in place in the public sector in respect of wages with this special law. But let me say that this law does not provide for a reduction in education for soldiers, that was a lot of writing in the media, and also that it does not foresee a mercenary army. That is said, only a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia can be a professional soldier in the Slovenian Army. The law itself will not solve the problem in the sense that members of the Slovenian Army will carry out their service near their home, because it is about having a centralised system, such a decision has been made in the past. The first brigade has its seat in Ljubljana and that's why soldiers drive to Ljubljana because they do all these trainings there. Regarding your specific question, how many members drive 50 km or more. Let me say that there are three 3,000 members, while there are 100 kilometers and more, but there are 1,000 members. That's why we're also thinking about being a military infrastructure, that's what a military unit is. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I would like to make a supplement, and in this way also allow the Minister to answer the third question, which concerns the specific level, of how much the total amount has been paid for the ride. Why did I ask that question? Also because this compensation is now reduced in the new regulation, it is linked to the amount and cost of public transport, but I warn you, Mr Minister, that many areas of Slovenia, where there is simply no public means of transport, are organised so that the military, soldiers, officers, officers can arrive at work on the same day from home and after eight hours or how long it takes. As a result, we certainly cannot ask them or provide them with compensation for public means of transport, but if they do not have the opportunity to return to work with public means of transport. And I remind you that this is not only Pomurje, which I know very well, but certainly many other areas with public transport are cut off from the centre. I know that your ministry is not responsible for this situation and this level of our public means of transport, but I warn you that you must take this into account, this fact and this situation into account when you determine how soldiers or employees in the Slovenian Army are paid for transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you for this additional question and for the opportunity to answer it to the end. First, let me say that we also tried to arrange these public transports in a way that we organised our transports for soldiers, officers, officers, but they didn't work. Let me also say that no soldier is driving in the opposite direction. We have the first brigade in Ljubljana, then we have the 72nd Brigade in Maribor and the 20th Battalion in Celje. And that's where the soldiers drive. It is true that Eastern Slovenia is the one that gives the most members of the Slovenian Army, so we also have in mind the construction plan, the expansion of the barracks in Murska Sobota, which will also contribute to keeping one part of the members in the area where they come from. With regard to costs, I should say that these costs amount to approximately €9 million in the first six months, so I am also to you on this third question. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[...]] About 10%.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Given that 99% of the answer to my question - I think it is credible - would be given by the Minister of Finance, who is not with us today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to answer me orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is here, I hope you will answer me in that 1%, and I am interested in the work area that you are covering. It has been clear for a long time or for some time in Slovenia we have been dealing with one problem, regardless of who is in government or who controls the government; it is double taxation of people, Slovenes who have found work abroad. The most common thing is working in neighbouring Austria. I think you'll all agree with me when I say it's not their fault, that during the period of so-called transition, systems such as the Iron Levels, there's Maribor and some others. And these people, because of their existence, because they could survive their family, they found work elsewhere. Some of them were found in neighbouring Austria; and, as you know or are not aware of, they are beaten by double taxation. It is said that their personal income is first taxed or paid in Austria and then due to the difference in tax in Slovenia. As far as it was clear to some that this was happening at a time when Slovenia was not yet a full member of the European Union - let us say we understood that. Once we have become full members of the European Union, this is a more difficult matter to understand, given that we are all talking about full membership. If there is any other membership of Slovenia in the European Union, please teach me about it. And if even the most opportune politicians who defend their views are able to say O. K., but we don't have the same currency yet, we're probably all looking forward to or looking forward to getting the euro - now we have it, and I wonder: When will this double taxation calvary finally end for these people who are doing nothing but that in some common country - for which this National Assembly, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party, has decided - to stop double taxation? The burden has ceased that they are taxed both in the country where they work and in the country where they live, despite the fact that we are all one big country, as you like to stress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. You have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u77	Your Honor! I will say as much as I know and as much as they have prepared me in our ministry and also in the Ministry of Finance regarding your question. Thus, the Income Act has consistently applied the principle of taxation of residents of Slovenia on the world income rather than residents of Slovenia on the source of income in Slovenia. Such a system, which is established practically in all developed countries, is based on the assumption that natural persons resident in a given country also benefit from the public goods provided by the State of residence and it is appropriate that they also pay taxes in that country. In certain cases, when a natural person gains income in one country but is resident in another country, there may be situations where the right to tax a certain income is owned by both countries. With a view to eliminating such double taxation, and I personally agree with you in this objection, double taxation of the same income is an integrated method in the Income Act to eliminate double taxation of this income. In a specific case where residents are employed in Austria, the Income Act allows the tax payable by the resident of Slovenia in Slovenia to be reduced by the tax paid in Austria. If this income is taxed in Austria at a lower rate than in Slovenia, the resident of Slovenia, who achieves this income, must pay the difference to the rate that would be applied to the taxation of his income when he is taxed only in Slovenia. In this way, the tax on income from employment of residents of Slovenia is generally the same, regardless of whether the resident gains income in Slovenia or abroad, which ensures the same position of all natural persons who are tax residents of Slovenia. The same principle of eliminating double taxation of the income of its residents is followed by Slovenia when concluding bilateral conventions to avoid double taxation of income and property with other States Parties. The same principle has also been applied in the Convention with the Republic of Austria, which has been in force since 1999. Slovenia currently has 36 conventions, in which the tax deduction method described is used as a method to prevent double taxation. This method also applies to conventions concluded with, for example, Germany, Hungary and Croatia. Only in the Convention with the Republic of Italy, which Slovenia is still using as a successor to the Convention concluded between the former Yugoslavia and the Republic of Italy, is the exemption method whereby these revenues are taxed in a specific case only in Italy. Even in this case, Slovenia has already ratified a new convention, the Slovenian-Italian Convention, which Italy has not ratified at this time when I speak. It follows that Slovenian citizens are not double-taxed because all mechanisms allowing the elimination of double taxation are adopted. In Slovenia, some measures have also been taken to facilitate the situation of non-Slovenian residents, since the Income Act has established an arrangement to allow workers abroad to apply the costs of transport to work and nutrition during work if they are not obliged to do so by their employer outside Slovenia in the way that is the case in Slovenia. At the end of December 2006, a representative of the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration met with representatives of the civil initiative Apache, which advocates the position that Slovenian residents working in Austria should be taxed even in Austria. These agreements continue this year as well. The next meeting is scheduled for 2 February. However, in view of the full membership of our country in the European Union, honourable Member, we would like to point out that, from this point of view, membership in the European Union does not restrict in any way the rights of the Member States to tax the income of natural persons in accordance with their domestic legislation. And that's the most I can tell you right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you. Do you want to set up or request a follow-up next time or already? As you wish, once or next time, when will Mr. Bajuk be present? Okay. Mrs Marjetka Uhan will ask the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Economy, who is not at the moment, apologized.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik, my question concerns the bioethanol project and renewable energy sources. In Slovenia we are meeting one of the hottest winters, which we measure temperatures, and otherwise temperatures are rising elsewhere in Europe. If scientists had differed in their views on climate warming some time ago, it is now clear that the atmosphere is heating up and that one of the main causes is the excessive consumption of fossil fuels. In Slovenia we have been talking about renewable energy sources for a long time, and the Government has also set up a project group for sustainable energy and hydrogen energy. In this regard, I would like to ask you: What about the adoption of bioethnol? The question is now, in particular, when the Ormož Sugar Factory is sealed off when sugar beet production is thus shut down. Slovenia has committed to include 5% of biofuels in transport by 2010. One of these products, bioethanol, could also be produced in this factory, and this would also allow farmers to grow another culture. 6,000 hectares are waiting for an opportunity or a new culture - it will be a cucumber or another culture. I ask: What has the Government done so far in this regard? I also wonder: Would it not make sense to think about a greater reimbursement of excise duties if the share of biofuels in energy increased? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. Your question, however, touches on a number of areas. First of all, I would just like to point out that the sugar beet growers who have produced sugar beet for the Ormož Sugar Factory all these years will remain eligible for this regional payment of EUR 332 per hectare. In addition, aid for diversification should no longer be granted in the case of sugar beet production. This was also the content of the answer or discussion by the National Assembly on one of the questions sent. I would also like to say that the process of ecological recovery in the restructuring process will be carried out within the framework of existing legislation and monitoring and that the Ormož Sugar Factory has already paid a great deal of attention to environmental burdens by the time it produced sugar. And here we have to commend her for her behavior. Now you're asking some questions about biofuels. Perhaps you would start by having the most technological possibilities in the Republic of Slovenia for producing biodiesel or pure, raw vegetable oil as alternative fuel. The basic raw material for such production is oil obtained by cooling the oilseed and sunflowers. However, further technological chemical processing is then necessary for the final production of biodiesel. However, the production of biodiesel is subject to raw materials produced on agricultural areas in the Republic of Slovenia or imported raw materials. Last year, around 2,500 hectares were planted with an oil grain in Slovenia. According to the data available to our agricultural colleagues, we have a potential of 6 to 7 thousand hectares that are suitable for oilseed production. It is true, however, that in terms of a sustainable way of producing biofuels of the first generation, these are the cultures with which we are essentially competing with areas for food production, so we would like to pay increasing attention to those fuels of the second generation, which are being distilled in this case of bioethanol from fibre materials, from cellulose, that is to say wood, to make use of Slovenian forest mass for these purposes, not to go the first time, but to be the fuels of the first generation of maize, even wheat, that I am not talking about some other agricultural plants. When you asked about the motivation to buy, I would like to say that the key reasons why quotas are still low in Slovenia today are certainly in the production price of biodiesel on the market. The price of biodiesel in retail sales, despite the fact that biodiesel is exempt from excise duty, is still not competitive with conventional fossil diesel, is already approaching under certain conditions the price of fossil diesel, but if we want the interest of buyers to increase, then the retail price is estimated to be at least 10 % higher by those involved. One way to accelerate the use of biofuels is to raise awareness of customers, but when they are introduced. The experience of customers is that it is easier to obtain them at an appropriate price, because the transition to biodiesel for most users is a novelty, as well as a risk to their vehicle from this point of view, so doubts and mistrust in the use of biodiesel are somehow understandable. However, we have an instrument called the Excise Law, which has now entered into force since 1.1.2007, bringing about some significant changes. One of the changes is that biofuels used for propulsion are classified as excise products and no longer exempt from excise control. Formally, the excise duty will be 0, but at the same time, the customs authority will monitor the movement, production, processing, storage, etc. At the same time, it is considered that the beneficiary has the right to reimbursement of the excise duty paid or to exemption from excise duty in proportion to the proportion of the added product, but the proportion of biofuels imported must not exceed 5%. The financial sector is formally responsible and our portfolio will, through the regulation, assist in the substantive work of this exemption from excise duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u83	I'd like to ask you one more question. He's probably more concerned with the Minister of Economy, and if you can't answer me, I'd ask Minister Vizjak to answer me orally next time. What did the Government specifically do to show, for example, the interest of Petrol as a state company in investing in the Ormož factory? Would greater production of these crops, crops suitable for biofuels, also cost production? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you. You will receive an answer at the next meeting. Mrs Majda Shirca will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u85	Dr. Rupel, you are considered an open man, so I expect you to answer my question today, because you have not yet confirmed or rejected the statement made by the journalist of the Evening newspaper, who wrote somewhere, which the media have concluded is that you should be more than happy to reject an interview with the foreign minister of Romania when she was visiting Slovenia. The journalist Vecera had an interview with the foreign minister at the time, but after lunch or dinner, in short, after associating with the foreign minister, Mr Rupel, the interview fell out, perhaps because of your warnings to the foreign minister that the journalist is the evening, I quote, "Soviet Communist and anarchist". You also mentioned his wife and said the embassy did a bad job when it failed to check on the journalist in question. In other words, you have mutilated, insulted the journalist and were supposed to be maligning the journalist and his wife and can also be prevented from doing so, especially if that was the case, by the law, and by some law that speaks of freedom of expression in Slovenia. On the journalist's written question, it was asked to you, sent, you did not answer. Of course I expect you to answer to the public and me right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u87	Madam Members, I thank you from the heart for this interesting question, which really surprised me. What it contains as a conjecture or a subterranean, of course it does not. To prevent me from interviewing the Romanian Foreign Minister, I don't even remember when he visited us. It's probably been a while. To prevent an interview for the Maribor Evening, that's what your question says, it wasn't. Of course, I do not have the strength or potential to do so. Circumstances that promote such questions are unknown to me and are not comprehensible to me. On the other hand, it is generally possible to say that an interview can be made impossible primarily by those who are supposed to be interviewed, that is to say that they do not want to be interviewed, or that it can be disabled by an editor, journalist, censor or something like that, because I do not believe that it would happen. I've been denied interviews many times, even when you were at work on RTV. However, I must say that it has been very rare to deal with such cases since we have democratic power. Personally, I do not remember or take a special interest in such cases. However, in order to prevent the Slovenian foreign minister from interviewing a Romanian foreign minister, who I do not know very well about, and I do not know anything about his wife, this is simply not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your answer. Complementary question? Comrade Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u89	Mr. Rupel, I asked if you believed that you had appointed the journalist mentioned in the paper to be a Soviet-Anarchist Communist, which would not have led to this interview. But, as I understand it, you're saying that none of this was happening, even though it was late in 2005, that you didn't remember and you didn't have any fingers at all. It is true that you must understand that the circumstances are more than justified for me to ask the question whether the embassies, either here or outside the Republic of Slovenia, require that journalists be checked if it was as recorded in this record. It is said that embassies must check the journalist and thus the circumstances that may lead to an interview or not. But that I doubt it, and of course I conclude, and I'm glad that if you deny that it was all that, you have to understand. I'm reading, not for the first time, here's an interview by a journalist and former editor of the Saturday annex, which describes exactly how censorship works. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Which you say she's been at work since before, she's out of work. [[...]] You've had it at lunch again, I'm talking about the former editor of Saturday's annex, you've called for him to calm down, because in that famous style it's not worth having a war with the ruling option, if you change something already but on Saturday's annex, otherwise John Janša will really fix it and come to your senses, because otherwise the changes will happen another way. I'm just quoting from your lunch when you called for the discipline of a journalist who, of course, is no longer at work, because in the middle of Saturday's annex, a lot of things happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you for the supplementary question. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u91	I thank you for your question, which I have no doubt is well-intentioned. I have no reason to think that it is not well-intentioned, but I hardly know the connection between what you are saying and what you are actually reality. When it comes to Saturday's annex, when it comes to people who aren't supposed to be where they used to be, I don't realize such statements, I would ask you, if you're already saying that you're telling me exactly what someone is, where he said, and with his words, you're not turning these words. As it is said, I allow a lot of things to happen, but they happen without my knowledge, I deal mainly with external matters and you have the wrong impression when it comes to these assumptions that you should go into the autonomy of journalists or editors. I was myself once an editor and author of publicist contributions, and I remember these times, I would say, with bitterness and a certain concern and disdain, so I am not prepared to participate in such manipulations as once did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. She's a Shirtz colleague, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u93	The Rules of Procedure allow me to hold a debate in the National Assembly, for example, on freedom of expression. I am also taking advantage of this business opportunity to give Mr Rupl an answer. It was an interview where, as Ervin Hladnik Milharčič says, you called the editors to their senses, the title of the text is "Rupel has written in me as an open man who understands the media as an instrument of political power and does not conceal it". This is the text published on 17 June 2006. However, that the issue of the media is also strongly touched by the foreign minister, many statements that speak of the fourth branch of government are said to be journalism, which, like any authority, is supposed to be controlled, despite the fact that on Saturday the minister said that in the record as a guest pen, which is very often that there is no censorship in Slovenia. It's not really necessary to have any more because it's already been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u94	Mrs. Shirca, you must know for yourself that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Procedurally, at the time of the complementary and basic question, it is only possible to request a general debate within the framework of the National Assembly on your question of the Member State. You didn't ask for that. I ask all future debaters if they stick to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and do not exploit it in the style of their colleague, Shirce. The word for asking the question is mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. Dear Minister and Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! During the 1990s, intensive research began on drugs to prevent cervical cancer. In September 2006, the International Association for IPC Papilloma viruses in Prague finally confirmed the effectiveness of protective vaccination against cervical cancer. Given that breast cancer is the second most common form of cancer in women in Slovenia and that a quarter of patients under the age of 55 still die and about 200 a year are sick, it has also aroused the hope in the general public that in the coming years the number of patients with this disease will slowly begin to decline. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian public, it also reflected the fact that the price of a set of three vaccinations is between €350 and €380 and that vaccination will only be possible with self-payment. Thus, the number of vaccinated girls between the ages of 12 and 16, which is the optimal age for vaccination, depends mainly on the social situation of the family or the individual. The mayor of the municipality of Comanda quickly identified himself and proposed that approximately €6260 should be provided for the vaccination of eight-year-olds and nine-year-olds in the municipal budget, which was adopted by the municipal council. If the same decision were to be taken in Maribor, the price would be significantly higher, around EUR 400,000, given that the population of girls should be vaccinated around 1100. While this gesture by the mayor of command is welcome, I would like to point out that this means that local communities are taking on commitments that I believe the state and vaccination should allow all girls or women who would or would choose to take on this preventive measure. I think it's a highly uneven treatment, so I'm asking you: Why is vaccination against cervical cancer not included in compulsory health insurance rights? Please provide arguments for such a decision. Do you intend to arrange this differently by redistributing it over the next two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much for the question, Mr President. Nice to meet you, too! This is a very important issue that has become even more topical than in the second half of last year, when this finding was made in the global sense that it is actually a vaccination that can prevent cervical cancer. The World Health Organisation on this human papilloma virus vaccination is of the view that the decision to initiate vaccination must be based on data on the burden of cervical cancer, the level of risk of exposure to infections with different human papilloma genotypes and the cost-effectiveness of the programme and, last but not least, obstacles to the implementation of the programme. This does not change the fact that this option must also be taken into account in the context of compulsory vaccination. According to our information, other Member States of the European Union are still collecting the necessary professional information before vaccination against human papilloma viruses is included in vaccination, whose implementation is fully covered by public health insurance. This is a vaccine, which has also received a marketing authorisation on a global scale only recently, and therefore more professionally supported data are needed for the introduction of mass routine vaccination. It is therefore necessary to collect key data and information first for professionally supported decision-making on the introduction of routine HPV vaccination in Slovenia. These are mainly data on the burden of infection with different genotypes of human papilloma viruses in Slovenia, data on the burden of cervical cancer in Slovenia, data on the effectiveness of available HPV vaccines in preventing this cancer or long-term HPV genotype infections, which pose a high risk for cervical cancer, as well as data on other HPV-related cancers, as well as a review of the results of studies and the acceptability of vaccination. However, the inclusion of each new vaccination has its own specific course in this regular annual vaccination programme, for which funds are provided from compulsory health insurance. This inclusion shall take place in accordance with a specific procedure applicable to the introduction of all new services. The Institute for Health Protection, which in this case is a competent professional institution after obtaining all relevant information - not yet available - has prepared a proposal for a hearing in the Health Council. If, or when, on a proposal from the profession, the Health Council places this vaccination among the priority services, the necessary health insurance funds shall also be provided in order to do so. And we'll do it in our best interests. However, vaccination measures against human papilloma virus will be provided, if or when vaccination is introduced into a routine vaccination programme, from compulsory health insurance, as is the case with all other vaccinations that are the right of compulsory health insurance. I can provide you with, or in the case of a positive opinion by both the profession and the health council, I will commit myself to introducing this vaccination during mandatory vaccinations in Slovenia, taking into account all the guidelines and expert opinions of other countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thanks for the answer. Complementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you. I am aware that this vaccination, like any vaccination, has advocates and opponents. What could be read in public opinion, either from the findings of the Institute for Health Protection of the Slovenian Association for Oncological Gynaecology, would nevertheless indicate that risks are less side effects than what is open. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. In view of the fact that at least 80% of women should be vaccinated at that optimum age, if this chain or this cycle of transmission of infections is to be severed, this is nevertheless an indication that it would be good to insist on general vaccination and free vaccination if there were no evidence in the profession that this vaccination would not have the effect that it would have. However, I would like to point out that in the coalition contract you have warned in that substantive work that health and health care is public goods and that prevention plays an important role in this, including in the cost of treatment later on, if we are not talking about the worst loss of life and that it is also about ensuring reproductive health for the fertility of a very important part of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much for this additional question or debate. Actually, we agree with everything. What I said before, you've just somehow confirmed it. We will require the profession in particular to provide in fact clear guidelines for such vaccination. For now, it shows everything in this direction that such vaccination will be necessary. And if the profession decides to do so, of course we will be happy to help us obtain funds to carry out this vaccination as a compulsory vaccination. However, taking this into account, once again, also those things that will be said by the expert and which, on the one hand, also contain some of the negative aspects of vaccination, in particular the vaccination that we are now talking about, where these types of viruses are so different that one vaccination protects against one group of viruses or genotypes in a relatively narrow circle or does not fully cover the problem. Well, given all this, it's still a bit of a dilemma. However, we will make every effort to implement this vaccination within the framework of European standards and European solutions in Slovenia in the future. So far, as I have said, no country has accepted this compulsory insurance vaccination. Thus, I think it would be good to be patient here, but in any way to bring the matter to the healthcare board as soon as possible, which will then give a final opinion. But I will, if such a finding is found that this protection is adequate and sufficient and only vaccination is dangerous, then I will gladly support it and I think I can guarantee it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you. The next question will be posed by the mag. Borut Saiovic, Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, Minister! My question to the Minister for Space and the Environment concerns watercourses. With watercourses, chandeliers, and rods, we have more problems in the congregation and in the ministries, probably from year to year. The weather changes are likely to be no longer an exception, but they will become a constant. That is why I think that more resources should be devoted to this watercourse, and on the other hand more attention. The Ministry of Environment and Space and its relevant institutions are primarily responsible for these watercourses. All the municipal infrastructure, which is just along the watercourses, and this is a common phenomenon in Slovenia in narrow Alpine valleys, is subjected in the next step to the disruptive operation of these compounds. Most of the time, due to inadequate rehabilitation of watercourses, municipalities suffer severe damage to municipal infrastructure mainly on roads. From my congregation, in the past, I can tell you an example of a 35 million - million - dollar - worth dropout on a watercourse costing two to three million. There must be no interference between the municipality and the watercourses under the law. When I told my employees, as a young and naive mayor last month, that, for God's sake, they should fix one of the watercourses, because in the next step they would take the road and the chapel in one case, and in the other case the wood factory and part of the house, they replied that I would then meet with the water inspector. I therefore believe that in order to avoid such cases, we should seek a solution to the establishment of a partnership between the municipality and the Ministry in order to approach such a minor error together with common funds. I think that then, in a global way, it would be viewed for the country and also for the budget of such damage for the less and less. I therefore ask from this city the Minister for Space and the Environment: In establishing this partnership between the Ministry and the congregation, are there any possible solutions for future solutions before the damage is caused to us to engage in them together? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you for the question. Minister Podobnik, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, I would like to answer you in two parts. Perhaps I would start with this second part where you ask me whether I am in favour of establishing a partnership between the municipalities, the department I run, and the public water regulators to make the rehabilitation of these watercourses quicker, more efficient, and more cost-effective in the long term. My answer is yes. How's that? As a rule, the Minister may react through laws and regulations. Here I inform you that changes to the Water Act have already been prepared, in which one of the key issues will also be the compliance of public services in the field of water with European Union legislation. We currently have a solution in Slovenia to grant these services, but the principle of a free market for services in the European Union is such that these services will have to be transferred to services that will then be obtained in the free market. Therefore, as part of this direction, our Ministry is exploring the possibility of setting up one or more public water companies, perhaps even going in the direction of some kind of maintenance department within our ministry. We are considering this possibility, and then at the local level, in cooperation with the municipalities, as you mention, especially later with the provinces, I stress at the provincial level, it would allow the most suitable water operators to be found if we could say similar to municipal companies or other operators of local public services. This solution would undoubtedly lead to a cheaper form of investment. Last but not least, this would bring us closer to the local problem of addressing the harmful effects of high waters. The law is ready, we will present it to the public in a short time, and we will also open ourselves up for public discussion, as well as comments and criticisms or additional proposals. Now the financial aspect of your question. True, financial resources for this activity are still under-optimal despite growth in recent years. First of all, I would like to remind you that, on the basis of the current Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters, it is necessary for the municipality to be entitled to the means to remedy accidents when it uses its own resources for this purpose, the budget of the municipality of at least 1.5% of the budget for the current year. It is true, however, that municipalities can also use their own resources at legal level to ensure that the same facilities do not re-emerge damage, I stress, at the same facilities, to implement preventive measures that go beyond the scope of simply eliminating the consequences of the accident. You wouldn't be held here by an inspection for your decision. And some more information. In order to remedy the damage to local infrastructure facilities, it was also partly for certain buildings on the winding system, watercourses and so on, and mainly for municipal and other roads. In 2005 and 2006, we dedicated €6.8 million to the municipality to remedy the consequences, which is 1.63 billion Slovenian tolars, if I use this comparison. For 2005, there were 950 million tolars and in 2004 there were 678 million tolars. I must also say that, for the purposes laid down by the rules in the field of public finances, this 1.5% of their budget reserve, almost one billion Slovenian Tolars were earmarked in 2005, so the municipalities took advantage of their position. We also have a resource called water economic public service, for this purpose we have €1.5 billion of Slovenian tolars and €6.4 million in 2007. And there's another source, and this is a water fund. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] For the public benefit of the work, smaller investment maintenance works on water infrastructure, mainly carried out by concessionaires, were provided with EUR 947 million in 2006, i.e. EUR 3.9 million. [[...]] This is a very high amount, and this year we are planning 413 million or 1.7 million euros. However, in order to complete the removal of the consequences of the storms in 2004 and the high level of payment for the high-water embankments of Mura, it will be difficult for us to fully implement everything we have put into the original plan this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you. Complementary question? Comrade Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the legislative initiatives and solutions you are preparing, but these matters will not work in practice until we have made a substantial amount of money available to this area. Let's just say that some chandelier stream in a cramped village near houses doesn't recover within two years of the storm, it seems to me that much. You need to understand people who live by the waters, are scared and worried. They're afraid to listen to every weather forecast. That is why I think that more needs to be done at the Ministry and that the municipalities should also be involved, so that at least the most critical cases that are in sight, we all take priority together and, of course, resolve them in a timely manner. Thank you for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A nice greeting for my esteemed colleagues and ministers, or Minister! On 28 February this year it entered into force or will enter into force, I am sorry, into force of the Novel of the Law on Social Protection. So, the end of the month is about to begin. Regardless of all the warnings of the Slovenian National Party, as well as the profession, the law has, in fact, extended more than restrictively to the social sphere of a large number of citizens and citizens of our country, those people who are in fact most dependent on the State's assistance. Your predecessor, Minister Drobnič, did not hide that his single parents were not according to age, and that everything in the field of politics must be done in order to appreciate and strive in our space for so-called perfect families, even at all costs. But the fact remains, single parent families are usually those families that are socially disadvantaged, affected by the status of social poverty. The Social Protection Act, with recent amendments, further intervened and made the situation of these deprived families more difficult. In this context, the Honourable Minister, let me mention just one example of a single mother receiving financial social assistance with one child receiving maintenance from her father. This novel provides that the income of the family is to be considered as income if it is greater than the fights of 14,778 Slovenian tolars, or EUR 61.76, since it is considered that the child has the means of survival, his own means of survival. I ask: Does 61 and a few euros really allow a child to survive a month? 14.778 Slovenian tolars, if we can imagine. In addition, in this case, applicants for financial social assistance are also refusing an allowance for single parent families. This means that it will be significantly harder for this family to spend a month than under old law or old law before changes. Allow me just one more piece of information. If the maintenance is greater than 61 and several euros more, the full calculation shall be EUR 61.67. However, in the event that a child has €83.46 or £20 000, the mother is therefore deducted from the allowance for cash social assistance for a child of €61.67. So, according to the new law, the mother was harmed for [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u111	Given that the case relates to the Social Protection Act, I would like to point out that new amendments to the Social Protection Act are also envisaged this year, and we will also examine such cases as you mentioned, because we know that the money social assistance is given to the people most needed to do so, especially those who do not have the means to support basic survival. This new proposal, which we are preparing now, should not harm a person or a case, as you state, regardless of the differences, the single parent family, or the two - parent family. That is why we will also take such cases into account when preparing new legislation. However, a new law on social benefits or all benefits from public funds is being drawn up and, under this law, we will also introduce a fairer system for receiving financial social assistance or all the benefits that an individual or a family can obtain. The Social Protection Act is foreseen in July and we will also consider these proposals in order to avoid such failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Minister, I appreciate that the Ministry will undertake a re-examination of this law, which has severely damaged those who, as I have already said, are most dependent on the State's assistance. You said we were supposed to recast the Social Protection Act in July. But the changes confirmed by this National Assembly, then under Mr Drobnič's ministry, come into force on 28 February, which is less than a month from now. And from February until new changes are adopted in the National Assembly, these people will have to survive. Almost EUR 400 will decrease to 200 and several euros after this change. Now I ask you: Can such a child have a decent life? On 28 February this Act shall enter into force. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has set the price of 61.67 euros. The decision of the Constitutional Court from the beginning of 2006 makes it clear and clear that the Ministry must determine the amount, the amount or minimum, which should allow for independent survival. Is it true that €61 for a child is the amount that allows him to survive alone without the help of his family? Allow another matter in this context, which I will mention, family helpers are the second category that this law has strongly hit, past the Constitutional Court's decision. Are you also preparing changes in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you. I'm asking for an additional answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you for that supplementary question. Maybe I wasn't clear enough before. This issue will be dealt with in more detail by the Law on Public Resources Procedures, which will be more equitable and will be made earlier in the Government or in the National Assembly, where the current Economic Institute is preparing calculations to avoid such cases. We therefore expect that this Law on Public Resources Procedures will make it possible for the resources acquired by an individual or those eligible to be more equitable to individuals and that the resources will come into the hands of those who really need it. We are also deciding on two systems or existing scales or a method of weightings, but it is now up to the Institute of Economics to avoid such cases as you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I, too, will take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure and to ask Members and Members to give their support to my proposal for a wider debate on the Minister's response tomorrow, as I assess that these matters concerning one or the other laws will obviously receive a new bill of protection, which will also take care of the financial transactions now covered by the Social Protection Act, and that other laws, to mention the Maintenance Act, then the Children's Allowance Act, in short, all these laws are not related to each other, it would be very reasonable to have a broader discussion of the answer or the question in the National Assembly. I reiterate that this is an important fact that will be revealed on 28 February 2007, which is less than a month from now, respected colleagues and colleagues. When will the new law be in force to ensure payment of certain social transfers from public funds, or in particular those amendments to the Social Protection Act, when will one or the other law enter into force or be considered in the National Assembly? On 28 February 2007, these women or these parents will have to survive with more than 100 euros less due to the law proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, due to the law approved by the government coalition in this House. It is not fair, dear colleagues and colleagues, so I say once again, whether the promises of a new minister or anyone else by the government are that we will get another law that will ensure that social transfers are paid more justly. I simply don't believe any more, because we have adopted these laws in this House over the past two years. But it has proved to be true for all marriages that they go to the worst, especially to the detriment of people. The Social Protection Act was also a law that, according to the Minister's promises, would ensure that he would be, I don't know, more just. To whom? To the government, because she's saving up the poor more.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The next question will be raised by colleague Josip Bajc, the Minister of the Interior, who is not here today. It's your call, Comrade Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will ask an oral question and I expect to receive an oral answer at the next meeting by the Minister of the Interior. At the time of the adoption and consideration of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we sought solutions in the field of the protection of minors and the possibility of allowing them to enter the premises after a certain hour of drinking. In this regard, we have also adopted an amendment to Article 21 of this Law. At that time or since the entry into force of this Act, we have received information that some economic operators do not comply with the provisions of this Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and concerning restrictions on the entry of minors after 24 hours into alcoholic beverages. For this reason, I ask the Minister of the Interior: To what extent has the police exercised control over the implementation of Article 21, paragraph 2, of the Law since the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace? How many violations have been detected after surveillance? How much fine was said? Has a repetition of such an offence been found by the same economic operator? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you, too. You will receive an answer in accordance with your expectations. Your next question will be raised by Mr Bevk only to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! My question to Minister Rupl is related to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage. Already in 1972, exactly 35 years ago, the Unesca General Conference adopted the Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. Almost all countries in the world have acceded to this Convention, and up to today, 830 sites have been added to the World Heritage List. At its 32nd General Conference, in October 2003, UNESCO adopted a convention on the protection of intangible cultural heritage, which was designed as an addendum to this Convention. Culture is manifested not only in material forms, in objects, objects, but also through unacceptable elements. They are passed from generation to generation by language, music, theatre, behavior, gesture, custom, scheme and all kinds of other forms of intervention, and also through the works and places from which these ideas originate. In 2005, the Ministry of Culture prepared a draft starting point for an organised approach to the protection of cultural heritage and natural values in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the 1972 Unesco Convention. The government then adopted these starting points last year, and at the 5th point of these starting points there is also a chapter on the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage. The Convention entered into force in April 2006. It is also stated in the Government's works that the Republic of Slovenia must ratify the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage as soon as possible. The review of the Government programme shows that this procedure is not foreseen until December 2007. Given the usual delays, the question of when this ratification will take place on the agenda of the National Assembly may not be possible until 2008-2012. This would not be good, as the state could not carry out the tasks set out in the baselines. I therefore propose, Mr Minister, that the ratification procedure of the Convention on the Protection of Irrelevant Cultural Heritage should be continued as soon as possible, accepted by the Government and submitted to the National Assembly for admission as possible. Slovenia has a lot of options for this prestigious list of world heritage, where we have only the Škocjan Caves and four monuments on the trial list, namely the Partizan Hospital Franja, the classic Kras, the Bohinj Fužinar Mountains and the heritage of the town of Idrija, which is connected to mercury, also comes up with a proposal regarding unfathomable cultural heritage. For this current period, let me mention only customs such as ptujski kurentice and the Church's Law Department, as well as other similar things. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you, colleague Bevk. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u123	Your Honor! Thank you for your initiative. Surely Slovenia has a number of headlines that could be used to make our country more recognizable abroad, especially at a time when we will preside over the European Union. So, I think your initiative is meaningful and timely. Let me say that this convention is, of course, included in the government programme. It is a normative programme of government work for 2007, but it depends on the Ministry of Culture when we get it in, so to speak, final processing. The whole type of ratification seems to be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' debt, but in fact it is a relatively small part of our ministry. I will take this initiative, if you allow me, to pass it on to my colleague Simoniti, or at the first opportunity I will warn the Minister for Culture that it is necessary to hurry with this ratification and I hope that I will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you, Minister. The following question is raised by colleague Bogdan Barovic to the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you, Prime Minister. In the recent period, the media has uncovered suspicious drugstores that many of us have known about so far. Unfortunately, none of the competent ones in this area have studied the content satisfactorily. Obviously, in our view, some authorities in this country do not act as they should, so unfortunately they reveal suspicious content by journalists. Specifically. We have learned from the media that at the expense of the money we pay for medicines, some pharmacists have visited the world. The director of the Žalski drugstore Lidija Pavlovčič said on TV that she was dead cold that they went to Mexico, I stress to Mexico, to see the business of the pharmacy. Of course, we wonder what we could see in Mexico so important that without it we could not do our job well in Slovenia and in our Slovenian pharmacies. And some of these exotic countries went to see the pharmacists, as they say from the past. As it all appears, it was a tourist trip that Velodrogeria, such as Chemofarmation, Salus, as well as Lek, could finance. Not out of charity, of course. Companies know well that the pharmacists will then be more happy and enthusiastic about their medications. It is also questionable why some mayors or their wives had to take part in such trips. Why am I saying this? Because you know the congregations own the pharmacy. And the congregations call it the trail of the pharmacy. So the pharmacy kind of bribes its supervisors. Maybe, I don't know. Did the Mayor report such trips and such valuable gifts as a rating? That's a question, too. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Dear Minister, I would like to ask you: What does the Government intend to do in this regard, what do the competent authorities that should investigate it do? When the pharmacy goes into business, what does the Court of Auditors do? In addition, I am interested in: When, though, will you issue the instructions we have been waiting for a year to make the medicines without a prescription available in any store that has an employed pharmaceutical technique? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This means that if this were to happen, the price of the medicine and at least partially allowing the current cartel to compete, I would stress, the drug cartel. [[...]] Thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much for that question. Now I have to say that what you found out about a specific case, I also somehow figured out these things or learned from the media. We were not directly aware of this particular case in the Žalec at any time. Otherwise, it was no different to find any suspicion of illegal crimes in pharmacies. We haven't received these direct reports. We, too, are not a law enforcement agency, we are not competent to investigate certain misdemeanours. However, such research shall be required to introduce and investigate, in accordance with the law, the competent law of the law, the law enforcement authorities on the basis of applications and their assessments. And in this case, I think it's already gone. We are confident at the Ministry, and so am I, personally, if there is any reasonable suspicion that the illegal practices of pharmacies will be carried out by these law enforcement authorities. If the Ministry of Health is requested in the proceedings for certain information and in any other way, the law enforcement authorities will respond and cooperate. Nor do we represent the founder or the owner of the pharmacy, what you have already said in the question, because according to the applicable legislation in the field of medical or pharmacy activities, the owners of the municipality or individuals with concessions. I must say that in such and similar initiatives I always like to remember some witch hunts in the past, I am not saying that this is the same thing, but they have been very tragic or infamous for witch hunters. Mostly. There were few real events. However, in this regard, I do not wish to say that this is not a problem of any kind, and I think that, as a ministry and as a minister, we, in investigating this, will also cooperate conscientiously. Perhaps a few more sentences relating to the implementation of the Health and Health Insurance Act in the implementation of compensatory schemes. We are preparing, under the Health Act, the exercise of administrative supervision in some pharmacies, where, in addition to other matters relating to the provision of pharmacy services, we should also check the fulfilment of the legal obligations in the transmission of data and other legal obligations that pharmacies must fulfil. As regards the business of shops intended to sell certain authorised pharmaceuticals with pharmaceutical techniques, medicinal products are available in the public agency for medicinal products and medical devices in the preparation of a list of those products which would be authorised for sale in such shops and will be soon, of course, in accordance with the applicable legislation. We have also committed ourselves to this possibility by law, which we have all adopted here. And a list of medicines that will be available in these pharmaceutical stores will also be available shortly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you. Complementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I understand your answer, which is very pragmatic and legally based, but still. First time. Do you at the Ministry receive any professional evaluation from such or other advice? Are you, will you, or will you ever be given a professional basis by pharmacists to find out, for example, in Mexico, how they operate there, what would be good for us? And a second time. Or, lastly, it's not you, and it's not your fault, but I admit here that you're swallowing the well at the expense of expensive drugs. Once again, have you received any expert reviews in the past, experts from pharmacies around the world, how they operate there, and how good it would be for us to do business? And secondly, I emphasize once again, you know that you, the one who, lastly, is not to blame, will not be obliged to devour the well. I'll give you a comparison of only the ratio of a health home to a hospital. They're all connected, we're all connected to them, one is in your care, the other is in the care of the congregations. I understand that you also understand the law and see that the congregations are the ones who care for medical activities, and I will give comparisons to health care, and you will care for the hospital. But you know, in the hospital, you know, you get fired, you get a prescription for drugs that are free, and some are very expensive. This is a question and an answer I also expect from you, which on the one hand is to help you, in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u130	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u131	I also answered that part in the first part. In any case, I would like to reiterate that there is actually no responsibilities that can also be subjective, as regards certain health developments; and also at the final stage for action at the primary level. Now it is an area that belongs to the health system in general, even though it is a direct responsibility to the founder or the owner. And whenever I have, or if I have, in the past any clue, a report or suspicion of any similar matter as it has now occurred in this pharmacy, I would act with administrative supervision. I have all the power and every opportunity to do so, and I will do so in the future if that happens. And in this case, I think it will also be necessary to introduce administrative control from our side. I will introduce administrative supervision, as I have already said, in other pharmacies, particularly with regard to the implementation of compensatory schemes. I don't think it's a particular concern on this side that we don't try to settle some of the issues that are precisely in the case of controls, both state, public and private, concessionary, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] concessionaires are too small or the frequency that the number of controls carried out is too small. [[...]] I must say that this year we have earmarked more resources for these controls, including for regular controls, not for those reported at the time of individual possible violations. However, it is difficult to continue to judge an event until the debate is concluded, as in this particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you. The next question sent and the last question today will be posed by a mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Minister of Health. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u133	Mr. Secretary! I ask you: What will you do about the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors for the operations of the Clinic in 2005, especially since the irregularities described are repeated? The question has a rational basis for demonstrating that supervision of the use of public funds in the field of health is not working, even now that public health care providers or service providers are small. What will be more difficult to control after the wider privatisation of implementing entities because their number will increase significantly? In this regard, I also ask: Will you take the necessary steps to replace as soon as possible that part of the health management at the Clinical Center, which is responsible for the irregularities identified? Thank you very much. The question is absolutely well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you, fellow Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u136	I'm still in charge of the session. Let me give you my word. Please, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry I jumped in too fast. I'm really sorry. Of course, I hope that all the questions are well-intentioned, that there is no question that would be ill-intentioned and that is how I take all the questions, and I am particularly grateful for this question. With regard to the Court of Auditors, which actually gave a negative opinion on the operation of the Clinical Centre for 2005: all areas of business with a focus on public procurement, labour costs and drug testing have been reviewed. The drug testing area was revised for 2004 and 2005. Here are some main findings and answers to this. It was found that it was incorrect, without regard to the Public Procurement Act, to have been awarded for EUR 78 million. It's a congested condition. The reason that the procurement did not take place following public calls is that the Clinical Centre, after the implementation of the Public Procurement Act in 1998, did not join all the necessary tendering activities a few years ago. The delays in the enforcement of the law are therefore multi-annual and cannot be remedied in the short term, because there is a certain process, this is an overall development in the system such as the Clinical Centre. The new management took over the management of the Clinical Centre only in August 2005, and this guide immediately found that for most materials and services there were no professional tendering grounds. Since there were no invitations to tender, these were the consequences of many more years of problems in the past, and even because of the unproduced professional bases it was not possible to implement them, the only solution at that time was the procurement of orders during that period for the normal functioning of the hospital. Since then, the area has been intensively regulated, and I must say so. There are ten expert committees working at the Clinical Centre, together with 180 members of the medical profession who are rapidly working on the preparation of all necessary professional grounds for the successful execution of the calls. However, this procedure is not so short and is rather complicated. However, human resources changes and the reorganisation of the procurement area have already been carried out. The clinical centre will also prepare a response report for this part of the Court's report. Once again, the human resources changes that you have asked for in the last part of your question have already been implemented in this area. As far as labour costs are concerned, all the derogations found have already been eliminated during the audit phase, so no response report is required for this area. And for closure. It's a drug test. The Court of Auditors has confirmed all findings of the internal audit of the Clinical Centre, including the evaluation of the loss of revenue or injury potential; I speak as regards drug testing. It also concluded that the situation in the past has been extremely volatile and that it has improved dramatically in 2004 and 2005 as well. These are the findings that we have been able to read in this report. For 2004, the value of the potentially declining revenue was €39.1225, i.e. damage to €2500. However, for 2005, the loss of potential income in this area was no longer identified, but only an injury of EUR 2500. The Internal Audit Service evaluated the damage to all previous years, since 2000 onwards, and paid a bill to the Faculty of Pharmacy or the Faculty of Pharmacy, where the problem arose. The Court of Auditors was then satisfied with these measures and instructions adopted by the KC in 2005 and 2006 in this area, and therefore also a response report on this area, namely drug testing, is not necessary. The response report will be issued for the area I spoke about at the outset, which is said to have been higher for public procurement, where the damage mentioned in the quotations were also higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you. Complementary question, colleague Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. I am pleased that the actual responsibility of the existing management is less than what anyone untapped would know about because it took place only in autumn 2005 or the end of summer 2005. However, it is good for the public to know that these irregularities are being eliminated, in particular because of the chronic lack of funding for the functioning of the Clinical Centre and because of the high cost or price paid by the State, as well as for the health care providers to function at the appropriate level. Of course, it is not important that we also draw attention to the function of control. We hear that this internal one, of course, is also external. And I expect that the Government, through its representatives in the world of the institution, will contribute over and over again to the fact that things will go legally there, which, of course, has not been seen in the Court of Auditors' report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. In fact, there is no need for any special longer discussion in this second part. I answered the question. However, the policy of colleague Žnidaršič is, of course, properly targeted and also welcome for further procedures in the Clinical Centre itself, as it is in our common interest that these matters concerning public procurement will be regulated in the future, not only for the health sector where some things are very visible, but for all areas in the country in those frameworks that will lead to some normal action in this area. I must say that the field of public procurement at the Ministry of Health is currently being regulated in an organisational sense and that there will also be a guarantee for some changes, improvements to the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-01-29-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you once again and thank all representatives or members of the Government for the answers provided. I also conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good-bye and good luck!
