ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Please calm down. I begin the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlich, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Franz Puksič. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the first item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the seventh item and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 14th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 13 April 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are therefore moving on to a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the assembly to extend the agenda by considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office, an urgent procedure. You received an extension proposal on 20 April 2007. He wants to speak to the government's representative as a billmaker? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of their voting apparatus. Yellow light on the right. Thanks for checking in. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing that bill. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 53 votes in favour against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and is therefore an extended agenda. The assembly will be proposed by law as 7a. On Wednesday, 25 April 2007, the agenda item was considered after the final vote. I now propose to the assembly to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the plant health law, an urgent procedure. You received an extension proposal on 20 April 2007. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of that bill. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and is therefore an extended agenda. The assembly will be proposed by law as 7b. On Wednesday, 25 April 2007, the agenda item was considered after the final vote. We are now moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, and with the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 64 Members present and 59 votes against 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda - this is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u2	I ask the Member of Mr Štebet not to disturb the session and not to distribute posters around the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 28 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. On Wednesday, 25 April 2007, at 3 p.m., the Prime Minister of the ruling coalition will answer the first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Today, the Minister of Finance should also answer the unanswered parliamentary questions raised at the 24th and 25th meetings of the Assembly. However, since the Minister is justifiably absent, he will answer the questions at the next meeting. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education and Sport will answer the questions raised by Members at the 26th meeting of the assembly. Mr Aleš Gulič reported to the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, a question which does not fall within his competence, so I did not refer it to the Minister, in accordance with Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question when all the Members who have been registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and the Minister shall answer the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question and ask Members and Members to pay attention. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Transport Mag. Janez Bozič, Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Economy Mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dr Dimitrij Rupel. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. At the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, the Members of Mr Anton Kokalj and the Ambassador are mags. Majda Potrat asked questions sent to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, and to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver. Since the ministers were not present at the meeting, the MEP and the Member requested an oral reply at the next meeting of the assembly, so I will first give the floor to the ministers to answer the question. Even earlier, Mr Zagorac raised his hand, probably out of desire for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u3	You have rightly found out, Mr President-in-Office. I have a procedural proposal. I am well aware that Mr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, is a very busy man in this country. I believe in his benevolence, namely, that every Monday, now for four months, is constantly occupied and cannot answer the question of the Members. If I'm a little mean - either intentionally or unintentionally busy. But the fact is, I am expecting an answer to my own question, but not just me, as a Member, also those 2,500 people who are expecting his answer and who have really met with this problem. Therefore, the honourable President, as far as I know, may be wrong, and now you will apologize once again to Mr Bajuk, Mr Bajuk is on Wednesday in our country, says Slovenia. And given that Prime Minister Janez Janša will also answer the questions on Wednesday, I suggest that Minister Bajuk, given that he is so busy that he is probably unable on Monday, does so on Wednesday because, say, several Members - including colleague Happy Friend - we have been waiting for his very interesting answers for some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you. Given that it is a procedural proposal for Mr Bajuk to answer the question on Wednesday, I am putting the motion to a vote - or if you will excuse me, we will vote on the proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. Mr Dagutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, will now respond to Mr Anton Kokal's question about the progress of updating the entry of Slovenian citizens living incarcerated and abroad into the register of electoral law. Please. Yeah, he's not here. I'm sorry. That is why the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Zver, will answer the question of mag. Majde Potrat on the regulation of the status of counselling centres for children, adolescents and parents and counselling centres for pupils and parents. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. The founders of advisory centres in Ljubljana, Maribor, New Town and Koper are local communities. They are also a financier of these, and in Ljubljana the co-financing is also the Institute for Health Insurance, which mainly covers the health services of this institution. The centres provide staff with counselling services for children, adolescents and parents, as well as health services, diagnostics, counselling, therapy in the field of clinical psychology, defectology, psychiatry. The Education and Education Financing Act, in Article 81, lays down what it is the responsibility of the State to finance from the State budget and in Article 82, what is the responsibility of the local community to finance. Article 28 of the same law also provides for public institutions which, due to their activities, may be subject to budget funding - this set does not cover those advisory institutions which have the status, as we have already said, of institutions operating within local communities. However, in all schools, there is, in accordance with Article 84, a statutory advisory service which performs certain tasks performed by these establishments in these four local communities. These tasks are carried out by different profiles: psychologists, social educators, social workers; and schools offer to blind, visually impaired, deaf, deaf, motionless students and pupils with learning disabilities and other disabilities in the emotional and behavioural field, in accordance with the guidance decision, also the assistance of a defectologist, social educator, psychologist and so on. So under all the above options it is possible to conclude that schools and their students have sufficient professional assistance for students with problems. However, it is certainly necessary to say that despite the above, schools often turn to and work well with these advisory centres. The problem of where to put these institutions is known, of course, the reason is mainly of a financial nature, but so far at the Ministry of Education we do not foresee the adoption or financing of the activities of these institutions. Solutions can be different: whether they remain as they are - at local community level. In theory, the country might also be able to take over these activities, but it would be necessary to negotiate with local communities and, of course, to resolve some other systemic issues that arise when these activities are adopted. Perhaps there is some possibility in the perspective that we will have provincial legislation, that these entities will take over or seduce them. For the time being, we do not think about financing these institutions at the Ministry and that the local communities that are the founders of these institutions will continue to finance these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Given that today is the international day of the book and that all the events take place under the slogan "Give a Book", I will give you, Mr. Minister, so that I will not violate the procedures of the National Assembly, later hand over my book gift, which is the Divorced Language Manual for School and Daily Use, which is the most beautiful textbook. You will be able to read additional messages of this book’s gift from all of our controversy and some additional ones that will develop. But now allow me to ask you further about the answer you gave me. The representatives of the centres on which my question is addressed addressed to you in writing. However, given that extensive amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education are being announced, it would suggest that we consider how to put this activity in place, given that we are focused on finding opportunities to open the way for all young people to consult, so that we do not lose ourselves on these school tracks, when it is not the most successful, when it is not. And since you yourself have indicated that we are also dealing with the regional structure, I would ask you to consider these options, given that you have foreseen the establishment of large centres, I do not know anything else, including other educational activities. However, this is an activity that can be demonstrated by success and would call for renewed reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you. Would you like to respond, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u9	Indeed, the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education provides for the centres you discussed. And it also shows one possibility that these institutions, which obviously have problems with their status or funding, will be able to maintain their lives, especially because the need for work they are doing is increasing. But right now, I can't promise anything. The status of each of these institutions is a particular issue and subject to a specific agreement between the State, for example, and a specific local community. The general solution is not possible right now, nor is it because we have four institutions, quite different between us, and four different founders. So it is not a national problem that can be solved by some legal norm or even by law, but by the subject of the discussion, in particular us, not just us, with a specific congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you. Meanwhile, Minister of the Interior has joined us, Mr Mate. He will now answer Mr Anton Kokal's question about the progress of updating the entry of Slovenian citizens living in place and around the world into the register of electoral rights. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd apologize for this little delay. Regarding the question that was last raised to me, and unfortunately I was unable to answer it because of the foreign service journey, I can say that since the law was passed, 1244 Slovenian citizens without permanent residence in Slovenia were entered into the electoral directory in Slovenia. With the guidelines and instructions given by the Ministry of Administration to administrative units and even at the Ministry itself, we have the situation on 4.4.2007 so that we have been able to register 44.048 Slovenian nationals who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, in four months we were able to register 31,604 Slovenian citizens in the electoral directory. We are the Mother Register - of course we continue to view this as a priority to be introduced, we do what is necessary, and we also occasionally have certain problems. If we are talking about the persons still to be entered in this register, it is the number 24,000 Slovenian citizens, of which 17,593 were listed on a special list sent to administrative units with instructions on how to act, how to enter the data, and they were given a deadline of 30.6. when they have to do the work. However, data for the remaining approximately 7,000 persons should be further analysed, cleaned and then given to administrative units in order to register before being sent to the administrative unit. If I can say that in various ways we have undertaken to meet these obligations, which are related to this, we have also used diplomatic and consular representations abroad, through Slovenian and foreign media, we have called on our citizens living in this area to regulate what is necessary, in particular to give us the changed personal data or permanent residence they have. In doing so, we have been partially successful, not everywhere, but at the same time the consular missions through the foreign ministry have been instructed that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who has submitted to the embassy for any action would be very welcome if we were to report any changes in their residence in that country, so that changes could then be introduced and there would be no proper address when we are sending mail and all the other things that are necessary. That is how I think that the Ministry of the Interior has taken this work seriously under the law, and we hope that in due course we will enter all that is necessary into the electoral directory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much for this information, which was quite comprehensive. I must say that I am surprised that when the law was adopted, I myself have commented that this deadline will probably be short, given that the specificity of this work, in my opinion, is quite complex and - also the way in which the data referred to in Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act - is sent on two routes. In particular, this last part of how to obtain data on citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia does not seem so easy. In view of the numbers you have given, however, the question arises to me: Will it be possible to actually carry out most of this work in accordance with Article 2 of the Law, which deals with the six months after the entry into force of this Law? Otherwise, I propose that the Ministry propose a change in order to actually allow this to happen. I think that this would normalise the situation with regard to Slovenians around the world, who have citizenship in the Republic of Slovenia, living outside our borders. However, as I have already said, this number has given me a positive surprise, given that I know that these matters are not so simple, because some citizens of the amended data on permanent residences and other data have probably not submitted up-to-date addresses to the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I've already said that we assume that most of this work could be done by the end of the sixth month. I hope that we will also be able to arrange for these 7,000 Slovenian citizens, for whom we do not yet have everything fully prepared, as necessary, in the coming days, and then also for them. But most of the work will be done. As I said, there are over 31,000 people entered, for 17,000 there is already an appropriate instruction on the administrative unit, how the matter should be carried out, with a precise deadline until they have to do so. Thus, given the intensity of the work and the approach that has been shown in the administrative units in the workers doing so at this time, I have no particular doubt that they would not have done so within the time limit set for them. For those of us who are still collecting certain data, and I also hope that we will do so as soon as possible. If the task is not completed within six months, it will be a relatively small percentage of what we will try to solve as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you. We are now moving on to the first round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Ms Darja Lovtišar Bebler will ask the Minister of Justice, Dr Sturm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This time, I especially thank you for giving me your word. Indeed, as you know, we are one third of the members of the opposition excluded from the normal work of the National Assembly's working bodies, and therefore I must ask this question to Mr Minister Sturm here, because this is not possible for me in the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice. And by especially thanking you for this opportunity, it is not that I wanted to say that you, too, are not responsible for the fact that one-third of the Members in this National Assembly are unable to do normal work. So, Minister Šturm, on 13 April, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts was published on the Government's website. Given that the document states that the law was previously in public debate, that comments were taken into account and that it is interdepartmentally harmonised, of course, I now logically ask: What are the concrete reasons for withdrawing the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts from government proceedings? And: Does this mean that you intend to submit a proposal for a amended law to the government procedure? I also ask you: Will you, in the new bill, deviate from the concept, which you consistently enforce in other proposals of your marriage from the department for which you are responsible as Minister, that you are trying to strengthen the executive power in front of the judiciary and weaken the position of the judiciary and the judges regarding their independence and independence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you for the question raised, honourable Member. Before I answer that question, I'd like to apologize first for giving you my back in response. So it happened in connection with these transfers and with the new headquarters in the National Assembly that we were in a completely different position. So far, we've looked into each other's eyes when I was answering your question, and unfortunately, it's no longer possible. When you asked me a question, I turned and looked at you, and now I'm afraid it's no longer possible because I don't know how to answer the microphone. So, unfortunately, I will have to answer in this situation as it is, and I ask you to accept this further with understanding of knowledge. You asked why we withdrew the amendment bill, which would otherwise have arranged to propose candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts. The procedure has not yet been submitted to any government committee. The coordination of government materials and withdrawals at this stage are not a rare matter. The main reason for this was that the profession had responded intensively to the proposed changes and we concluded that it was worth listening to the profession so that it did not show any hurry. We also wanted to avoid feeling that the proposed changes were aimed at 'ad personam' to a specific holder of this state function. We wanted to make that point, so I decided to withdraw the law from the procedure. I can't tell you if he'll still be put into the procedure. Surely there is now a constitutional section on the move to investigate the matter thoroughly and also to find the right answer to the question raised by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, in a recent decision issued on 23 March 2006, said that it could be questioned whether, taking into account the provisions of the Constitution on the competence of the President of the Republic, it was permissible by law to lay down new powers for the President of the Republic. The answer to this question should first be sought by the constitutional profession. If the answer is one that will help speed up procedures, the result will be so much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that again, Mr President. Well, the hall is round, Mr. Minister, and I think I'm sure you don't tell me your back, but if I see it right, I see your profile and it's fine. On the other hand, I am very pleased that you have just stressed that in this case you will be particularly attentive to the professional’s comments on the solutions that this law is supposed to contain. Indeed, so far you have also proposed some solutions where the profession has also responded very much, but with your proposals you have pushed forward and you have also achieved confirmation of your proposals in this Parliament. For example, we know what problems you had when you agreed that the salaries of judges should be determined within the framework of the system applicable to public servants. Then, without listening to the profession, you proposed amendments to the Constitution to establish a temporary judicial mandate. After that, you have strengthened the powers of the Minister of Justice in appointing the Presidents of the Courts, so we are still without a President in a court that is the largest in this country. You have taken some other measures, which are all going in a consistent direction towards the increasing submission of the judiciary to the executive branch and the increasing impact on judicial staffing. Do you, for example, as a former constitutional judge, believe that our concern - that is, the concern of most members of the opposition - is unfounded and that our arguments do not hold? And if they don't, then I'd ask your opinion, "Why not?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you, too, for this additional question. These statements you mentioned are unfounded because you have used some of the following examples. With regard to the appointment of judges, the Court has so far fully attached its decision to the Minister of Justice. It is true that one of the candidates for the President of the Court has initiated a whole series of trials, more than 12, and in this way has also demonstrated how court proceedings can be delayed but failed in all these proceedings. In the end, all the courts gave the proposal to the Minister of Justice. That is why I reject your statement and only say that there is no need to be afraid that the division of power and thus the independence of the courts in Slovenia is at risk, because none of the solutions we have proposed is inconsistent with the solutions generally established in the European Union in the Member States of the European Union, which are considered to have the highest level of respect for human rights, the independence of the judiciary and the provision of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask Mr Bručan a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister Bručan, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian public is appalled at the ever-new and new complications with the operating tables. It is known that in a long-term process, Minister Bručan, you have done everything possible to obtain the operating tables of the supplier Maquet, even though they were more than 200 million more expensive than the tables of the second producer Triumf. Finally, you chose the Sordina tables, which were 20 million more expensive than the Triumph tables, but belong to a lower quality class. Even then, you were warned by experts and experts that it was a manufacturer whose tables even in the home country of Italy are not used by any major medical institution, and that there is a high probability that they will not bear the heavy burdens of demanding surgery. However, no one expected this to happen so soon. Tables for which the supplier has received payment in the value of two high-priced cars for each shall be broken down so often and in such a high percentage that all those in use have received repairs and services so far. The supplier even offered to switch tables at the Oncology Institute, which have not yet been in use, and it is not clear what can be done by replacing new parts with new models. In order to make the disaster even bigger, the Ministry, with the belief that it would buy the tables of Maquet, also bought the oncological institute a disinfectant for the same manufacturer's tables, although it was warned that the chamber was adapted only to his desk and rejected the chamber of the domestic manufacturer, although it was adapted to different types of operating tables. Therefore, Minister Bručan, I ask you: How many operating tables are in use after individual hospitals and how many operating tables in use have so far been broken down in hospitals that have received Sordina tables from the last purchase of operating tables? How often do services need to be used for operating tables? Why does the Ministry of Health not reject the entire shipment because of an unacceptable high percentage of malfunctions in the operating tables and demand a refund of money from suppliers? Does one of the hospitals that received Sordina's operating tables intend to purchase a table for Maquet and thus replace the tables that have already been delivered to Sordina? According to media reports, you ordered the processing of the new disinfection chamber at the Oncology Institute, so you signed a contract with Medico Engineering for 20,000 euros. I ask you this: Why have you allowed such uncoordinated supplies, and why are you inadvertently allowing the reckless use of tax money? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Finally: Has the Ministry of Health tried to determine the prices of Sordino table on the international market compared to the prices of Maqut and Triumf tables? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u27	Nice greeting, Mr. President. Thank you very much for that question about the operating tables. I must say, the answer can probably be more accurate and shorter. The operating tables of Sordino were supplied in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Procurement and Under-Laws, which was last established by the State Audit Commission. Those operating tables fully met all the technical and quality requirements of the tender documentation prepared by experts in this field, including surgeons and other medical personnel who deal with such and similar medical equipment on a daily basis. During the procurement process, the Ministry of Health received no warning of the appropriateness of the operating tables of a particular manufacturer, since until the contracting authority’s decision, it did not even know which medical equipment would be selected as the most favourable on the technical and also price basis. Thus these warnings came later, of course, when the procedure was already carried out and after the legislative procedure, by all laws and regulations a company was adopted, which then also supplied the tables. If it was a lower-quality class, it probably wouldn't hold. They are also used in other countries across Europe and there are no reservations on this side that these tables, especially because these tables were purchased in accordance with all the tender documents, would not be obtained. On the contrary, the Ministry of Health was even obliged, even to purchase this table according to the tender procedure. You asked why we don't throw these tables away and somehow we don't try to ask for money back. Here is the answer, in fact, that the operating tables were also purchased in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The second thing about the Ministry of Health and my response is that the Ministry of Health, under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, in the negotiation procedure, has already ordered the actual processing of the Decontamination Chamber at the Oncology Institute, so that the operating tables of the manufacturer Sordino can be disinfected in this chamber. Here I must stress some very important fact or detail that may have escaped you that such a chamber was supplied to the Oncology Institute in November 2004, when the previous Ministry purchased such a chamber in the belief that the selected tables would be Maquet. So this ministry did not complete or build this decontamination chamber, but it was done during the previous minister. We simply need to correct here the mistake that has happened before, and that is, according to the choice, the law now has to be rectified. It is true that that chamber at the time had such characteristics that it could only disinfect the operating tables of the manufacturer Maqet, but with this, thank God, this ministry has nothing to do with it. Once again, we had to correct a mistake that had happened in the past. As regards the damage to the tables at hospitals purchased by Sordina by hospitals in Slovenia, I can say that we have not received any written or oral requirements from Maribor and Murska Sobota for the time being after the replacement or possible errors in these hospitals, but that errors have actually been detected only at Novo Mesto Hospital. And given that the manufacturer found that the hydraulic system malfunction was present, he decided to replace it. This will not mean any costs for the ministry or taxpayers, nor will it be a problem for patients, since these exchanges will take place at a time that will not make the operations more difficult in the future or at a time when these tables need to be replaced. At the Oncology Institute, the tables have not yet been installed, yet the manufacturer has decided on this replacement - this is of course his business - especially if we know that this does not constitute any financial problem for the Ministry and for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you. You want to complete the answer. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. Of course, after two and a half years of your stewardship of this ministry, it would have been a time not only to use warnings and what has been done before to correct what you have done. I would, of course, warn you that the audit procedure for the acquisition of the disinfectant has been compromised, which, in fact, you have prevented by calling on the person who applied to withdraw from it. The other thing I would like to point out is that it is important to make sure that you do not answer precisely how the operating table is used in all hospitals where it has been delivered, because this information is extremely important when assessing whether there are also errors and defects. Of course, you are not concerned that the supplier will replace the newly installed tables that are not in use at all and replace them with something new, with a new one, and there is no guarantee that it will be new better than the new one. In doing so, Mr Minister, I cannot be satisfied with your response to that point, when you have repeatedly stressed the need to carry out the procedure for the procurement of operating tables by means of a rapid procedure. Therefore, legislation also had to be amended, referring to the life-threatening lives of patients at the Oncology Institute; today these tables are not yet in use. That is why, Mr Minister, in my view, it is certainly unacceptable that patients do not accept the care and services they need and deserve. Then I would like to ask: What about the danger and life of these patients and when will you take responsibility for the situation, Mr. Minister Bručan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much for this additional question. I have to say that I was only responding to your eyewitnesses here, and I had to answer them, so the public will know where the blame is for this acquisition of the decontamination code at the Oncology Institute. So you can't tell me that I'm negotiating or pronouncing for some procedures in the past. Either way, it was a supply at the time. The procedure was made, it was carried out at the time when the elections were already over and when it is actually very difficult today to justify such a signature of such a decontamination chamber in November 2004. But I'm only saying this because you told me that we prepared such a chamber for Maquet's tables. Of course, that is not true, and for this there is also all possible data. As regards the operating tables themselves and the purchase of these operating tables during this period, I cannot say otherwise than that we have adhered to the legislation and that these tables have been sufficient to meet all the requirements of the tender documentation. At the same time, we have always wanted to protect or meet those requirements that are expected to lead to the speediest and best possible implementation of certain procedures in operational operations, and we have therefore decided to purchase operating tables in this way. When the tables of Maquet were purchased, those reading Sordina’s acquisition today said that we had purchased too expensive and too good tables. Practically from the same circles, these readings came in. Once again, it was a mistake found by the State Audit Commission, of a technical nature, and it was not a mistake of a substantive nature. However, this led to a re-examination of the procedure. Today we have chosen tables that require everyone - or the Ministry has chosen all tables that meet the requirements of the tender documentation. If such purchase occurs, the supplier must correct these errors according to the contract that we have concluded with him, and this is now the case. It's not going, I repeat, to the detriment of the insurance companies and not the taxpayers. All of these changes will be done by the company in accordance with the contract without financial compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u32	Mr. Germich, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I would, of course, like to propose, on the basis of Article 246, paragraph 2, that the National Assembly should hold a debate on the Minister's response to the questions raised by me. This is mainly why: although the story of the operating tables is actually a constant in your mandate and we were able to monitor on the one hand your statements that the Slovenians deserve the best operating tables, of course, the warnings that were then in the public and also in this room set before you to buy for 200 million tables - then you insisted on making a decision. When you repeated the procedure, you decided on other tables that you could have decided already in the previous procedure, but of course you did not want to do so. Today we have a known supplier and we have famous tables. Unfortunately, problems with these tables are still present. You do not have any information on how to use these tables in individual hospitals. You have information that there are quite a few problems in individual hospitals, that you are not worried about the fact, and that you are referring, in fact, to the fact that the contract states that tables that will not work will be fixed, serviced and also replaced, so you are not concerned that the tables at the Oncology Institute are almost entirely replaced by the supplier - that is, new with new ones. So, you are not concerned that in the event that these tables will be fully used, that in the event that there will be a great burden due to intensive work on these operating tables, then the health of those who should be most able to serve these operating tables - that is, surgeons who will use them, of course, to the satisfaction of all patients, to receive the best possible services. Therefore, Mr Minister, to answer all these questions, to raise any doubts as to whether there might be damage to these tables in later years and to the dissatisfaction of patients because they will not receive adequate health care, to discuss your response and to remove any dilemmas that might arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, I cannot give you the floor to respond to these allegations, as Mr Germić also knows. On the proposal by Mr Germić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 25 April 2007, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's a good-bye! Mr. Minister, we've come to the question now. I will make the issue somewhat briefer or more concrete, given that I see that today's regulation on limit values for light pollution has been published among the materials in preparation for reception at the Government. I would like to begin by congratulating you immediately on the fact that, after ten years, you are the first minister to decide that the regulation of today's date on the day of the question - I hope that this was not the reason for you to decide - to have this regulation addressed in the Government. Ten years ago, however, Mr Bevk tried to do the same and failed. Of course, the problem is now this regulation, as it really is. I have to say that when I flew over it, I found that in the most problematic part where we're not supposed to be lighting directly from the lamps that illuminate the night sky above the horizontal, there are still two exceptions to this, but they are difficult to understand with logic and technical understanding. In fact, if the problem is diffused light, the current situation in urban areas or public roads and public areas, then I do not understand why we should not determine that the luminous flux should not be directed over the horizontal, that is to say, into the night sky. By directing the light current to the surface you are illuminating, only increase the efficiency of these lamps. However, the transitional period of ten years allows all owners lighting public areas to replace these lamps within ten years in accordance with this Regulation, since the second part of the Regulation and the third part of the Regulation relate to less energy consumption for public lighting or public lighting and also regulates the lighting of advertising tables. Problemsome in this Regulation - and therefore, Mr Minister, I suggest that you consider the provisions of Article 4 before the matter would actually be dealt with at a government meeting. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Šteba, I am pleased to answer your question. As you yourself have already said, on 8 May 1997 it will be ten years, which Member Sam Bevk first asked a question or called on the Government to prepare a regulation on the limits of environmental pollution, and now, if I can make a little joke, this strangeness that, in the fact that this regulation will be adopted, Member Bevk does not ask questions, but has come to the attention of the Magi. Amounts not fully satisfied with one of the solutions in this Regulation. That's the problem now. I must tell you that it has not been easy to come up with coordinated solutions. I assure you that at this time, even though you say in your written reply that there has been, in fact, one person watching over the content of this regulation all the time, which is in principle true, and indeed there have been very many professional and other meetings on this subject. In the end, however, this regulation is in some sense a compromise - I recognise it. Further information, which is also provided in this Regulation, I hope that you will be able to reach it, is published on the website; therefore, during the period 2005-2006, about 70 kilometre per capita was spent on public education in Slovenia. After we went to see if this information on electricity tariffs is reliable for the purposes of public lighting, we found that not all consumers of this electricity are also public lighting operators of the external open surfaces, and our assessment is that for the right lighting of the external uncovered road and other public areas at the annual level in Slovenia, 60 to 65 kilowatt hours per inhabitant is spent. On average in the European Union, we know that this is between 50 and 52 kilowatt hours per capita, so we are above the average of the European Union. With regard to your question relating to perhaps one of the key articles of this Regulation, this is Article 4, which speaks of lighting with environmentally friendly lamps, allow me to explain. For lighting, which is the source of light under this Regulation, lamps which do not shine above the horizontal, except - and you ask about this exception - represent lighting of public surfaces, with lamps not exceeding 2.5% of the luminous flux radiating upwards. And the other exception is, these are street lighting lamps in the area of narrow construction, where this limit is 15%, but of course only under certain conditions the intensity of the lamp or where it is a public area intended for pedestrians, cyclists or slow traffic of vehicles at a speed not exceeding 30 kilometres per hour. And another exception is where the public surface of the streets is surrounded on all sides by buildings or, at most, on one side with the area of surface water or the green public surface of the settlement. We can review this solution once again, and our ambition was to reach a deadline, so that perhaps this week the Government would adopt this regulation. There has been a lot of coordination about this solution - I assure you. And we can make another effort and look again at this solution that speaks of exceptions. As far as external advertising is concerned, I would like to say that the targets for electricity consumption are no longer increasing with respect to 2006. Here we are applying substantially stricter definitions of the radiation of light current over the horizontal. And on the basis of the implementation of the provisions of the proposal for a regulation, our assessment would stop the increase in electricity consumption for public lighting by 2010. Also in the operational greenhouse gas emission reduction programme since 2012, which we have adopted last year as one of the measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we have also identified a greater energy efficiency in household energy use and service activities, and since we are aware that one of the potentials is also in public lighting, it is our view that the total potential of total electricity savings in the period 2008 - 2012 is estimated at 408 gigawatt hours per year, which already affects greenhouse gas emissions reduction for, I think, 350 kilotons of CO2 per year. It's already some kind of savings, which also gives us here arguments for our direction. And that's what I'd like to say. Of course, we've coordinated, including with society. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which is an expert subject to this question. [[...]] Of course, they are not entirely satisfied with our regulation. My proposal is to go to reception and, if it turns out that we have been inconsistent with some of the solutions, the Government will also complete it in the coming period.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you. You want a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. See if the vehicles are moving slowly, or if the lamps are below 150 watts, or if there are less than three arcs of illumination - why is it allowed to illuminate the night sky in these cases? Why? It doesn't make any sense. Or, if public areas, local and state roads and sidewalks are lit, 2.5 percent is allowed. I really don't see any logic or technical argument here. In addition, Mr Minister, there is an incredible amount in the provisions under the heading "administrative burdens" to serve the municipalities or public awareness managers as to what changes have been made or what public enlightenment is. Why - in addition to producing these documents, it will be necessary to verify what will be written there. This is a huge, I mean, work that doesn't necessarily have to lead to results. Why, according to the projects that were the basis for the implementation of these luminaires, it does not look at the characteristics of individual lamps and check them according to how they are mounted. I mean, if a certain test is done. In such a way that these administrative burdens in these matters must be prepared for all public enlightenments in Slovenia within three years of the time limit laid down in the law and these documentation provided and environmental impact assessments on lighting should be made for all new projects. After all, if the Regulation were to be declared domestically, then no specific assessment, other than the energy efficiency of public lighting, would be necessary. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u41	Just for a little while. However, this Regulation is not such a simple document, and it is not least about the lighting of facades and cultural monuments. He's talking about exceptions to lighting up the cultural monument. It's a very detailed article. Then he talks about lighting up advertising facilities, he talks about lighting up sports playgrounds, he talks about lighting up construction sites, then he talks about the ban and then he talks about limiting the lighting of protected spaces and then, as you said, he has a special chapter on construction planning and lighting restoration. It speaks in detail about monitoring and then ultimately also about control, transgressions and the transitional period. Graduation is very important. Here we have shown some rationality in this regulation. Some transitional periods are relatively long. In this way, we will not impose any additional burden on those municipalities that may have been renovating lights in this area in recent years, since it is known that an article that is also very aggressive is Article 26, which states that the existing lighting of roads and public areas needs to be adapted to the provisions of this Regulation by 2016 at the latest. So, almost 10 years is the time to adjust. However, for new investments, of course, it is in force - also here is the current period, which refers to transitional provisions for the issue of environmental permits and spatial planning. This shall enter into force after 1 January 2008. So, with regard to administrative burdens - exactly, there was a lot of talk with our colleagues in the government, which have this area as their special area, and we were relatively restrictively understood not to introduce new procedures. However, it is only important that we also have an article on inspection supervision and, of course, by this regulation, we add another task to the very burdensome inspectors responsible for environmental protection, an inspection of the implementation of this Regulation. That's the new assignment they got. I gave you a brief answer with this. With regard to your question relating to Article 4 of this Regulation and to these exceptions, I can assure you that, together with my colleagues working on this Regulation, I will once again give consideration to the argument for exceptions in paragraph 3. For a short time in the first part of my answer, I've already taken them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavliha will ask the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance, who is currently absent. Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In December 2005, I reminded the President of the Government, with a question from the Member States, of the risk of embezzlement of more than one million insurers and insurers, of the mutual problem. And I must say that the issue has caused quite a few positive movements, both in the government and in Parliament. In Parliament, we have adopted, inter alia, an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act and have also adopted a amendment to the Health Insurance and Health Act, which has prevented the mutual intention of this week to transform it into a share society. At the same time, we ordered the government to prepare, within one year, more precisely by 12 April 2007, a special law regulating the possible statusal transformation of the Mutual. Since this law was not yet in March, I asked the Minister, in writing, where is this provision? Well, on April 12th, when the deadline expired, we also responded with concern to the Social Democrats' Group of Members and reiterated the danger that the Mutual at the side door would achieve the goal it had already desired a year and a half ago. This is pointed out by the profession, which was also pointed out by the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. I hear the marriage is ready now. We got it informally, informally. I have to say, at first sight, he's good, but that's what the debate's gonna be about later. However, I would like to know, Mr. Minister, what was behind this delay? What happened was not only that the law had not been drawn up within a period of time, but that it had not been prepared so much for a few months after we had temporarily managed to resolve the problem of instantaneous and uncompromising, unprofessional transformation into a share society. At the same time, of course, I also wonder: Is the government preparing any other measures or perhaps a strategy for long-term protection of public interest in supplementary health insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much to the Member for the question, which is also addressed to the Minister of Finance, perhaps, although the Ministry of Health is somehow the author of this law, it is possible that the Ministry of Finance is also more targeted, but today I will prepare a coordinated one with the Minister of Finance, i.e. on behalf of both ministries. The Government or the Ministry of Health prepared the Law on the Conditions for the Status Transformation of the Mutual until the end of March 2007 and the law then went to coordination at that time and is practically just before the Government will adopt it. In fact, this is a period of several days, a period of instruction which does not, at least after the lawyers have claimed, have any special consequences. However, it is true that this law should have been, it would have been good if it had been adopted earlier, but the content of this law is actually so difficult that, while it was written by the most well-known legal experts, it managed to prepare it somehow by the end of March 2007. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to consider the proposed law at its May session. Now, in the preparation of this law, we came from the Ministry of Health of the following facts: in particular, that the Mutual was established by law which laid down the conditions for the establishment of a special insurance company in the form of mutual insurance, to which the founder of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia transferred the entire insured portfolio of voluntary health insurance. That this insurance company was established solely for the purposes of intergenerational reciprocity and thus was made possible by the founder of the insurance contracts for voluntary health insurance payments for more than a million hundred thousand insurers. If the funds and procedures were carried out solely for the benefit of the insurers, in order for the mutual company to operate more cost-effectively, the premiums would not contain the profits of the owners of insurance companies and were expressly in the Health Insurance Act, sub-point i, exposed protection of the rights of insurers who were members of the Reciprocal on 31.8.2005, ensuring equal rights to insurers who did not have those rights on the same day, and protecting the rights of the founders of the Mutual, that is, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. However, I should stress here some of the solutions made by the Draft Law on the Status Transformation of the Mutual Rescue. It is a transparent regulation of the possibility of legal and legal transformation Mutually by establishing the criteria, conditions and transformation procedures and the rights of the founder and beneficiaries in the event of such transformation. Now, taking into account the public interest in establishing and maintaining voluntary health insurance in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, it is not possible to allow the company's non-reciprocality without the consent of most beneficiaries in terms of transformation or division. Therefore, the law also provides for a higher quorum or a higher majority and for a specific procedure to be followed by a reference to the Assembly for the adoption of decisions on recasting. An additional condition for the possible start of transformation procedures is the refund of all provisions for the age and mathematical provisions which the Mutual is obliged to repay to insured persons by 31.8.2007 in this case. In the case of possible splits, the Mutual would not cease, but would continue to operate through a portfolio of insurers who have not given consent to the transfer of contracts, provided, of course, that the Insurance Supervisory Agency, following the examination of the split plan, finds that further business in the Mutual after division is even possible. The Ministry of Health now notes, on the basis of all the data, that reciprocity in Europe is the dominant form of the implementation of health insurance and thus ensures the health safety of the population. In European countries, there are more than 5,000 mutual insurance companies with huge capital or funds available to them. And given that the Mutual only insurance company in the Republic of Slovenia, organised in the form of a mutual insurance company, would be any transformation of the Mutual which would eliminate the reciprocal nature of the organisation of the company, contrary to the public interest. This is possible, such a transformation, but only with this legal and procedurally determined high consensus of all members of the Mutual. With regard to the proposed merger, the Ministry of Health has repeatedly expressed the view that there is no legal basis before the adoption of the proposed law on such conduct. However, both congregations, both mutual and Adriatic Slovenes, are known to have been canceled.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Dr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Minister, for whom I would like you to complete it in just three parts. First of all, do they really hold rumors that the government is quietly preparing the ground to join the Mutual to Triglav's health insurance company? Second of all, was the legal company representing the insurance company Triglav really involved in the drafting of the law? For if this is true and the answer to the first question is yes, then it is as if the biggest government party were preparing a political campaign programme for the biggest opposition party. And the third thing that interests me is: Is it true that the Government has recently received a strong warning regarding the conduct of the mutual procedures? That's what they say. I'm just checking the questions that voters and voters are asking me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much for the additional questions that are somehow going in a different direction from what has been said in the introduction or the question raised. As far as joining Triglav is concerned, I don't know anything about that. That's the answer. I don't think I have anything else to answer. And by doing so, of course, as regards the law firm which is supposed to prepare or review the law on reshaping the Mutual, in the original proposal there was actually a name that I can't even repeat now, which is in relation to Triglav, but as soon as it was found that it had a connection to Triglav, it was also excluded from the procedure so that it had nothing to do with the drafting of the law itself. The government or the state received a reminder from the European Union in the opposite direction, not against the Mutual, but with regard to certain points, with the articles in the Health and Health Insurance Act, which we adopted last year, which can be fully responded to by essentially explaining a specific situation in relation to supplementary health insurance in Slovenia. Such a form of supplementary insurance or health insurance, which still exists in Slovenia, does not exist in any other European country. And I think in the perspective, in fact, in Slovenia, the health insurance system will need to be changed in a European sense. For the time being, there is no possibility of this, nor is there such a serious real domestic need, since the insurance system has been relatively stable and since the State has decided to repay those 28 billion losses in the previous period, there has been no further loss since the insurance company, at least as regards compulsory insurance, is very stable, and I can say that we are expanding all the time on the basis of the funds we have at our disposal, including, of course, the different programmes, and thus we are reducing the waiting period as it has been in the last two years. To this reminder from the European Union or the Commission, we are preparing an answer and on the basis of these options - we think of these answers - it is possible to make these observations that have come from the European Commission, but in particular within the meaning of some of the conditions that we put the Mutual for the transformation into a share society. Here are the main indications and we can easily reject this when we explain the entire health insurance system in Slovenia and the need for the Mutual to keep this supplementary insurance in this form in Slovenia in the future. But in this way it is possible to arrange this, and in part these findings could be changed or also arranged after the adoption of the Health and Health Insurance Act, the point K, which will soon be on the sidelines or the programme of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u51	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister Dr. Zupan, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting. Just one year ago, April 2006, the National Assembly voted in favour of the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. At the time of adoption of the law, the University of Primorska presented planned spatial projects and the National Assembly left the decision on the selection of these to the University of Primorska. This decision, or the adoption of the Guarantee Act, enabled the University of Primorsk to continue with the investments already launched, which, due to the collapse of SIT 330 million, should have been stopped at the expense of the State budget's rebalancing in 2005. The Administrative Committee of the University of Primorsk, in which the Ministry also has three members, adopted the following conclusion that part of this loan is intended to complete the Armeria and Forresteri project, which, due to the difficulty of the investment, claimed additional resources. However, until today, the University of Primorska has not received the formal consent of the Ministry of Finance to initiate the debt procedure and not the consent of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology for the use of credit. Therefore, there is a great danger that the University of Primorsk will not be able to obtain or draw on a guarantee loan in 2007 and 2008. Dear Minister Dr. Zupan! I ask you: Why have you not yet given your consent to use the credit that will allow the completion of the Armery and Foresterian project of the University of Primorsk? And with this: Why are you blocking the normal development of the youngest University in Primorska? That's what this word means to the human, "quickly yes, twice."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u53	Mr President, thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Mogue! Thank you so much for asking. In fact, the answer is relatively simple. The answer is, therefore, that I do not agree to use credit because I do not have a legal basis, I do not have the relevant conclusions and there is no agreement of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology on this. Why is that, of course, another question? The fact is that if we go in a row, the only legal consensus our ministry has on the table, the Governing Board's decision that the investment plan for Armenia and Forresteria has been changed from the original 986 million SIT, or if I speak in euros that we will all have - €4.11 million has been changed to a billion 140 million SIT or 4.75 million euros. This was done because the investment plan proposed a larger square. So the basic square that was reported in the dip, from 2853 square meters, the usable area has changed to 3352 square meters, which is approximately 17% more than planned. As a result, it is understandable that the investment increased by 15.6% in assets. This was agreed upon by the Ministry and this price was 1 billion, I repeat, 1 billion 140 thousand or 4 million 775. In 2005 and 2006, when this continued, it turned out that this investment increased to a billion EUR 900 000 or 7.94 million at the same time, which exceeded the basic investment by 67%. If one matter exceeds an investment by 67% of the funds on the same surface, it is clear that it is necessary to ask why. And when we asked that question, when we found out things, when we looked at the complete documentation that I have here -- if you want to, you can look at it -- we found that there were over 25 annexes added. We all know that for each annex that exceeds 10 million tolars, it is necessary to have an investment agreement, for every tolar that is larger than the one that has been approved, and none of these were approved over the sum of 100 billion - so I have no legal basis for it to sign a consensus - it has proved to be completely unprofessional. Indeed, the fact is that after this was cleared, there were various excuses; from the fact that equipment costs had to be increased as a result of the increase in the square, that 100 million more had to be given to municipal arrangements, that archeological excavations had been irritated, that it had to be encouraged when certain historical things had to be rearranged. We agree with all of this, but for each such matter, it is necessary to carry out a normal procedure in which, last but not least, the investor is involved and must give consent. There was no such cooperation, everything was done: for the first time, without our knowledge and for the second time without our consent. Even more, at the Ministry of Finance, without our consent, without the consent of the Ministry of Higher Education, which is defined in the Budget Act to give our Ministry its consent, without this agreement, an application for credit was made at the Ministry of Finance. In this way, in the rule of law, there is no business; and a very simple answer, so I could not give it because we have no basis for it. The second question is very simple: that is why we have separated the tourist investment from the fact that the tourist investment is now running smoothly and smoothly and that we are financing it in accordance with our rules and there is no problem. I mean, we're not stopping, but we're just defending all the other colleges that are at the University of Primorska. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u55	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. I see that you are doing your part well and, of course, if you encounter irregularities, you must act accordingly as Minister. This is also what law imposes on you, but since October 2006, you have been demanding new and new documents from the University to prove the transparency of managing this investment, and you report to it that it has entered into individual contracts without the consent of the Ministry. The three representatives, Mr Minister, the governments of the Management Board have been kept informed of the planned costs of this investment, as the Ministry has finally launched and confirmed a competitive solution that differed from the original identification document in terms of construction. At the very precise analysis of one of the investments of the University of Primorska, the fact is surprising, Mr Minister, that as Minister of Higher Education you were not interested and did not need an identification document, not an investment programme, not the consent of the Administrative Committee of the University or any other document which would prove that the same university is entitled to renew the service monastery for the purposes of its Faculty of Management, and allocate it in the 2008 budget for this construction of EUR 2 million. Is the Secretary of State at the Ministry, who until recently held the seat of the prodecan of this same university and still teaches it, sufficient guarantees for you to be transparent in this process? If that's true, it's a textbook case of corruption. So, the complementary question: What is the difference between the procedure that the second investment of the University of Primorsk was thus able to obtain investment funds and the first "travel the cross path"?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The second question has not been submitted and is completely different, as stated, and therefore I simply cannot give you an answer. If we wrote that, I'd give you an exact answer. We run all the investments exactly the same and the fact that someone at some university has nothing to do with it, I mean, nothing to do with it. I've been to the Chemical Institute before, and that's why the Chemical Institute enjoys some serious ratings. I think you're right, if that were the case, it's the wrong thing to do. I think that everything - and we guarantee it - is being treated equally by investments and all requests. As for the requirement of our members' presence on the board of directors, and here is one of the problems, and after Mr Gaber had an additional question about university autonomy, this is one of the key issues: how state money is dealt with. And this, I think, is crucial for all of our countries, that the conduct of people who are responsible for the work and management of state money is a key indicator. Our ministry on the administrative boards of the University of Maribor, the University of Primorska, and also the University of Maribor always and constantly requested all the documentation and did not receive these documents. Since then, we have been demanding conclusions, we are demanding - not accounts, we are demanding the conclusions of those bodies that have confirmed this, that we will know on which body of the university this has been concluded. We just can't justify a document that we don't know who approved. And that's what we're asking. Clearly, we demand this all the time and we will demand it further. Once these things are cleared up, it is perfectly clear that this will have to be paid. However, it should be borne in mind that this will actually affect the functioning of all other universities, because this will use the vast majority of the credit available, but it is not yet used, precisely because we want to get to the bottom of things.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Mogue, do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to discuss the Minister's response in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 which we all know in mind. I'd like to say the following. The University of Primorsk is one of the youngest universities, it needs to be helped because it certainly has some childhood disease and needs to be monitored more than any other and channeled in a transparent and fair manner. According to the information I have - Mr. Minister, don't blame me when you answer, put your mind down like an Idrian lace, jump from one thing to another, to the third, to the fourth, and I certainly couldn't create any complete answer. However, it seems to me that this issue is so acute, given the entry that this university has, given the importance of this university, that it would be good to have this question in view of the letters we received in the National Assembly, and I have them as a small map, to talk to you at a meeting of the National Assembly and to show it more transparently, or to come to you with a clean answer so that we can pour one and another pure wine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member, Mr Mojet, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide on Wednesday, 25 April 2007, in the framework of the votes. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will now ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, distinguished minister Dr. Bručan! A few days ago, you introduced a package of health laws into the procedure of admission to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, however, there are still no two laws, the Law on Mental Health, which you announced a day ago, and the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, which you have not talked about for some time. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Association, however, this is really the most important law that has been eagerly awaited by many Slovenian patients for many years. To receive it within six months, you have already announced to us at the beginning of your mandate in 2004. Later, you put him in public. Some versions were published on your website and this treatment was completed in June 2006 as far as I could monitor it. Nothing's happened since then. In fact, something has happened, namely that you have prevented the adoption of this law, which, together with a group of Members and Members, I put into the procedure last June. On 3 November 2006, the National Assembly adopted the conclusion that the law tabled by the Members is not suitable for further consideration, since the Members and Members of Parliament have adopted by majority your interpretation that your proposal for a law is already in interdepartmental coordination and will be submitted by you and your Government to the National Assembly as soon as possible. Since then, almost six months have passed and the law is still out of the question, nor has it been announced. However, the situation in the area of patients' rights remains disorderly, patients are not able to exercise their rights, are poorly aware of their rights and are mostly powerless when they are wronged. Their rights are changing because of frequent changes in legislation and regulations, and they need help in applying these complaints. Patients expect us - Members of Parliament and Members to listen to their problems, to appoint a guardian in each region, who will be a self-sufficient, pervasive and independent guardian, a man to whom they will turn in distress and in the face of health problems. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Will you, and when exactly will you, but will you put in the procedure a law on the protection of patients' rights? Why not give appropriate attention to the problems mentioned in this regard? The time is getting smaller and smaller, and the government is predicting that the work in the coming months, when we are President of the European Union at the end of your term of office, will be very slow and I see great danger in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much for that question. With regard to the Law on Patients' Rights and partly the Law on Mental Health, the work will not stop at the government, I can say that now. The work will continue, but it is true that there will be more work on the Presidency of the European Union, but only at the end of this issue. However, it is also true, as you say, that the law on the rights of patients - patients' rights - needs to be properly spoken, so the law will be called - since the beginning of October 2004 is still in interdepartmental coordination and since this law deals with and professionally coordinates the very difficult medical, ethical and legal issues of patients' rights, as well as the procedures for their realization or enforcement and international comparisons and solutions, this procedure is even longer than could be expected. I think that this is also the answer to what was voted in Parliament last November. In fact, it is such a serious law that it needs to be fully completed before we propose it to Parliament for consideration. That is why that proposal, which was proposed by you at the time, was rejected in Parliament. In fact, it was a bill that was practically identical to a proposal a few years ago. I can tell you that it is tomorrow, so tomorrow is Tuesday, the last coordination at the level of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health regarding this law on patient rights. However, the law will be submitted for consideration to the Government by 15.05.2007 and then to the National Assembly after these technical amendments. It is true, I admit that the coordination procedures have been somewhat extended, but the objective is only one - to ensure better substantive provisions and the content of the law, and in particular to protect the rights of patients. I think this is one of the most important laws, which is also of quality. At the same time, the law represents a great deal of innovation and progress in the content of patients' rights, their protection and the orderly handling of complaints, especially the basis for raising culture and also human relations between health professionals and patients. The law, as it is prepared for the procedure, the proposal for a law, is one of the most modern laws in Europe, at least after the talks I have had with some colleagues, with the Ministers of Health of other European Union countries. I would not explain now what this law deals with and is divided into three parts, namely, in the general provisions of the law with the basic definitions of the content of the law, its purpose and fundamental principles and the definitions of the concepts used to the user of the law in the grave presents its contents first and serves primarily as an interpretation basis for understanding the provisions of the law. The second Skopje then establishes and represents a material legal part where the patient's rights catalogue sets out the content of the relationship between the patient and healthcare professionals, i.e. the rights and obligations of participants in the healthcare system. For each individual right, the content is set together with the content of possible modality, specialities, exceptions. And in the third set of provisions, which constitute a procedural part, procedural tasks or means of exercising the rights of the patient shall be laid down when they are infringed. In addition to the above parts, the law also contains provisions on supervision, penal provisions and transitional and final provisions. I must say here that there has been a major, very large debate on the institution of the Ombudsman. With the former Ombudsman, we were in the most frequent contact, but, on his part, in his time, his mandate was somehow suppressed in the background. I think that we are also more inclined on our part, because the bill also states that future patients' rights should be dealt with on a regional basis within the framework of the rights of the patient. In this way, it would probably be easier to deal with infringements of patients' rights, but what is most important in all the law is that the law treats two-stagely at the basic level, at the level of institutions, a number of problems, because we know that this is possible to solve approximately, at least after my experience, at least 95% of all the problems that arise in the relationship of patients - doctors or other healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much again for your words and, of course, also thank you very much for your answer. I hope, Mr. Secretary, that this is the last time I've called you to this marriage. We've talked about this many times, and we've asked you in a way to speed things up. Above all, of course, in some way you got yourself involved because you were always too early to promise. I hope this time the date I wrote down on May 15th really holds. Not only me, but also many Slovenian patients and everyone who reminds us of a number of problems in this area, where, in fact, everyone is just calling under this law. If I mention just a few specific cases, then it is clear how much of this guardian or whatever, we will already have, we need. I also support your option with the regional guardians, including their extremely independent role to be given in the way they function and the way they finance them, and I hope that the law has such designs. For take into your own hands the report of the only Ombudsman who currently exists, this is Mrs. Magda Szezlina, established by the self-initiative Municipality of Maribor, which operates in this area where there is a huge increase in matters. She started working in 2002 and then had 406 cases, while last year she had 844 cases, together in these years over 3,300 cases, which means how big this problem is. And last but not least, there may not be a protest of cancer patients if these societies had other ways and patients, cancer patients, but unfortunately there have been no such routes in our country so far. That is why it is absolutely necessary, and I really hope that this date is true; but I must predict that, as long as nothing happens by 15 May, I will keep repeating this until this law does not happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Now, if this constant repetition really meant a faster adoption of this law, I will be very pleased, but I hope it will not be necessary, because we have actually reached all the consensus with the individual ministries necessary for the adoption of this law. I have to say I didn't answer about the Mental Health Act before. Both marriages have been made for decades, and this law on mental health is very similar in the drafting of this law on patient rights. Sometimes we wonder if this Law on Mental Health, which has a little unfortunate address from the past period, would not have been good enough for us to change it so quickly as to include it in the Law on Patients' Rights, because this Law on Mental Health practically speaks only of the rights of mental patients, but for now the laws are separate and have been dealt with in such a way. Technically, this merger would also lead to significant problems for the adoption of the law itself on patient rights. I think that the patient's rights are already guaranteed in a number of laws and even in the code, but in every way the rights of the patients are guaranteed, and the appeal procedure is one that is inappropriate and which this law, which we will now put into consideration, is also in fact - this process is also fully defined and protected by the patient or patient in the future against some unnecessary complications that have occurred in recent decades in this area. That's it. I will try very hard, as I have done so far, to get this law into Parliament as soon as possible, but in fact it is such a difficult ethical issue that requires serious consideration in some of the solutions. That's why there's been some longer delay in preparing the marriage itself, and that's why, I'm sure, it's better.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr Sasha Peca, since the Minister for Economic Affairs is not here, will you still ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u69	Respectable present. My question is not directly related to Mr Visionak's answer. I would expect a response from any of the ministries that is not embarrassed to be a minister within the Slovenian government. If you'll allow me to expose the goldfish. The goldfish is applied to that animal whose memory lasts longer than three seconds or less for less than three seconds, and I can certainly say that it is a goldfish, not because of three wishes - Mr Janez Janša. Mr Janez Janša was one of those opposition politicians who, at the end of the previous mandate, created images of Slovenia in the form of corruption, customerism and money laundering. That is why all present ministers, especially Mr. Visiak, who is unfortunately not here today, I ask: Who is Damjan Kolletnik? Who is the staff member within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Who is it, gentlemen, that you make up the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who is recruiting on your behalf? Who's the money launderer? Who is the one who creates clientism and corruption within our country? Ladies and gentlemen, you are probably aware that the excuse of public tendering within companies not directly linked to ownership within the Republic of Slovenia is connected within the framework of indirect enterprises - I am talking about Drava power plants and related companies within the framework of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding - who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the President, I am stressing your President, Prime Minister Janez Janša, has marked clienteleism and corruption some time ago? From this title, I can say with certainty that the appointment of such a person, who in this way works with non-disclosure calls, turns billions and millions of euros among friends, among the friendly links within the SDS party, on your behalf, gentlemen and ladies of the Slovenian Government, which you appoint. My question is very simple - this time because there is no Mr. Visionary - how do you feel? How do you feel about someone making such a appointment instead of you and you represent exclusively a voting machine? I believe that each of you ministers will be able to tell me how you feel, especially those ministers who are actually involved in raising your hands and you know who I'm talking about. It is a simple shame for our country that such institutions are not the only ones, such as the Drava Power Plants, run by the people who call, and, of course, allocate the rights of invitation to tender, define and resolve in a manner solely by party. Ask yourself how you came to be in power. You came to power solely through criticism of the previous system of the existence of clientelism and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you. Your question, which is why there has been an unjustified increase in electricity and what is the business and vision of the works of the Drava power plants Maribor, will be answered in writing by the Minister of Economy within one month. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, because the question was closed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I have read your written question, which has been addressed, and I have merely repeated this question. Next [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Martin Mikolitch, do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Pache, if you're going to abuse this business opportunity, I'm going to take your word off your hands right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. In view of the absence of the addressee of the question, Article 247 would apply to include the question in the next meeting of the National Assembly, or to answer it in writing, the Minister addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you. It's taken into account. Mr Martin Mikolič will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nicely greeted! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the past year, the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was supplemented. Pursuant to Article 91 of the Regulation on the protection of documentary and archival material relating to the record of public symbols, coats of arms, flags, stamps, stamps and stamps at the level of the State, a special expert committee has been established in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia to register and document in the form of a register in the same article the cited public symbolism. In the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, that commission was appointed months ago, but according to my information it has not yet been operational. Given that the Republic of Slovenia is a full member of the EU, that the Republic of Slovenia is making a great effort to identify its identity in Europe and the world, that the Republic of Slovenia does not have an adequate area of identity symbolism, and that the Republic of Slovenia will preside over the EU with a new year, where it should also be in the field of identity symbolism, where the coat of arms and flags belong, if not already an example in the regulation of this area in its at least comparable to other Central European cultures, I ask you: What should you do or what you will do to ensure that the Regulation on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material in the Area for which I am asking you is implemented in the manner set out? Because, as I'm aware, things are going very slowly. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Commissioner Mikolić. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore also responsible for keeping a register of public symbols, coats of arms, flags, seals, stamps and stamps under the law on the protection of documentary and archival materials. On 14 February 20907 the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Matevž Končir, issued a decision appointing a commission to deal with applications for entry into the register of public symbols. The Commission was therefore appointed for five years and the first meeting was scheduled for March 2007 and the Commission was expected to draw up guidelines and working methods for the Commission at that meeting, but the meeting was postponed and postponed in April. Since the President of the Commission is still absent from the disease, on 18 April the first meeting was convened by his deputy and at this meeting they simply decided not to meet until 16 May in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and to deal with the tasks following from the law. They should first develop guidelines and the manner in which the Commission operates. Various proposals for the work of the Commission, i.e. by individuals, should also be addressed and recommendations should be made to local communities regarding the registration in the register of public symbols, coat of arms, compositions, seals, stamps and stamps. There is also a public hearing on these recommendations, but, as I have already said, the Commission, which was appointed on 14 February, has not yet taken action, mainly because of the President of the Commission, who is absent and also a key person, in fact, for the competent functioning of this Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Squeakl Would you like some more? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u77	I thank the Minister for his answer. I would only point out that I somehow expect or expect all of us together that this Commission, which has certain tasks also in the regulation, will actually do so. So that it does not happen that, like a number of commissions that have been appointed in the past, a certain task has not been carried out or, in time, all of this has been carried out for too long. Given that I know this area very well myself, it is only right that we finally arrange this in Slovenia. In the interest of the State of Slovenia as well as in the interest of the local communities, I expect that the Minister, who is respected, will really have a job ahead of him. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can only agree with the Member's proposal, and I will also simply try to make closer contact by myself and remind them that the Commission will, of course, work faster and more efficiently after 16 May. However, I believe that the Commission - I also have a composition before me - will be competent enough and responsible enough to carry out its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will ask the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u81	Citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, Minister present and Minister absent. In the case of public consumption, rule number 1 is that money is spent in accordance with the practice of a good master. When concluding contracts, it is necessary to ignore friendships or the political pressures of interest groups or even the pressures of superiors. Money should be spent for the purpose set out in the National Assembly. At the same time, public money should be used as carefully as citizens and businesses are taxed. Practice points to the opposite. The government doesn't act carefully, it doesn't act anti-corruption, even if there's been a lot of talk about it. You're saying, you said after your victory everything would be different, clientelism would no longer be. You promised that there would be no more corruption, but you had to or would have to remove a lot of people who "crushed their fingers". But it is not clear where people will come from, from membership in the organisation of SDS, New Slovenia or the supervisory boards of shareholders. It is difficult to talk about the tasks of the tax administration, because Mr Bajuk has already apologized again, but I cannot help but overlook the fact that around the director, Mr Simic, and the companies that are "always more smoked". Mr Simič has repeatedly tried to convince the public that there is nothing wrong with the fact that he is also the director of the DURS and the owner of the advisory companies in the field of tax advice. That is what Mr Bajuk thinks and probably you too, Mr Bručan. You don't think there's anything at stake here that's being consulted first, and then those guys are in control. There is no dispute unless certain complaints are filed and appropriate procedures are initiated, in particular where complaints are directed against the functioning of companies and other organisations to which it is also advised. The Director of DURS shall be supported when the tax inspectors who point out this are dismissed. All of this shows that we have a lack of control over the proper use of public funds and therefore more clienteleism. Mr Minister Bručan and, of course, Minister Bajuk absent: Are you sure that action in the field of public money spending [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , especially in the field of investment in health care, ensures the prudent, transparent use of public money? [[...]] And: Are you sure that your control over money use prevents potential abuse? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for asking. All of this will be difficult for me to answer on behalf of Minister Bajuk, but as for health work, I am happy. Budget item 875, the budget fund under the law, namely public health institutions in which depreciation funds and other non-budgetary resources are acquired, and by the end of the financial year, the outstanding investment funds, are either one of two budget lines or resources to finance investments in hospital health care. The second source for these purposes is the second special budget item called Investments in Public Health Institutions. As with the latter, the budget fund is an integral part of the state budget and management of it is exactly the same as management of other budget items. This means that the expenditure of the budget fund is planned and implemented in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Public Finance Act, the Budget Enforcement Act and the Public Health Institutions Investment Act, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, and on the basis of the rules issued. The procedures for the use of the budget fund resources are set up in the same control and control mechanisms as for the remaining budgetary use, so that this is no less prudent, transparent and in line with the good management practice as the consumption of other budgetary resources and, to the very least, potential abuses are prevented. I must say that, according to the current budget, the value of this fund is €32 million this year. By the beginning of this month, €10 million has been spent on contracts and €2.8 million has been paid for construction, goods and services, leaving €22 million unladen for the remaining three quarters of the financial year. In proportion to the increased volume of construction and purchase of equipment for Slovenian hospitals from this fund, consumption is significantly more intense than in the past. I must say, when I came to the Ministry, there was quite a lot of money in this fund. However, I must say that it is good that this fund has been set up in the previous mandate at all, as otherwise these funds for investments in health care would have fallen or would have been transferred back to the state budget, which would have led to a further slowdown in the construction of some hospitals or public institutions at secondary level, and this is a positive role for this fund. In these two and a half years, we have led the practical fund to empty and the funds used to do so. This has been achieved by substantially accelerating investments in public institutions, which means hospitals in particular. At times, however, this fund would be much faster to empty or implement it more quickly, sometimes depending on the overall social situation in this area, especially on the conclusion of contracts, which depend on late procurement procedures. This is due, on the one hand, to the exceptional scale and complexity and to the technical complexity of any slightly larger public invitation to tender for the acquisition of equipment for new hospitals and, on the other hand, to the systematic exploitation of disproportionate rights that are actually or even only apparent tenderers in the audit procedures of public procurement, as was also the case in the last DTS construction tender, says the result of an emergency block in the northern part of the Clinical Centre. Well, I can ensure, as far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, that the management of the budget fund under the Law on Public Health Investments, as well as other use of budgetary resources for health investments, does not deviate in any way from the otherwise prudentity and transparency of public spending, in accordance with good-economy practice. It is precisely because of the latter that this fund, which I mentioned earlier, is also urgently needed, since, in such and so much dependence on the will of the providers and also on the capacity of the operators, a pure budgetary mode of financing investments would result in their annual interruptions, as I mentioned at the outset, and all construction would be slowed down. So I think that, to your question whether I am ensuring transparency in the use of budgetary money for investment in health care, I can answer with firmness.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Well, I hope that your answer is not correct, because if the use of the budget does not deviate from other spending in this government, then I am very concerned. Mr. Minister, I'm going to be very specific. You run the construction of the Pediatric Clinic in Ljubljana. The problem has been burning for a long time. However, data, information shows that solving this problem does not show that children will actually get everything they have in the budget. You're supposed to be watching the investment of the pediatric clinic. Mr Bajuk should be particularly aware of this. There's been an appointment to build a pediatric clinic. How is it implemented? One of the operators, Macro 5 Investments d.o.o. even boasts on its websites that it started building electrical installations at the Paediatric Clinic. It's all right here. However, this operator has hired a special form of advice, business advice or tax advice to lay down the cables. For tax advice, the company selected Partner Fin d.o.o., which is owned by the miracle boy SDS, the economic advisor SDS, Mr Domna Zavrl. Mr Zavrl’s task was to provide for those who build electrical installations at the Pediatric Clinic with tax and business advice of over a quarter of a million euros, or at home, of 500 workers’ salaries. I do not wish to challenge you, but, Minister, if this is a form of prudent use of public money, then I am very concerned. I ask you: What was this tax and business advice for a quarter of a million euros at the Pediatric Clinic, whose first payment was made 14 days after the contract was signed? I ask for a very precise answer and your confirmation that it is under control.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Additional answer, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much for this question, which is not entirely part of the basic question. Such a precise question, of course, can you, without being informed in advance, I can also answer it later. But this way I have to answer the apriori. The Ministry of Health has had no contact with this miracle boy of yours. It is about the fact that we submitted the transaction after the invitation to tender and, of course, within the subcontractors, it was then the one who was chosen on the invitation to tender, but which concluded the contracts for the execution of the works, I do not know with whom he thought was actually the most appropriate. In any case, however, the Ministry of Health does not have any other connection to this signature, except that the operator of the installation works was selected for the invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u88	Allow me, before I give you my word, to stress that the question that has been announced by the Magi is a question. Milana M. Squeak completely in line with the question he posed. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Minister, I have asked you, of course, for supervision and because, of course, public spending control is the point of the question, I propose that, in accordance with paragraph 236 of the second paragraph, [[?]] the articles are held in public debate. In this public debate, Mr. Minister, you will be able to answer how you can ensure that your contractor enters into an agreement on entrepreneurial business tax advice, because in the introductory article of the contract, the Pediatrics clinic of the contracting authority with the Ministry of Health is an essential and integral part of the contract signed on 20 July 2006, the first payment was paid 14 days later from the budget money and, of course, the tax inspector who warned of this when reviewing other business of the same company, to this tax inspector, Mr. Minister of Finance, who is not here, has apparently allowed this tax inspector, Mr. Director of the DURS, to simply reply to the tax inspector [[?]] working relationship. Mr Health Minister and Mr Finance Minister, of course, in such a public debate, which I propose in the debate, of course, on an inadequate response, we should look at such transactions. If business is happening that someone with a quarter of a million euros does tax advice at a paediatric clinic, and all the business you are doing in this budget fund is some 10 million euros, then I am very worried. I would therefore suggest, Members and Members, that when we vote on this issue on Wednesday, if I am not mistaken, we may, of course, get an appropriate reply to Mr Health Minister by then to look at the business. And to ask the Minister of Finance who may have carried out this tax advice. I hope that the tax advice at the Pediatric Clinic, which I do not know what could have been, has not been carried out by any of Mr Simic's companies, Director Durs. We have had this issue in public debate for several weeks now. He's being chased by a tax inspector for pointing out the problem. But you don't chase problems. And the problem is that someone contrary to the law commits abuses, of course. And I would ask, Mr Health Minister, that, together with the assistance of the Minister of Finance, who is supposed to be watching over the budget, because this is a sub-account of the state budget, look very carefully at who could be in less than a few months, in 14 days was the first business, to conduct over a quarter of a million business and tax advices to place electric cables in the pediatric clinic. We're talking about 2006, I'm talking about this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We will vote on your proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He does, however, have the floor to ask the question of a Member of Parliament, Comrade Aleš Gulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u91	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, Madam Ministers! In particular, the Minister of the Interior to whom I refer this question. In our country, traffic safety is far below what we have set ourselves or far from what we have set with the National Road Safety Programme here in this National Assembly. Scissors between what we wanted and what happens on our roads and then in hospitals and eventually in morgues are increasingly open. In light of what was desired, this year I think that about 250 or below 200 dead in road traffic is, of course, far from what is actually happening. Of course, the police are not the only key to this, but certainly very important. And the responsibility for the implementation of this programme is the responsibility of this body as an internal minister, so I ask the Minister to answer two questions. How many repressive measures, proposals for the initiation of a criminal procedure, have the police issued in the following years in 2004, 2005 and 2006, are they said at the time of this Government? And second question: What will be the police's orientation and what will be the police's action to reverse this trend, is that we will go to what the national road safety programme in some way requires and obliges us? Thank you very much for these two answers. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you, too. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for that question. First, in 2004, this government was essentially covering this area for a month. However, I must say that if I touch first on the previous National Road Safety Programme and the programme, I was very surprised to see the analysis of how the plan that was adopted in this National Assembly has been implemented, and unfortunately, it has been shown that only one of the institutions of the programme that was envisaged has been implemented almost entirely, but not entirely, but almost entirely. Others involved and envisaged to operate over the past five years have not done their work to such an extent, some almost nothing. If we are talking about statistics themselves, we must say that the police handed down in 2004 exactly 609,365 penalties for road traffic offences, both term penalties and proposals to the judge for offences. That the new Road Safety Act allowed the police to implement other measures, not only criminal measures, in terms of direct punishment, but also warnings. And so in 2005, the police issued 418,614 such measures, and last year, 460.598 infringements punishable by a fine or an incriminating motion to the court. It should also be said that the police have received additional tasks since 1 January 2005. She's become a criminal organ. It has been given the power of a complicated procedure to implement this area, and last year we succeeded in amending this part of the law so that now police officers can decide quickly, which has significantly improved, reduce the administrative burden of police officers, while at the same time achieving that those who commit the worst offences on the road are punished immediately and the effect is faster. I must also say that in the last two years, police officers have focused mainly on punishing those crimes that are the most common cause of accidents. It's speed and guilt of the drivers. According to our statistics, slightly more than 65% of all sentences imposed were pronounced due to excessive speed or because of the guilt of drivers or the combination of both factors. Over the next period, the police are considered to be involved in all the plans envisaged in the national programme for greater security. The police are also the body that has carried out almost all the activities envisaged over the past five years. I must say that in the police and the ministry we are aware of the great responsibility of the police and the Ministry to do whatever is necessary in this area. It is not just the presence of police officers, what is our job, of course, the work on auto schools, the supervision of these and the school programs, the way we do exams and so on. However, it must be made clear that the police are not the only ones who can reduce what is happening on our roads. However, I have to say that the police have already started some actions this year, some are fully self-employed, some are in cooperation with other ministries or some other institutions, and I think that work and involvement, especially in motor work, with one-way vehicles, as they are officially called, has been very well integrated into the Association of Motorist Clubs, Motorist Activists of Slovenia, Automotive Association and everyone else. At the same time, of course, the police have increased their presence on the roads, even during weekends, so that we have recently had a substantial increase in the number of patrols operating on the roads and, of course, with such activities, we intend to continue so that as far as the police are concerned, everything that has been set and done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your answer. Comrade Aleš Gulič, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u95	Of course it's a complementary question. Not so much because I would not be satisfied with the answer, but because this subject is so complex and, of course, extensive that it is good to hear more about it. You said that in 2004, this government had no significant influence. Of course, 2004 is not a problem as well. In 2004, if we look at it, this matter, which is related to the National Resolution on Road Safety, is actually very close to the desired ones. This, between my right and my left pointer, is supposed to be a line that shows how to reduce it, and we actually see that the scissors are spreading. In 2010, there were only 136 dead, of course today or last year, when it was supposed to be under 200, I think 195 were 272, while in 2004 there were only 5% differences - instead of 245 were 249 dead on our roads so that things got worse in the last two years. So this thing has spread out instead of staying closer to what we want. This year's data on the number of dead, injured road users confirm this claim. Now, of course, you're talking about action. I must say that some of the actions are welcome - especially those which educate and, of course, are related to civil society. I don't know, you said with Moto link Slovenia, with MUS it's another union or with MAXI, I'm sure that's what it is, but it's for motorists, but of course there's no such thing for motorists. The only thing that's been noticeable lately are some abandoned police vehicles on the road. I have to say that I meant to call that they left the car there, then they told me that it was a new form of prevention, and that's bullshit, because that's what people are laughing about and not even [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you for that additional question. Since I avoid talking about what the government has done and because you speak so directly, some of the data will be me, not about this table. Let's say that the Ministry of Transport in the previous mandate has done nothing about what was in the national programme and we all know how much burden the Ministry of Transport has, and neither have they carried out any of the activities that they should have done, could also have listed in other ministries what they should not have done. At the same time, this percentage of road deaths should be significantly reduced in 2004, and this was not the case. All the time, the pace that was set was not followed. We are in a situation where there has not been a significant reduction, nor has there been a significant increase in the dead on our roads, but we cannot possibly be satisfied with this picture, we cannot be satisfied with it at all, and if we look around at the approaches used by foreign police in reducing road traffic accidents, we could notice that the Western European countries are closest to us, say Austria is using the same principles and tactics, leaving the vehicle by the road and thus dying traffic, put even more, a paper officer who is placed in certain places and it works, now that if this does not work, I cannot help you. But these are principles that are established in the members of the European Union and will be applied by us, thus achieving certain results and facilitating transport. It is clear, however, that the situation that we had in 2004 where every other driver was punished, more than any other driver in Slovenia, is strange that we are using exclusively and only repressive measures, what the previous Government, exclusively repressive measures, has been completely ignored for five years. We have now come to the point of combining, to punish the most serious offences that are the most common causes of accidents and the most serious violations, to warn police officers in other offences, and therefore to reduce the number of persons punished, but there will be no significant reduction in road safety and Mr Gulič, you know exactly why I was talking about motorists. We had an extremely nice winter and under such conditions motorists appear much earlier on the roads than they usually do in the harsh winters and the conditions for driving in such conditions are extremely difficult for motorists, mainly due to the fog that occurs at morning hours and causes the road to be not what someone expects and therefore we were particularly focused on motorists this year because we are in last year's [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your answer. The following asks the question of the Magi. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The European Year of Equal Opportunities for All is an opportunity for a more thorough reflection on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment in Slovenia as well. Last but not least, Slovenia received from the European Commission an official reminder of the transposition of the directive relating to the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons, irrespective of race and nationality, directly linked to the legislation relating to employment. The last report, the third report of the European Commission against racism and intolerance in some parts, also mentions that the situation in Slovenia with the principle of equal treatment is not such that it should be satisfied. In the 62nd Recommendation, we can read that despite the apparent low number of individual cases of racial discrimination in employment, some data can be seen that there is imbalance between people of different ethnic backgrounds, which would require further investigation. It is concluded, however, that it has been observed that members of ethnic minority groups rarely reach leadership positions in the public administration or in certain areas of the private sector. It is precisely because I have also received in my hands information on the case of discrimination due to ethnic background that I have decided, Mr Minister, to ask you a question related to public administration, in particular with the State Administration, because if it is true of ethnic discrimination which is supposed to be systemic, principled and collective in the State Administration, it is likely to be necessary to deal with it. I therefore ask: Are there any data on cases of discriminatory behaviour in employment? How are the procedures for identifying such infringements implemented, what are the competences of individual authorities in this regard, and what complaint channels are opened? All of this, of course, in relation to cases of discriminatory behaviour in employment, promotion in the workplace, opportunities for education, performance or even psychological violence in the workplace, which we also know as mobile. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you for asking. Of course, we are aware of the importance of ensuring equal opportunities for employees in public administration, regardless of personal circumstances, and in this regard a whole range of activities have already been carried out in several areas. First of all, at the normative level, you will recall that we have proposed in 2005 and the National Assembly has adopted amendments to the Law on Public Servants, which introduce a new Article 15a, which expressly prohibits any harassment, defined as physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct or behaviour of a public servant based on any personal circumstances and which creates a frightening, hateful, degrading, shameful or offensive working environment for a person and deplores his dignity. The second set of measures is carried out in the field of inspection. I will also provide some concrete information on these controls. Third time. We have an option in the public administration that is not in the private sector. This is an opportunity to appeal to an individual public servant for a decision relating to the right to work or to a violation of those rights by silence or passive conduct, i.e. by inequity. A number of cases of such infringements or alleged infringements have been dealt with by the Complaints Commission of the Government. And the fourth area, the field of training of public servants on the theme of mobile phones. First of all, all heads of public administration staff services in the form of special training have already been informed of the emerging forms and contents of the mobile phone. In addition, we have just included a specific module of mobbing, mental violence in the workplace as an integral part of a special training programme for top leading public officials. We are also preparing to include this module in a recast general catalogue of public administration training. They also went through public, through this kind of training, including all three of our inspectors for the public servants system, because that's how many we have. As far as specific cases are concerned. So far, we have received reports of alleged violations of the principle of non-discrimination in the workplace in 2006-8. In 2007, 13 applications. A total of 13 checks have been carried out and in no case has it been established or has it been proven that such an unlawful, irregular conduct based on any personal circumstances of the applicant would occur. Eight complaints were brought before the Board of Appeal in 2006. It was mainly cases of non-choice in the job market or in the exercise of rights from the employment relationship. No discrimination has been found in these cases either. Now the problem in such cases is of course that it is extremely difficult to identify and prove that a decision has been taken on the basis of personal circumstances. However, it is possible to prevent and sanction such conduct if it is illegal, if there is a violation of a right, for example, of the underpaid salary, or if the employee is not allowed to normally perform his or her work in his or her place of employment, etc., in which case it is quite easy to determine the actual situation, identify the breach and remedy it. However, when it comes to legal conduct, such as a decision on progress, an assessment of performance, a staff member complains that he has received, say, a poorer assessment of performance due to his personal circumstances, it is extremely difficult to prove this, especially in those decisions where the criteria are not fully and 100% objective. This is a problem, for example, of selection procedures where it is virtually impossible to objectify selection criteria, because if 100% of them were to be objectified, there could be absurd situations. Otherwise, we are working intensively with the Office for Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Labour Inspectorate. Four institutes deal with this issue: the Public Service System Inspectorate, the Complaints Commission, the Labour Inspectorate and the Equal Opportunities Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I am not saying that at the normative level, but also implementation has not already been done, but the fact is that it is likely that individual cases only reveal, those who are known and reported, individual cases nevertheless reveal that when an individual is trying to get a better treatment within the system after the escape and the steps taken, it is not always understood. The last case we faced on the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities was, let's say, such a species that nothing has been found within the system. But when someone intervened outside the system, he realized that it was a misbehavior. But what I would like to stress in particular and ask you is that this is probably not the last reminder of the European Commission that we have received with regard to the principle of equal treatment, some are still predicting. Amendments to the law are also announced. But it is precisely because of this experience that it is difficult within the system to prove such a very sensitive thing, which is sometimes a very subjective judgment left behind, that it is good if the determining authority is independent. And since we have an institution called an advocate or advocate of the principle of equal treatment, changes in the law would be expected to make this institution completely independent. Therefore, the proposed solution for an official or an official to do so is not appropriate to me. I wonder: Is there any change in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you, too. Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u105	Amendments to the Equal Opportunities Act, I have been quoting the title for work, I know it is a little longer, the government has recently considered and in this context we have also done this discussion, whether we need another special institution in Slovenia, which would be bound and solely responsible to the National Assembly for this area of equal opportunities. Our assessment was that such a solution would almost mean inflation of such organs. In addition to those already envisaged by the Constitution, we have a State Audit Commission, we have a Commission to prevent corruption, we have an information officer or an information officer, and we have assessed that a purely "sui generis" institution with such powers and, of course, with a certain number of employees and with everything that is included in it, would be an irrational solution. We believe that it is only right that this institution of an advocate or advocate of equal opportunities remain in the Office for the same opportunities to ensure that the person who performs this work actually has a high degree of autonomy in this work, that it is also not possible for those persons to be transferred from this place, from this position to another place, or be deprived of that mandate, unless there are any infringements. So also in the service system this institution of this position, these tasks are very, very protected. And after arguing, according to the Equal Opportunities Office, this is a solution that the European Commission also agrees with. I agree with you that this is an extremely sensitive area, an area where there is probably a very large, very large gray area of cases, when, say, employees claim that it is a mobile or discrimination, which is extremely difficult to prove - whether it is or not. There are also examples, I am sure, when employees as mobile people treat or mark management measures to achieve better quality of operation, to achieve greater efficiency, to achieve better results. Even in this case, sometimes those who are not willing to work more and better hide behind the supposed mobbing. However, it is extremely difficult to estimate how much of the cases could be classified in one category and how much cases could be classified in another category. As we say, with all these institutions, we try to ensure this. But for a specific case, I don't know how interested I am, of course, and we're happy to examine it and see exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by the Member of Parliament, Mr Zagorac. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you for your words, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office. A recent visit by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Podrav, north-eastern Slovenia; I hope that this will be called the Styria region as most of us wish; it has shown that this region is still more at the beginning of development if we look at 12 statistical regions, as I correctly remembered the propaganda video of the Government, which revolved around the Habakuk Hotel, was in seventh place. And any investment in this region can, of course, be welcomed to the extent that it is right, effective in giving what is expected of it. I'll speculate. The question of emissary could also be addressed more broadly, not just to you, you are just one of those actors who was at the first meeting with a company that is willing to invest or is supposed to be willing to invest in Northeastern Slovenia, the amount of this investment being around €1 billion and is expected to employ 2,200 people in the first moment. We can imagine what this means for a region like North-Eastern Slovenia. I don't know why the services of the National Assembly wanted to prevent me from asking this question because billions of euros was not supposed to be an all-Slovenian matter, but just a local matter. I don't know, with such an investment, it seems to me that this is more than just a Slovenian matter. I would like to appeal to the Government and also expect your response in this direction that the Government supports such investments in northeastern Slovenia. For it seems to me, as already my fellow Member, Sasha Peca, that the Government has chosen this part of our country as its "offshore", which is untouchable, where no one can but the Government. The question was, who is Damjan Kolletnik, who are the people who are recruiting for the government. And I can continue to say who those people in the Šentilj municipality are after they have been trained. Who are those people in the Šentilj municipality who allow themselves to be held by meetings of the Slovenian Democratic Party under the auspices of humanitarian action. And all those "offshores" we represent here in northeastern Slovenia can't afford. And it is you, Minister, who is in charge of local self-government, and I hope that you will prevent this from happening in the future. Some people there receive such credits that everyone here would be happy to draw up their own personal development and to develop the individual political option that is in government in a particular case of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And if we let go of an investment, such an investment, as is predicted, in this region because of some of the interests of this government, it seems to me that the people who live there, including me, will experience great injustice and disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking, too. Now, of course, from the point of view of local self-government autonomy, we cannot interfere with the decisions of individual municipalities, because this would be completely contrary to what we want to achieve, and these are certainly autonomous. However, as far as economic development is concerned, as this is obviously the case, I must say that it was within the framework of the implementation of the Oreh Economic Centre, which is one of the major economic projects or the central economic project of this region, that one of the potential investors visited. And on the basis of the invitation of the local communities visited by this investor, we also took part on behalf of the Government and presented opportunities to support such investments, of course, when we are talking about serious investments. As far as these numbers are concerned, it would be difficult to comment because in the part where I was alone in these interviews, the numbers did not go in this context. However, that serious willingness to support such investments is probably the very composition of the delegation, which in some way represented the Government in these interviews, which can attach to it. In fact, if I may say so, the delegation has been led by the Minister of Economy, who is probably also the most competent for such investments at the state level, along with a service that is actually concerned with promoting foreign investments. I myself have been involved in this delegation, particularly in view of the fact that we have presented the possibilities of co-financing such investments in terms of cohesion funds, namely cohesion and structural policy funds. Also present in this delegation was the State Secretary of the Development Service, who is actually coordinating this investment. It was also, if I recall correctly, the Director of the Directorate from the Ministry of Labour, as it is a matter of new jobs, training and some other competent individual services, I think also from the environment and space, because it is necessary to provide locations for such investments. We in these interviews, at the invitation, as I have already mentioned, local communities and in my behaviour have looked at quite a few potential locations, presented opportunities to support such investments, and certainly the prepared thing is. In this case, when we're talking about serious investments. Now, in my opinion, activities are being carried out in relation to local communities. It is true, however, that there has also been said to the potential investor that the next step should be taken, that is to say that it is true to present the investment, to say what the investment brings and also to say what are the possibilities of supporting such investments. And if, of course, the investment is what we want it to be, both in Podravje and in others at the moment of statistical development regions, therefore it is still the name Podravje, by the way. It is true that Podravje is in Styria, but there are also several other statistical development regions in the area of Styria. And like in all other environments, I'm sure that this kind of investment in case they're serious, I'm sure this government favors it. Finally, projects go through, on the one hand, the Resolution on National Strategic Projects - I have already mentioned the concrete Oreh project, which is networked - this means that individual investments are sub-projects, within major municipalities and, on the other hand, also a support environment, which goes also to local communities. They can also make it easier for them to support these investments through a system of direct initiatives, which we have also substantially strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much. And my friend Zagorac. Before I give you my word, allow me to point out that I agree with you that the tendency to prevent the imposition of a written and oral question by administrative co-workers is completely inappropriate, and I believe that this will not happen to you in the future, nor to any other Member or Member. Now you want a further question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. And even here, the complementary question institute would benefit from a wider debate on what development potentials are, who are the people who influence the fact that something is happening in northeastern Slovenia? Also because I believe, Mr. Secretary, you who have responded to me today are the only ones who have done your job properly. You are the ones who coordinate local communities, although I must say here, from all these local communities comes mayors, who are representatives of government parties, but who were very apathetic about this investment, did not know where to turn, but I believe that you led them on the right path. In order to get the word of the person responsible for this, it is said, Mr Vizjak, I propose an extensive debate, because I have a feeling, even on Magna's side, as I recall, at this meeting or as I have been informed, that one of the lobbyists who is possible a government lobbyist was present, and that such an investment could happen very quickly, I would say, as all things in North-East Slovenia have gone their way, or somewhere else, and not to where, I believe that the investor's intention is to go. Because, as I have already said, strange things are happening in northeastern Slovenia, or this government is doing strange things, it is empowering strange people to wrong places, and this is certainly not right and proper for the development of a Maribor region, a Styrian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you, too. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you for saying that again. If I may just have two more sentences. As far as the debate is concerned, in some ways it is also taking place in all statistical and development regions through the preparation of regional development programmes also at the implementation level. It is true, however, that there are also local environments, on which it depends to a large extent on how active they are in these matters. However, I must say that I am convinced that the Government is leading a balanced policy in all areas. Last but not least, the economic centres, which are 9, if I know it, are distributed evenly throughout the entire territory of Slovenia. So, practically future landscapes will get at least one of these. As for the remaining funds, but also from the point of view, for example, our services share these direct incentives evenly, evenly, according to, say, the Development Hazard Index. In this context, we also follow the fact that more resources are allocated to those statistical development regions that have several such development problems. And I just hope and believe that through concrete projects things will go in this direction, that in this part too the development process can run much faster. Particular attention has also been paid to attracting foreign investments. It is true, however, that in this work it is also necessary to look for and find those real foreign investments that truly bring added value, including technological development and all that Slovenia wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you. As I have already said, I would procedurally require an extended debate. I think it is fair and correct, given that in this case it really seems to me that both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Members of this National Assembly are representing the same objective, it is said that it is the development of a region or we can help a region to further develop. And it is true that in this case, Minister Vizjak, who is not here today, seems to me that it is right to get the word of Minister Cotmanov, and tell us all together what such an investment would have meant for such a region if it had happened. It is right to talk about this; it is right that we are aware of it; it is right that people know about it. Unless, as in most cases, the government has no interest, no interest, no desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you. We will vote on your proposal in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And I give my word to Ambassador Marian Drofenick. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Podobnik, the other ministerial assembly, Members and Members. The question is this: What measures have been taken by the Ministry in the area of housing problems, especially young families in Slovenia, and in particular what measures and solutions are planned for the future? To justify this question a little bit: in Slovenia we have been facing the phenomenon of prolonged youth for many years. This is due, on the one hand, to a lengthy study and to the associated benefits of student status and to difficulties in first employment. On the other hand, young people often do not take advantage of affordable housing on the market, and for this reason the solution to the housing problem is extremely important, since it is undoubtedly also a family decision to provide their own apartment. But, of course, within the family, as is generally known, birth is one of the key problems of Slovenia and one of the main threats to economic and social stability in the country. What measures is the ministry planning, Mr Minister, to address this issue more effectively, especially when it comes to young families? Are there any proposals for solutions that, unlike many so far, will really and effectively be effective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you, too. Minister, I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Drofenik, for the issue of housing. I agree with you that solving this issue is extremely important. As you said, your assessment that the phenomenon of the extension of youth, the result of which is a very long-term study and also a problem with first employment, is then combined with affordable housing, perhaps one of the reasons, even more important reasons why young people choose their own family. That is why I will try to answer your question, which solutions we are assessing, within the framework of the Government or the Ministry of Environment and Space, in order to stop these trends effectively. My answer is also related to the content of amendments to the law, which will be dealt with within a few days for weeks in the National Assembly, which is the amendment of the Act on National Housing Savings Scheme and subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue. This is the name he has, which is the first solution to the housing issue. Our main motive for amending the law was to increase incentives for the self-sustainment of the housing issues of young families, but we have also introduced an important novelty, which is the sub-chapter of rent subsidies. It is intended, however, to facilitate the resolution of the housing issues of those young families whose parents have already successfully completed either college, university, master’s or doctoral studies. What solutions, then, do we foresee that we will actually be effective? A change in the law defines a young family as a living community of both parents and one parent with at least one child who is not yet required by school, this is said to include single - parent families around young families. Secondly, we will set a higher income threshold for obtaining subsidies at the level applicable to the acquisition of a non-profit rental apartment, so we believe that a larger number of young families will be able to apply. Thirdly, we, by law, will also progressively bind the subsidy to the number of children. Also, the size of the apartment, which is considered a suitable solution to the housing issue, will be linked to the number of family members. And fourthly, and very importantly, we will extend the purpose for which families are entitled to the subsidy, in addition to buying or building, which has been so far, we will also introduce the possibility of the purpose of reconstruction or the change of destination, this has not been subsidised so far, but it is necessary to say that construction is also necessary for this operation. Speaking of common spaces, attics and so on. The amount of the subsidy, which will belong to the young family member, will be determined by the Government with a decision, so it is not an integral part of the law itself. As has already been said, the new sub-chapter we are introducing is so-called rental subsidies. It's meant for a young family, and I would just call it a student family, who after the end of the study at least one of the parents solves the housing issue by renting an apartment on the market. This means that at this sensitive moment, when a student family, which is generally not yet in employment, and also lacks enough savings and thus the possibility of buying or building apartments, we will allow it to pay more easily the market rent, this will apply for two years. However, we have limited the study time to a maximum of 28 years of age or 30 years if it is a doctoral study. In addition to these measures, of course, as Minister, I still firmly believe in the work of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. I am firmly convinced that Slovenia needs non-profit rental apartments and here it is, of course, a key player in the Slovenian housing market, an apartment fund, and this role complements well in calls, i.e. in contractual relations, when it together builds non-profit rental apartments with Slovenian municipalities. I hope that these measures so far and some of the new measures that we are introducing in amending the law will also be really effective, for which you ask me in your question, Mr Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you, too. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u121	Good afternoon, distinguished Minister Podobnik. At the 8th regular meeting of the National Assembly in July 2005, I asked you about the possibilities for dealing with the problems of families living in residential housing. At the time, you accepted an in-depth study of the initiative committee of housewives, in which you were introduced to the difficult situation in which they came after denationalisation and proposed some possible solutions. You promised to examine the issue carefully and in a short period of time you would propose to the government a new law, and before that, you would invite the representatives of the housewives to the interview. Recently, we were able to follow up the appeal of a group of people living in residential homes in order to move something in their problems and to resolve their situation. According to your ministry, there are supposed to be some 100 such families, and their common denominator is in particular uncertainty and fear of losing their housing rights to themselves and their children. They are disappointed that the ministry has not responded to them at this time or is ready to help them in any way and if, how and at any time. Dear Minister, I am of the opinion that the Ministry's silence is inappropriate and that it would be right for this group of citizens to pour pure wine. Finally, such conduct by your ministry is not in the spirit of an ethical code that you personally signed before you took office as minister. So I ask you: What are your results of more than 20 months of examination of the amendment proposal and the addition of the housing law that was submitted to you in June 2005 by the Committee of Housewives and can the Committee of Housewives and the affected in due course expect any proposal from the Ministry to address the problems of this category of people, and if not, will you at least tell them clearly and unequivocally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, Mr Vice President. First of all, I would like to tell you that I am aware of the hardships of people living in these housing units, especially with regard to the uncertainty attached to the moment when they will either go to a retirement or maybe lose a job and go to another job, because the current housing law puts them before a certain situation that they have to decide for themselves. I want to tell you that we haven't held hands in 20 months. In addition, we have looked in detail at the actual number of these apartments in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that, in cooperation with the managers of major residential complexes and also according to the data of the board of housewives Ljubljana-Maribor-Škofja Loka about the membership of the registered tenants of former residential apartments, we have reached a fairly accurate level of data, so we estimate about 250 such apartments in the Republic of Slovenia. I must also tell you that there has not been a decision at this time to amend the applicable housing law. But this year - by summer - I am obliged to prepare for the government a change in the housing law. As part of the preparation of this amendment, I will certainly have to answer these questions. When I went through the answer I gave you to your question, in fact, regarding the formal basis for my answer, there was no change. The fact is that housing is a right of use under the legislation that has been in force for the last 16, 17 years since 1991. For these apartments no housing rights have been acquired, because according to the content of the law, household housing is always treated as an office apartment related to the time of the work of the household. The law also defined this as co-owners of one or more housing units and placed in the transitional provisions a provision whereby the users of residential dwellings who do not perform any more household functions, as I have already mentioned, are obliged to empty the household apartment within one year without having any premises to them unless otherwise agreed with the owners of the house. Here was the marriage to them, we can say, even unjust. The law also stipulated when a householder should be evicted from his home, whether for retirement or for reasons that did not arise on account of his fault. In this case, however, the rent of a suitable apartment must be provided by the congregation. The law that we passed four or five years ago - in 2003 - places housing among the common premises of the house, while there are no other provisions of this law on the subject. Most of the tenants who lived in residential dwellings in 1991 still live in these apartments. There have already been several cases of lawsuits for their eviction. It is true, however, that they are particularly burdened by a high-market rent for which the formal basis is in the applicable housing law. I must also say that in my written reply to the Ombudsman's findings on this subject in the past year or year and a half, I have actually taken up the existing findings of the law and in a similar manner answered the question that I sent you 20 months ago and as I answer you today. So what choice do we have? One would be the path of so-called alternative privatisation, but the precondition for it is the amendment of Article 173 of the Housing Law. Because the solution to the anology is to use it in a similar way as those so-called denationalists - residents in this law, according to legal interpretations, would not be possible. And when we did the calculation, at that time we calculated exactly what that means in a financial sense. On the basis of the current estimate of the number of dwellings made last year, it would be strong to exceed 2 billion Slovenian tolars. That would be the cost. To tell you the truth, in the context of the current budget, for which I am responsible in the area I am covering, I do not currently see this money. In any case, I will reexamine, even in the context of amendments to the law, the possibility of being guided differently. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] rent in these apartments. [[...]] So that these tenants would, however, be partially burdened by paying a very expensive rent. It is based on the current Housing Law. I'm sure I'll get to know you. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your time is up. Complementary question, Comrade Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, even this time, as last time, you are kind in your answer. Just, at least the janitors, if I'm not asking, are much more interested in actions than in explaining what the content of a law you must know and where and what should be changed in order to solve problems. I expect that in the definitions, what and how to do, in the next two months you will really have a clear position. To say what is possible and at the same time to say that this is not actually possible, because once the law has to be changed, which is clear. For most things, the law has to be changed. Once we say that there is no money in the budget, but this money has not been in the budget since 1992, when the Housing Law was adopted, because this problem is being repeated annually, in one way or another, and is being renewed, of course, but perhaps if the decision is taken this year, it could be in the 2008 budget. Talking about high rents that are a real burden for him, but not the biggest, because the biggest uncertainty about housing is. Mr. Minister, I would be grateful if you could give us a more concrete answer today. If not, it has already been said today, I believe that in those two or three months, it will be said by July 15th, and you know that the National Assembly is functioning until spring, that you will have a concrete proposal and that you will discuss and explain the options ahead of this proposal and find certain solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you, too. Complementary response, please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u127	I'll definitely do it. I would like to say that my colleagues or co-workers of the Housing Sector have been in written and close communication with this association. It is true, however, that they were directly told that this is a key substantive, conceptual issue of the current law. It's about work apartments - they don't have housing rights. If we make this exception in this case, perhaps there will be prejudices for any other groups of people who have also lived in so - called service homes. The point of the office apartment is that you're just using it for your time of work and that you're not directly bound by another law in force, which also allowed you to privatize it. Apparently, it's a dilemma that's been a long time and it's not new. Last but not least, we also have other groups of professions, which also did not get the right to apply under housing law in order to go into this privatisation. This question is a serious question, I will not run away from it, but the change in law in this case also has financial implications. If it were proved that they would be such that they could be bridged within a few years, and if such an agreement were to be within the framework of the Government, I would not object to such a proposal. However, I was also informed that the municipalities would not agree to a solution in order to make this difference between relatively high - as we said - for some high-profit rents - in order to cover the municipality, so that I also have to provide additional budget money here, if at least this option were to be found temporarily. Thus, in both cases, I am also committed to finding a financial source in addition to the substantive solution, and it will not be easy, but we will certainly try to find at least a partial solution in order to resolve this crisis or, as you yourself said, the uncertainty for the future of these families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The following asks the question of Mrs Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Generations of students and students from year to year are falling, and this trend will continue and also this year, as we have witnessed this. This has long been known for the fact that, as a result, students and then students will always be fewer and fewer, making it so important that we take this fact into account when designing our education policy, we are aware of it, and we have prepared appropriate answers to this. Therefore, in the light of this, Mr Minister, I ask you for clarifications on the reforms that you intend to implement in the near future in the field of Slovenian education; in particular with regard to the definition of your attitude towards public education, to ensure the proper status of teachers and, in particular, to address potential surpluses due to the decline of generations of students and students, on the one hand, and the additional pressure that we can expect from private schools in view of the changes envisaged. It is difficult to understand, and it is difficult not to be concerned about what will happen on one or the other, and even after the outflow of students and students that we can expect, into private schools with our public education. And that is why I wonder: Do you take into account the limited number trends of students and students in the expected changes? And: How will you ensure quality public school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you, too. Minister Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for your question. In summary, you are interested in my attitude towards public education, the issue of the status of teachers and the staffing surplus in the context of any envisaged changes or reforms. It is true that, even if Slovenia did not have as many demographic problems as you have gathered them well, reform would be meaningful and necessary already because of some processes that are taking place in the school space and generally in society. Finally, the Lisbon Strategy also says that virtually all European national school systems need to adopt some reforms and that there is no exception to Slovenia. I have repeatedly said that I am an advocate of the public network of public education, but at the same time I must not oppose private education. This is a trend that is common in the world, and this norm, we set this standard even during the first fundamental reform in the 1990s, when a white book that defines, say, private education as an enrichment of school space. In this context, we also understand development or some of the envisaged changes that will remove some key obstacles to the development of private education. Even after this white book, the state must create conditions for the development of this segment, not just public education. Today, the Ministry of Education covers not only a formal school system, it means not only a public network but also a private one, plus a series of informal forms of education and also opportunities, so we are talking about the concept of lifelong education and its competence is virtually wider than we might conclude at first glance. However, the concern for the public network is certainly not the only concern of the competent ministry, although it pays the highest attention to it. The status of teachers is determined by a number of activities, from the collective agreement to the legal normative environment, which sets out the teacher's status. This status is related to or related to this status other derivative concepts such as reputation, respect enjoyed by this profession in the public eye. The fact is that this immediately socio-economic situation of the teacher is favourably resolved, solidly arranged, so that the major problems in the realization of this, and even in the case of payments of course, are not all from 2005 onwards. However, some other elements of his authority in society are, of course, linked to his role in the pedagogical process itself. We can say that, in the context of the deregulation process and the autonomy of the school space, we have increased the role and importance of the teacher. I am sure that the system environment gives him some appropriate status, but it is true that in a post-modern society with various forms of cross authority, not only with the teacher, but also some other professions that have been in classical industrial society or in classical modern society are highly ranked and respected, are losing this role and meaning in modern society. What could be done at a systemic level, we have done and I am sure that from this economic, social point of view we are well cared for for the favourable status of the teacher. To what extent these latest trends you have discussed may affect the situation and the surpluses, nor is it a matter of school policy [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As such. [[...]] The fact is that managers already have, under the Labour Relations Act, general reasons for determining or enforcing procedures for the identification of redundant workers, as well as the ZOFI, which very precisely discusses the reasons for determining workers’ surpluses, that more or less the procedure is clear that they have regulated it in law, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Before I perform this task, and here the school system must comply with the rules. [[...]] More or less, the director has most of the tasks in this area, along with the council and the union [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. So, as far as status is concerned, I don't fully share your opinion, maybe the economic status is regulated, but it's certainly not the only element of the teacher's status. Surely the status of the teacher is not entirely appropriate. On the contrary! Teachers are often even threatened, sometimes even physically threatened, and this and their view are part of the teacher’s status. But let's leave it now because it's more of a systemic nature. I'm interested in human resources surpluses. What exactly are we gonna do here? Will teachers, those who are no longer needed in school, be fired, or are you planning to reduce the number of students in the classroom, thus contributing to the improvement of the quality of public education, or do you have any third solutions? This is all the more so because we can expect this possibility of private schools to be essentially a milestone for the establishment of Catholic schools. Look, on the one hand, you are now funding all schools 100%, and on the other hand, you are banning it from doing so, so it says in these materials, tuition, and at the same time you are not investing in private schools, you are necessarily setting up a patron - someone who will have an interest in this school to continue to finance. And because of this, you have not said for the last time that it will probably not be much, because even in the best Catholic times in Slovenia private schools there were not many. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To that end, we can really expect this to be a milestone for the establishment of Catholic schools, and on the other hand, so many more teachers will be out of work. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. So today, there are two main reasons for workers' surpluses. One in particular in the field of secondary education is the abolition of programmes, if there is no interest, but the programmes are terminated and there may be a reason for determining surpluses. The second is, of course, a poor demographic picture, or about 1,600 children less than last year’s in school meals. This means a few schools and, of course, it brings along so many and so many teachers who do not have a job. So that's the objective reason and the procedures for this are legally established and they were already before I got to this job. What we intend to change in marriage is the same funding system, 100% funded private education, introduced in the first half of the 1990s. And this concept of private education remains ahead. With ZOFI, 85% of funding was then introduced in 1996. Since then, we have practically two funding systems for the same thing, which is pointless. This is why we have introduced or propose a single funding system, including so that this school can be equally accessible to all so that high school fees do not have to be paid. This is the key reason why we have decided to do so. So, the demographic image is the one that's making us extras right now. This is the main reason, slightly less elimination of programmes, especially those that are not accepted by the market. For example, I bear as Minister only partly responsible with all the other Slovenians at this moment. What I'd like is for the unemployed or these surpluses found to be surpluses to be as low as possible. We can boast that we have managed to consolidate the financial school treasury. That we first consolidated that big hole that was created at the end of 2004 and in the next or current financial perspective by 2013 we provided 177 million euro of additional fresh money for the school system. I'm sure part of that money will go to restructuring teachers as well. I would also like to stress this: this money will go for various programmes in the field of education and education and is the largest fresh money that has come into the school space. Also in the last two, three years according to the proportion of GDP in Slovenia [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] She's far above the standards she's set in recent years. [[...]] So, as far as this is concerned, the status and material conditions of work in education are not poor. Never [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue to ask questions. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister for Environment and Space. As Slovenia is known to the public, recently, the government approached in some way to give consent to the document, which means the initiation of procedures for the construction of the pipeline from the Romanian Constance to Trieste. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I believe this letter of intent was signed by Mr Vizjak, Minister of Economy. The Government shall justify the signing of this document by the non-binding nature of the document and by taking into account all environmental requirements in the design, construction and operation of the pipeline. In addition to Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Italy and Romania signed this agreement. The pipeline in large part across Slovenian territory, which will take place in approximately 35 kilometers, also covers the area of the classical mother Crassus. It is an extremely sensitive area where nature is extremely sensitive and very specific and also rich from a nature-friendly point of view and ground is permeable and sensitive. Dear Minister, I ask you: How will you ensure or how you will place the envisaged pipeline into space, taking into account the fact that in the past we have already had a number of projects in Crassus that have been hampered by various obstacles, which were significantly less questionable from an environmental point of view, even though they represented a specific development perspective for Crassus? Let me mention problems with setting up a golf course, problems with the so-called runway formula 1, not to mention that it was not possible to set up any power-generating windmills. This project, or this facility, is much more complex, significantly more demanding from a natural point of view. So I seriously ask myself, ‘ How can it even be placed in a karst space?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Comrade Terchon. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much, honourable Member Tarchon. On your particular question, how will we ensure that this very sensitive space of Crassus will be taken into account in the eventual placement of this infrastructure facility in it - in only one way, in order to take account of the very strict European environment, and thus fully of the Slovenian environmental standards that it introduces for this, necessary legislation. As Minister I am aware of the exceptional sensitivity of the area covered by Crassus, I am aware of its great vulnerability, as you yourself said, of its varied nature and cultural heritage, as well as of historical facts. One of these is that so far it has generally been protected from major projects, as it has somehow been touched only by road and rail connections and there have been no major ones. As you have already indicated in your question, however, I stress that the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this document was regarded as a classic act of political will to address problems related to the supply of EU and the wider region with hydrocarbons, including oil or petroleum derivatives. The signing of this document does not mean the initiation of the construction of the pipeline from the Romanian Constance to Trieste and then the earlier in the direction of Genoa. The government, in particular as Minister, will insist that no such document binds governments or states to the realization of such a project. This has also been confirmed by the European Commission - until it is ready for all acceptable documents, which, of course, will express, as I said before, very difficult criteria for environmental legislation. This component, this part is also an important segment of the signed declaration and it is understandable that under such conditions only the European Commission was then a signatory to this letter of intent. If I had signed it, I would have swallowed a very sensitive position of the European Union that the environmental dimension should never be at the expense of a development or energy project. Therefore, as a resource, we will consider the initiative extremely carefully, the State Spatial Plan, if we receive it and, of course, within the framework of the legislation in force, we will also agree that the debate will be public, that there will be public divisiveness, that we will take into account the new Spatial Planning Act, that we will carry out a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, with a key assessment of the acceptability of protected areas under the Environmental Protection Act. If I am a formalist, such as the Ministry or our authorities, of the initiative to put this project into space we have not yet received, no decision has been taken on the initiation of the proceedings. However, if this process starts, we will pay particular attention to the vulnerability of the karst aquifer, which also depends on the supply of water from Slovenian Kras and Slovenian Istria, if I mention at least one important element of this broader assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you, too. Complementary question, Comrade Terchon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say that you have said so much calmly, answered my question, but nevertheless; experience teaches us that in such matters we must also be realistic. I think that this fate of this pipeline is also linked to the energy thirst that Europe will have in the future, with the power or the power of interest that will be common to Europe over Slovenia. What am I trying to say? It is difficult to imagine that if all the other countries and the will of the European Union are as political as the other ones, the economic one, that I do not aim forward, was strong enough, I find it difficult to believe that Slovenia will prevent the implementation of this pipeline, which is long, I think is over 1,000 kilometres long and that it will be difficult to stop at these 30 kilometres. And, of course, here's where I'm asked the basic question. I said a few projects earlier, which are completely minor in comparison. And I don't want you to get into a situation where we're gonna be forced to put this in space. Let me also point out that there are very lively initiatives to make the whole area of the parent [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the classic Crassus, Crassus with a large beginning, in his diversity and wealth, entered into the UNESCO World Heritage List. [[...]] Since there are real pressures that we can face in the future, I would not want us to be in a situation where this is a necessity and a fact of implementation. Because then he'll remain a very bitter taste. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That we couldn't do the projects, and we had to do it somehow, which means the profession is gone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I believe there is no reason for us to predict in advance that we will receive bitter tastes here or that the procedure will force us to conclude the process ourselves by placing the pipeline in space. This coercion you are talking about is absolutely linked to procedures, procedures are relatively complex, and in particular include public disclosure. And here this principle of the Aarhus Convention is one that will be very important in terms of local communities, environmental organisations and all. You are right, the European Union's energy desire is reality, here must also be a realist, and I think we are realists too, but there are more ways to satisfy this desire. And if the current procedures for the installation of this oil corridor show that there is no way through this beautiful area of Crassus, it will not work. Let me also quote from the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, which states exactly how the pipeline corridors will be determined: "The pipeline corridors across Slovenia are planned when they provide public benefits in the area of spatial development in the spirit of sustainable spatial development." This formulation is interesting. "For the purposes of Slovenia's involvement in European energy integration", this could be - "studies of spatial installation of pipelines whose corridors are envisaged through the territory of Slovenia are being prepared." And then there's another sentence. "This checks functional and technological aspects," - modern science and technology knows a lot - "space adaptation to urban development and compliance with spatial conditions." The last two are very important. I am confident that we will take all the legislation in force into account in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ministers, colleagues! I myself would like to ask the Minister of Economy - which is not here today and I would also like to ask at the next oral meeting - namely, Italian radio and television stations, which have been working peacefully for more than a decade for more than a decade, on all the international frequencies that have hit deep into our territorial territory. And Slovenia is so much more affected by the low-level position and the coastal position that we can find that Italy is deliberately violating such matters because it does not have this defined in its legislation and is party to a number of international agreements that it does not respect. The images are so full of lines and distortions, and this is particularly a major problem for commercial stations, because ratings are falling and thus the possibility of survival in the field of advertising. As has already been said, in view of the eclectic violation of the rules on the use of frequencies, it is necessary for the Slovenian Government to solve this problem in a way that is only possible in the international diplomatic language. So either a diplomatic note is issued at the level of the two governments, or an agreement is reached at the level of two ministers or two government representatives that will stop this practice. Given the pressing problem, this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. For if we do not, what is happening to us, the Slovenians, through national television we can still watch the regional television Koper, which we are all paying for, only the Italian program, without subtitles in Slovenian. Therefore, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister: When and what will he do in this direction? How will the measures follow: will Slovenia initiate compensation actions and will we also solve such a problem within the borders of the European Union because neighbouring countries have the same problem? Last but not least: the mountain transmitter, which is built with our resources - Italy does not allow the signal to be transmitted. There are, of course, arrangements.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by my colleague, Sam Bevk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! For many years, cultural workers have been reminding us of the large wage imbalances between employees in social activities. In culture, the national budget provides salaries for about 2,500 employees. In particular, there is a marked backlog compared to those in education. Thus, the librarian in the school library receives more than €400 a higher net salary than the employees in the same job, with the same education in the cultural institution. The Slovenian Museum Society, with a petition, pointed to this unresolved issue, as I know, and this initiative is also joined by other employees in culture. They responded to the petition from the Ministry of Culture, where they are aware of the problem, and at the same time say that, together with representative trade unions, creators and cultural professionals, they have achieved that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its negotiating proposal for the wage classification of indicative jobs, has provided for a relatively maximum correction upwards for the area of culture, namely the level of salaries in education. Workers in cultural institutions are convinced that they have been in an unequal position in wage grade since 2002 and that, despite some corrections, they remain on the tail of the salary table. As the wage imbalance under the Public Sector Wages Act is only about to begin to end, I ask you, Minister-respected, Dr. Virant: When will this process actually begin? And: What fate awaits employees in cultural institutions? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you for the very current question. The process of eliminating wage imbalances or introducing a new wage system in the public sector began in 2002, with the adoption of the Public Sector Wage System Act, which provides that for the majority of employees in the public sector, wages are regulated by a collective contract for the public sector in which so-called indicative or typical jobs are classified in the wage classes and all other jobs are regulated through collective contracts for activities and occupations. The key to entering the new pay system and eliminating wage imbalances is, of course, the conclusion and implementation of the CAPJS, i.e. collective agreements for the public sector. The negotiations run for the fifth year, I am sure that the vast majority of employees in the public sector are looking forward to it and are already impatient and dissatisfied with the fact that negotiations have been going on for so long and that this discontent is shared by the Government. However, a collective agreement requires consensus, signatures of public sector unions on the one hand and signatures of the Government on the other. Over the past year, we have made great moves to bring government and union positions closer together. With most trade unions in the public sector within their negotiating group, we are so close that we estimate that we could initial or even sign a collective agreement for the public sector in May. However, one group of trade unions in the public sector, organised in the Confederation - as you probably know - is the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions of this somewhat - whether or not I will say it has placed higher demands on the Government's conviction, requirements that cannot be met. The Government is interested that the collective agreement is signed as soon as possible in order to ensure that those who have been lagging behind in their wages receive what is theirs and that those who have been employed in culture are undoubtedly among them. To illustrate, according to a government proposal that is largely consistent with unions, wages rise in the following percentages: librarian 12%, playwright 12%, playwright 16%, soloist 32% in symphony orchestra, drama champion 12% and so on. In fact, culture is the sector, the activity in the public sector, which has been the most backward in the past and is therefore the biggest gain in the new system. The concept of harmonising wage imbalances is set out in such a way that all employees in the public sector, including us, with all of us sitting or standing here, cancel one part of the regular annual escalation in wages and this is collected in a so-called disproportionate fund from which these activities, which have been the most backward in the past, will be the most received. One part of this money will also contribute to the state budget, depending on economic growth or real productivity growth. We're counting on reason on the union side. Today's event, this is a forecast of a police strike, is a step in the opposite direction, a step in the direction that makes it difficult to conclude a new collective contract for the public sector, but I have already said several times, the government here will not listen to arguments of power, but advocates the power of arguments and a reasonable compromise and a response between the trade unions and the government. For the public sector collective agreement to be in force, we theoretically need most of the public sector unions. But I have also said several times that we want a wider coalition of unions, so that we will not only be satisfied with this group, let's say 18 unions, which represent the majority in the union negotiating group, but we also want to sign under a collective agreement by one, maybe two, at least the unions gathered in the Confederation. However, if possible, by all public sector unions. That would be optimal. And a very specific answer at the end. According to our plan, we would enter the new pay system with 1 January next year, if we entered into a collective agreement for the public sector in May, this could be possible. And the January salary, i.e. the January 2008 salary, would have already eliminated 1/3 of the gap between the current salary and the target state, the target salary. What I used to be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] Presented. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Buddy Bevk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Just one month ago, the Slovenian Museum Society addressed you in writing on these issues, so I think it would be good to - and even in the coming days, as the month has passed - also in writing reply that they will have a black on a white assurance - also what you have just said - and I am pleased that the wages in culture will increase. It is clear that you are committed to harmonising the pay system in the public sector as soon as possible and that the law is being implemented as soon as possible, but on this occasion I would like to remind you of the regulation setting out the conditions and extent of the part of the salary to pay for the increased work in the public sector which was adopted last November and which I believe that individual employees in the public administration are being rewarded over the pay system. Therefore, in this second part, the honourable Minister, I ask you: To whom is this regulation intended? How many of the public servants in this title are paid more? What are the criteria, whether it's a suitable party card or something? And: From what budget line do these increases come? In fact, wages can also be increased by 35% under this wage regulation. However, I think that there is also a provision where the government can set a substantial increase on its own, so that somehow this does not go together. In one part, you are committed to eliminating these wage relationships and, on the other hand, encouraging them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you for that question. Of course, no party card is required for the payment of the increased amount of work, as far as I am aware we no longer have a Communist Party in Slovenia, nor is any other customer card required. The salary of the increased volume of work is a normal element of the flexibility of the pay system. In fact, when we say that we want to create a structured and transparent pay system, we don't want to say that we want to create this and a bureaucratic pay system. There must also be enough room in the new pay system to pay for those public servants or groups of public servants who work more and better. The fact that such stimulation also allows for subjective judgment, even abuse in the extreme sense, is likely an awareness that we are all aware of, but it would be pointless and irrational to give up this fear to a system that is good and urgently needed. According to the new pay system, it is envisaged that one part of the payload is regularly intended for work performance. This payload in recent years is and is likely to be only 2% in the coming years, this is a very low mass, and from here on out it is possible to pay an increased amount of work, provided that we create certain savings in the individual person of public law or in the budgetary user. So if we do less work, if we do not realize all the planned jobs and get a certain amount of money saved from this title, of course we can divide it among those who are more burdened, who work more and better. I will always say that we use this mass to pay those who work more and better. In addition, the regulation allows that if the government decides that a project is of national importance, for example, the Presidency of Slovenia of the EU, specific budgetary resources may be allocated to such a project. And so far, we have two projects like this. The first is the EU Presidency of Slovenia. This is a period in which many employees in the public administration will be extremely burdened, and you will probably agree that this should also be properly evaluated. Another such project is the elimination of waiting lines in health care, and the third such project that we want to implement is the abolition of judicial backlogs through the same mechanism, the better payment of those involved in the project. In my ministry, at our Ministry of Public Administration, we are among those who pay a higher percentage of this increased volume of work, compared to other budget users, and therefore I am not ashamed, but I am proud - because of this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] because we have a lot less employees than the government has measured for us with a human resources plan, so we reduce the number of employees, and we devote some of our savings to paying the best and the most successful. [[...]] And we ain't nobody yet [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The next on the list is Member Milan Petek. Your question is addressed to the Ministry of Finance. The minister's not here. You're still going to ask a question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u155	I will. Thank you for your word. So, I sent the question on Friday, but today I'm reading it because I don't have an address here to talk to him a little differently than I do in a text like that. So, the text is: "From press releases and from your answer to a question from one of the participants in the final meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with economists and politicians when visiting Maribor it is known that the Republic of Slovenia has addressed a request to the European Commission to maintain an 8.5% VAT rate for the construction, renovation and maintenance of housing facilities. I would therefore like to ask: Does the Government have any information on the stage at which the Government's request is being assessed in Brussels, and is it expected to be a favourable solution? For future housing buyers, and especially for young and socially weaker families, there may be an increase in housing prices due to VAT equivalence with other products, a existential issue. It is also a key issue for investors and builders to increase VAT in housing planning. It is known that housing is one of the most diversified areas, so the tax rise will also affect many industrial industries and service providers involved in building and equipping housing. In short, action or failure on the part of the Government will have an impact on the entire housing market, so I believe that the Government is obliged to prepare in due time a proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences. On your visit to Maribor, you have spoken rather vaguely about the Government's planned actions, so I ask you to give me more details: What activities does the Government carry out and what measures will it take to mitigate the situation if the European Commission does not comply with Slovenia's request? So that was the text of my question. Because I will not be present at the next meeting in the context of the questions sent, I am giving up the Minister's oral reply. I also give up my written reply because after browsing the Ministry of Finance's website on today's web page, the Latest News, the Press Centre, I found that today they are publishing the answer exactly the same as my question, to my question in the section of the Press Statement, which means that I have received the answer. I hope that this answer is also due to my question, if not, I am pleased that the Government is therefore ready and is preparing for the consequences of any rejection of this role. That's why I'm giving up the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you. Mrs Breda Pecan will ask the question of the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like to address the question to Mr Vask Simoniti. I would like to say that I have carefully examined the Film Fund Act of the Republic of Slovenia over the past week. I also found on the Internet a financial plan and a programme of work of the Film Fund for 2007 and found that both the law and the financial plan and the work programme are clear and unequivocal. The Film Fund was established in 1994 as a public fund with the aim of transferring to it the implementation of the national cultural programme in work covering film production and reproduction cinematography and the implementation of film festivals and the award of cinematography awards. Article 5 of the Act also makes clear what its tasks are, inter alia, to collect proposals for co-financing of programmes and projects in the field of cinematography through public calls, to conclude with selected programme managers and projects in the field of cinematography of the co-financing contract, to take care of the development of reproductive cinematography as cultural activities, to monitor the state of the cinematographic network and to take and implement, where appropriate, measures for its consistent development and to promote the supply and distribution of artistic film. It also plans in detail the Film Fund itself in its work programme for this year, where it specifically stresses the importance of promoting international links in order to spread the film market and attract additional sources of funding, both public and private, and that the Film Fund is the only legal entity that thus ensures co-financing of film and or audio-visual actions, or the events of other festival and other events, workshops and education, and devotes 26 euros to other festival and other events and education organisations this year. In doing so, the programme provides for the distribution of these funds to be carried out by means of a monthly decision on the use of the planned funds. It should be noted that at the end of April and the above-mentioned continuous public call is still not found in the Official Journal or at least on the website of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Individual film festivals and other events, workshops and education are or will take place now. Let me be more concrete, now established and high-quality international film festival Kino Otok - Isola Cinema will begin on May 31st, because the public invitation is not yet, no one knows whether they will be able to apply for it at all, because no one in the Fund knows when the call will be published at all. And now the question, Mr. Minister: What do you think and suggest as Minister of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia in the event that, due to the circumstances prevailing in the Republic of Slovenia Film Fund, the largest international film festival in Slovenia now runs out of state resources?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. So, the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is a public fund, a separate legal person. Therefore, the implementation of public calls and calls for tenders shall be in the hands of the competent authorities of the Film Fund responsible for them. According to the information I have received, the activities in this direction are in progress, as well as with the Otok Institute. Let me mention that the programme provider film festival Kino Otok Institute for the Development of Film Culture Ljubljana, which this year also successfully participated in the public tender for the cultural tolar of the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, let me say once again that the representatives of China are in contact with Mrs Nina Peca, who has been informed of everything and is also assured that she will receive certain funds. It is therefore more than premature to discuss and work out final conclusions on the implementation of the financial plan and the programme of work of the 2007 Film Fund in April. At the same time, I would like to point out that in Slovenia there are at least 12 film festivals, but in Europe more than 800 and these festivals, which are all of them - it seems to be the most important - are also established in our country, but it is good that when they are established to fully anticipate all costs and effects and consequences, not to rely primarily on the country. This is because it is not entirely self-evident that once the candidates have received these funds, they will be once again. However, as I said, the management of China Island has been informed about this and also the Film Fund and are in agreement that they will also receive certain funds to carry out the festival within the framework of the possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The following asks the Member's Complementary Question? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u161	Yeah, I'd like some more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u162	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u163	So, Mr. Minister, I would ask you not to use sarcasms because I don't know why this is necessary. However, I would like to say that, despite the fact that the public fund is a separate legal person, it has been set up by this National Assembly, its leadership, which consists of the majority of the members appointed by the Government, is said that the Government, in particular the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for this area, should be on an ongoing basis that the tendering conditions, the public calls as usual, may be otherwise applicable here, so that the funds which are tendered cannot be allocated to certain actions or certain activities that have taken place before the tender was published. And that's why I'm worried because you have to be here, or at least I hope you know that the Kino Otok - Isola Cinema Festival has allocated funds to the municipality of Izola more than twice as high as it was, say, last year's allocation from the Film Fund. So you don't have to worry that they're only counting on state funds. In addition, the signal or concern came right from the management of the institution, and I think, Mr Minister, given that we both know who the spiritual father of this festival is, unfortunately, already the late Silvan Furlan, who certainly incorporated part of his grill film and creator into this festival. This festival is no longer a baby, and I think it's a good idea for us to devote some thought to it. And I'm asking you, is it going to be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Well, it's not my responsibility to say whether I'm going to allocate or not, but I would like to warn you that no matter who the spiritual father is, it doesn't mean that then forever and always some festival can run, depending on his quality, I'm not going down in this case. Above all, we know very clearly what the criteria for film festivals are. Many festivals actually wear this name, but for the festival, having a festival is a completely clear international criteria of what it means, what movies to spin, not on DVDs and the like, but leave it at the side. It is right that the congregation is funded twice, even more, about 14 million 800 contributions from the congregation, reaching the Ministry in last year about 5 million, I do not know what it will be this year, this is the thing of the film festival. And like I said, there are criteria, and there's no guarantee if someone once got that they'll get the second time. Of course, it must follow certain qualities, and if so, they will likely be able to listen where they decide to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, both ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, climate change, which today is much written about and talked about, is no doubt no longer a coincidence, something that happens sometimes. If we are witnessing an analysis, for example, only this year in April and March, then we see that weather change is not a coincidence, but a fact that must also be adjusted accordingly by serious and responsible policies. During these months, farmers across Slovenia have been re-established to pay damages for last year, and we can no doubt also talk about the concept of drought in agriculture in 2007. That is why, I think, so much more up-to-date content is meant to be amended by the current Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents, which has recently been brought to the attention of the public concerned. And, of course, there's a lot to talk about how to assess damage and how to make payments. We realize that there's always too little money for these things. However, if these are changes that are supposed to be in line with the European legal order, then there is certainly a very controversial and questionable idea in the context of today's funding for municipalities that compensation should be drawn from municipal and budgetary reserves, which I do not think can be covered in any part of this, mainly because of the amount of money allocated. I am also interested in: What will the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food do now, we have been talking about a mutual insurance company for agriculture for years. A while ago, we were convinced that the matter was also ready and in the cabinet drawers. I want to know what this mutual insurance company is like, and what is it like to set up a risk fund? Of course, only these two mechanisms of happiness, disaster, drought and other natural disasters in agriculture cannot prevent them, but they can undoubtedly be mitigated and mitigated in some way. As the new minister, I ask you: What is your view ahead? With the stories of the past, for which there is no doubt that you are innocent or guilty, we will not burden you. But I am interested in your view of the future: How do we get into the light of the coming climate change of this problem and how, as it is said, to grab the bull by the horns, because it will leave some grass and pasture for him? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, too, for this important question. So, as you yourself have found, the drafter of the amendments and the addition of the law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, the Ministry of the Environment and the space with which our professional services have recently participated intensively in the preparation of the amendments to that law. According to the information I have, the main open issue has become just taking into account the European Union's provisions on State aid, for insurmountable natural disasters or for repressing insurance premiums and additional incentives compared to unsecured farmers. The ICGP’s professional view is that insurance natural disasters are not subject to additional State aid, but are only co-financed by insurance premiums. Of course, this is a professional view for the time being. A particular problem may also arise in this law in the use of water for irrigation during the drought period, which we are also trying to settle. Otherwise, at the Ministry, we believe that it is necessary to regulate and definitively harmonise this law with State aid rules as soon as possible. In particular, it is necessary to regulate the topic in the agricultural sector in such a way that we will report state aid schemes to the European Commission, as this institution does not, in principle, recognise systemic laws, but requires the intervention of individual concrete aid programmes. For the EU-level agricultural sector, it was proposed that, in accordance with these guidelines, any agricultural holding affected by natural disasters or adverse weather conditions be justified if the level of damage exceeds the 20% threshold of normal production in the restricted area or 30% in the remaining areas. The notification of aid measures should be adequately prepared and also demonstrated by accompanying meteorological data, which will also probably require additional equipment for meteorological services. In view of the operationality of the implementation of the provisions of the future law, the ICG also proposes that this period of summation be 90 days, which would also equalize the time for certain other provisions in this law. As far as the insurance project is concerned, according to my information in the draft, it has been prepared, but with the insurance premium regression system, it has been temporarily suspended as an easier option to demonstrate the actual impact of this measure. In 2006, according to our data, the ICGP regressed by SIT 420 million 30% of the insurance premium for flood risk, storms, spring drifts and grave calculations, the physical volume of protected areas was increased by about 10%, that is to say 20 to 30%. The Regulation on co-financing of insurance premiums allowed local communities to add from their resources to a total of 50%, i.e. they added 20% of the premium to the insurance premium. For 2007, the percentage of the country's regression increased from 30% to 40%, and for local communities it is also allowed to finance this premium up to 50%. Data on the total area of the insured are not yet available. This year, the scope of the insurance also extended to livestock, namely animal diseases. But the details, as you know, are in the regulation itself. The issue of the risk fund, which has also been mentioned, is current together with the Mutual Insurance Facility project, as it is inseparable related works and would essentially be intended to cover damages which would be greater than the premium collected. So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you, too. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I must say that I am partly satisfied with the answer, because things are going in the right direction, including by increasing the proportion of areas that are protected year after year, I think it is the right way. But I would like to tell you some practical facts from everyday life. In the event of an accident, it is doubtless true that someone has to quickly, twice, and therefore, in these proceedings, the matter must be reduced to the lowest possible extent possible, in particular, I think that the agricultural ministry must have one of the decisive roles here, because the view of the defence or the ministry of space and environment is different from the view of farmers living directly from this and depending on what they have to put in the pot tomorrow. Procedures should be streamlined, simplified, less red tape. I remember the list of droughts for 2003. At that time, those who applied had to report to the congregation three times for formality. I'm interested in the criteria for this year's grant of aid after the drought. We have repeatedly said that we advocate in Slovenia, for example, vegetable production, fruit production. In the municipality from which I come, 11 of the 41 applications were rejected, and of those 11 are the majority of those involved in the production of vegetables. I don't think that's right, because someone who grows salad has been affected by the drought just as much as a neighbor who grows feed for livestock or any other agricultural crop on the same plot half a metre away. I am surprised that all the mountain pastures and agrarian communities have been excluded from this. These are all structures that are extremely important for rural settlement and preservation of the cultural landscape and contribute significantly to this multifunctional role of Slovenian agriculture, which I think is extremely important.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you, too. Minister, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ambassador, just for a moment. I fully agree with you with the conclusion that someone gives it fast twice. So, as you know, it is at this very time that some damage is actually being paid for the past period. The Ministry is also working with other departments to prepare materials with the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, which will assess the situation in this area in the future, and the recommendation of individual measures has also made expert recommendations to farmers. As you know, we will also give special priority in the rural development programme for the next period to this sector in terms of co-financing of irrigation systems and supply-side networks. We will also try to further strengthen the area of premium insurance, insurance premium financing. With regard to your conclusion on the work of the expert commissions in the past, I'm afraid I have no data, but then perhaps I can answer you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you. My colleague, Aloise Sok, will raise the issue with the Ministry of Economy. The minister's not here. You want it anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Since there's no minister, I'll be very brief. And I will, I expect the Minister to answer me at my next meeting. I hope that something will help, but first of all let me welcome the ministers present and the Members who are left. I would simply like to ask the Minister of Economy: Does he, as a minister, support the bioethanol production project at the abandoned Sugar Factory in Ormož? Indeed, there has been a lot of talk in the restructuring process about the production of bioethanol, but now that this issue is somehow to be realised, it seems that this project is somehow moving away, although the whole of Europe is talking about renewable energy sources. At this point the case is such that the factory, as regards the production of sugar beet, is actually closed and that Slovenia, in addition to the rare exceptions within the European Union, has only agreed to completely suspend the production of sugar beet. If, of course, the ministry supports the bioethanol project in Ormož, I would like to know: What is the state of the ministry's position on excise duty, the level of excise duty, and what can as a ministry itself in the introduction of the project act to achieve this realization? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you, too. Colleague Slavko Gaber will raise the question of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr Minister, I ask you, as I wrote in writing, when a proposal for a law on higher education and research development came to the public: in what way will you strengthen the autonomy of higher education, as well as of research institutes, and how many experts and experts proposed from the four Slovenian universities and the words of the three largest institutes in this country have participated in the drafting of this law. Why do I ask you that? Because it is not clear to me, Mr Minister, that in this law, which is intended primarily to allow for a better flow between researchers, between research institutes and universities on the other hand, there is so little incentive for this to happen, so little of what would encourage stronger, better cooperation between these two identities in this country, we both agree, I think that it is almost not in the country which would not agree that this flow should be more. I also wonder: How is it possible, especially if these people were involved in the drafting of this law, that in the law it is a good number of interventions to the autonomy of higher education, I do not know how the idea is that the university directors, who will eventually negotiate with the government about how much resources the government will make for them, call what the Government calls? I hope we will not hear that this is one of the contributions to the greater autonomy of higher education in this country. I also don't understand: how is the idea of autonomy by interfering with the ownership rights of universities in this country, how can this decade under the heading of increasing autonomy, under the heading of increasing the efficiency of higher education, abolishing the financial autonomy of universities, radically interfering with the so-called Kosovo funding? In short, Mr Minister, I don't think I'm the only one who's surprised that such a law has seen the light of the world. I wonder who prepared it, on what kind of professional basis is it based?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u179	[[...]] [[microphone not turned on, low volume]] Thank you, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. [[...]] First of all, thank you for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u180	Excuse me. You can switch in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u181	I'm sorry. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member. Your question, first of all, as far as autonomy is concerned. If you look at; above all there are two things, and obviously we are talking about what autonomy is, of course our views differ considerably. We came mainly from the position of the Constitutional Court in 1999, and it would be very good to examine exactly what financial autonomy is and how and how it is decided, and of course to compare the laws of the European countries on this financing and what autonomy is and how these countries view it in the financial field, we can make a peaceful comparison, of course there is no time in these minutes, so of course we have this comparison and we are always available with it. As far as autonomy is concerned and the university is primarily the autonomy of professors, researchers, and research institutes, it is the autonomy of these people who carry out research, learning, knowledge transfer, learning and the exercise of their university. And if this autonomy is guaranteed, then the university is autonomous. Self - autonomy itself, with which much is spoken about, is based on what individual autonomy is. And if you read the exact difference in article 12, which defines autonomy, then you will see that the first indent is mainly different, and in the first indent this is written, which in that previous law is missing, because autonomy is linked to the autonomy of teachers. And if I can read to you exactly, this 12th article, I don't think it's time to do this right now, but anyway, the first indent of Article 12 guarantees autonomy to higher education teachers and researchers that they are autonomously, independently, without restrictions and pressures to explore, teach artistic creation and impart knowledge. There's no such thing as ex-marriage. They're only talking about general autonomy. And here was the main resort where the problems were all the time, because the Deans, the Rectors, the Directors took what they had for autonomy, but it was a monopoly. Then, in Article 13 and Article 14, when colleges, departments can decide on their own. There's no compulsion, and they can make their own decisions. So here we give those who truly create and who really do research, who really teach, autonomy. As far as financial autonomy is concerned, I particularly stress that financial autonomy is linked to responsibility and transparency, and if we believe that such a way as it has been so far, justifys the trust that we should have in these universities, then I must say that in the financial work it is, in my opinion, very confusing when we have processed more. [[...]] And the fact is that financial autonomy requires quite good intervention, quite a good negotiation, to know what and who pays. The fact is, the ministry, the state has to say what it wants, universities, universities, research institutions have to say what they offer, what capacities they have and how they think they do it. And how can these capacities be done, certain things are done and done, and then funds are set up for that. These are perfectly normal conditions for all countries in Europe to know exactly how to determine funds. There are no secrets in the agreements here, and that's the point, because universities and institutes complained that they were getting money just like that. And if you look at a regulation like now that in 60, 65% gives the universities basic annual resources, OLS, to some number that was created in 2003, which is completely out of every context, in which there is no reflection of how many professors or what their situation is, in short, completely out of context. On this basis, it is still being shared under this Regulation. That is why we have put a little more order into this matter, and I believe that it is a great contribution to autonomy, because it will be known who is responsible for what and how much money this money earns and the university will be able to have completely free, including a 40-hour worker who is prescribed to do so because there will be no more hiking for as many programs as possible, but they will be well distributed and we will also get fewer programs, and we will have more professors for that lesson. In this respect, this law is certainly a significant step forward in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Comrade Slavko Gaber, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u183	Look, Mr. Minister, I asked you very precisely who wrote this law, whether the universities participated in it. I asked you to give me the names of the people who were involved in this, who have been proposed by these universities, and these institutes in this country. I didn't get an answer, I guess that's why you don't have one. But I hope you'll be able to answer now. Let me remind you that it's not too easy to talk about "loump sum budgeting." Your colleague, who sits in these premises now, as far as I know, is working very seriously to make Kosovo funding part of the system in secondary schools as well, and if it turns out that this can also be done in primary schools. From the Dutch model forward, financial autonomy in Europe began to become an integral part of the autonomy of the university space at university level. The struggle of universities for this has been ongoing since the beginning of 1988 for the autonomy of universities not only the right of the professor to speak, which he believes is the closest truth, but that he has the means to do so, for his normal work. It would therefore be very good if the project were to be done in the manner it is appropriate to take part in and participate in all the strengths it has. I hope I get some answers to that question. I asked you three more questions, I didn't get an answer to anything except that you explained to me something that wasn't quite clear about the autonomy of universities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you. First of all, that's what we've explained everywhere. The law is not yet in public debate. The law is in the part where it can be complemented by professors, universities, institutes and the like, so all the professors, all the researchers, all the experts who are at all universities can participate. The law will not be in public debate until 15 May. That's the first thing. This draft proposal will be prepared by Dr Jambrek, Dr Trpin and Prof Jerovšek, together with our assistance at the Ministry. So much for that. As for the rest of you, I think I answered. But the fact is, I repeat, autonomy has succeeded with transparency. And I fully agree with you that a professor must receive for what the state or founder thought was appropriate, funds, and then, within these funds, independently explores, teaches, publishes and decides, but is limited by means. If that is not true, I regret that you were not in the debate when Mr Moze asked the question. The issue of autonomy and accountability has been raised eloquently there. If someone has, as you call it, autonomy and has the means without being responsible, then of course things are very, very tragic and can be very unpleasant. And in order to avoid it, to learn to do what is proper in this system, this law was created. I am sorry that Slovenian universities are not among the five hundredths in Europe. If Slovenia is the 13th country among the best countries in the world, this country is the 13th per capita per income, this country is in the first group, the best group of eleven countries after the ICT qualification, but it does not have a university among the five hundredths, then something is obviously wrong. And if this is, we know, a very long process, and you, Mr Member, have been Minister for a long time during this period and during this period the universities have fallen out of five hundred, then something is wrong with this system. Which means we need to put the matter on a different footing. It turned out that this system, as it is called, gave autonomy the importance of inviolability, unfortunately, that model did not work. So much for my answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u187	Mr Vice-President, I would like to propose that this State Assembly on the Minister's response hold a debate. The reasons are obvious. There are more. Mr. Minister, I hope that in the final preparation of the marriage you will be something more precise than in the present performance. Lump sum budgeting, or Kosovo funding, has been in operation since 2004. To assign rankings or not rankings to this, using only the one that is most unfavourable for universities, but forgetting other measurements, where these institutions are better positioned, I don't know what it's worth. I have no quarrel with you. What worries me, and I think that the National Assembly can also worry about the fact that instead of strengthening autonomy, we take autonomy, instead of increasing responsibility, here I agree with you, we will increase the opportunities for dependence, because if you withdraw Kosovo funding and do so with the concept of law, then the universities will not become accustomed to responsible public funding for a long time. These funds, however, range to billions, tens of billions of dollars in this country. If the basic concept of law is the fragmentation of the university when both of them know that, for example, the French universities, the Danish universities, the Norwegian universities, that the European Commission thinks so, when they are trying to perform together in a wider world space, then the concept of law is only misled in the wrong direction, if I say so. Therefore, I ask you to support yourself a serious reflection on these issues, because it is more than what one of us thinks, the question of what this country will be in 20, 30 years' time. In a conflict with universities, no country in the world has ever prospered in conflict with university space. By suggesting that we support this proposal, I think tomorrow we will be voting about it, the day after or when and we will have a serious debate. However, I ask you to include in the drafting of legislation those affected by this legislation. Now you've made it clear to me that no university has ever been involved and no institute, that's sad, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the first round of questions sent and are moving on to the second round of questions sent. The text is addressed to the Minister of Economy, who is absent, by Member Samo Bevk. You will, however, take it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In January this year, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy supported, on my proposal, the efforts to establish the European Information Research Centre of the European Union for mercury and to register the technical heritage of mercury on the UNESCO World Heritage List. In this regard, the Committee recommended that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopt as soon as possible a programme for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring after the finished closures in the Idrija mercury mine in closure, thereby allowing for the continuation of activities relating to the establishment of an information and research centre and the entry of an inheritance into the Unesc list. At the same time, it must also be said that quite a few problems, namely that the Government has not yet adopted an operational programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine in closure for 2007, although the 2007 budget has long been adopted and the Government has not adopted an operational programme. On this account, the company had to commit itself, hired a bridging loan so that it could continue with the closure programme of the Idrija mine, which I hope will be successfully completed this year. It is therefore necessary to adopt this operational programme for 2007 at the Government in order to enable the mine to be definitively closed, and in particular, the government must adopt a programme to maintain the bulky part of the cave and to monitor after the finished closures in the Idri mercury mine for the period 2008 to 2012. My question to the Minister of Economy, Mag. Andrej Visiak is: When will the government adopt an operational programme for 2007? When will it adopt the 2008-2012 mine closure programme? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you very much. My colleague Martin Mikolič will ask the question of the Minister of Environment and Space Janez Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-regarded Minister, colleague and colleague! I refer the question to the Minister for Environment and Space and also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am addressing the issue of cleaning and regulating the Sotle River, which is also a border river between Slovenia and Croatia. Under the Water Act, Sotla belongs to the list of first-order waters managed by the State. When Sotla took over the role of the state border in 1991, there were no measures on it, especially in terms of cleaning and regulating the Sotle. It is logical that after 16 years in the stream there are many different floods, which are primarily the reason for Sotla to cross the stream with a little larger rainfall. The needs of the Sotle operation, which borders the Municipality of Rogatec and Rogaško Slatino on the Slovenian side and the Municipality of Hum and Sutli on the Croatian side, should be urgently implemented. Flooding Sotle causes damage to residential and, above all, economic facilities, both in Slovenia and on the Croatian side. I was also informed by representatives of the Croatian economy and local communities as the mayor of Rogatec. Since Sotla is the border river of affairs, we certainly cannot solve it at the local level, but at the national or interstate level, which is why I would like to introduce the problem to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Sotla, because of these problems in some parts, is on the left and the right bank in some places even changing the stream, and that is why I want the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be involved in the issue. Due to all the above facts, as well as to maintaining very good neighbourly relations in this part of Slovenia, it would be necessary - both from Slovenia and Croatia, to take appropriate measures, as well as to avoid looking in a few years for the border between Slovenia and Croatia on this part of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I will answer in that part that touches on my responsibility in regulating the river border. I would also like to say that it is precisely because of the fact that Sotla belongs to the list of waters of the first order, one of the reasons is that it is a border river and here the country has in some way a special responsibility to resolve certain issues. In particular, you mentioned issues that are also related to flood safety, but also to some other elements that are linked to the life of each river. I am pleased that your conclusion that good neighbourly relations apply in this area, I am aware that the leaders here also work well together, and I myself support the operation of water services. I would also like to say that important work has always been done here through the permanent Slovenian-Croatian Commission for the Water Economy. We are planning to meet both the Commission and the Sub-Commission, as it has, as a rule, confirmed on this body the work envisaged. I've only got some information in front of me that's related to your question. This is information, and I will also hand it over to you later, because in writing what works were done in the framework of regular maintenance in 2006 and also in previous years, and what work we are planning for this year. We have found, like you in your Member's question, that on some parts of the river there are critical blue corks and also selective, vegetative cleaning of the right bank at individual critical locations of Sotle between Dobovac and Rogatec, as well as in Diavica, this is a settlement between Rogatec and Rogaška Slatino. The assessment of the works in this segment amounts to €40,000, and a proposal for investment and maintenance works for this year and next year is also being prepared. Something also depends on the dynamics of the water fund itself, which we are carrying out in our ministry, and we have included the following investments: first - concrete rehabilitation and rehabilitation and modernisation of regulatory facilities, the Sotel Lake barrier, this was assessed as the first priority of 42 million tolars in last year. Then the two smaller investments of Sotl in Podčetrtek, the repair of the damage to the lower cave dam and the upper cave dam, are both about 20,000 euros. I would also like to inform you that activities are continuing on the Sotel Lake Lake Lake Lake Lake Lake Lake and also reconstruction works on the facilities themselves. A special study also identified the conditions for re-examination [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the Sotel Lake to take account of the new needs to maintain the basic destination, which, of course, remains the retention of the Sotle high-water wave, and thus increase the flood safety of the lower-lying settlements, especially if I mention the Sub-Four with tourist facilities. [[...]] The angle of permanent lakes obviously remains at a height of 202 meters above sea level. The Special Review Commission has yet to confirm it. Several Directorates and other competent authorities have already met on the theme of harmonising activities in the design of a spatial development strategy or a national location plan to place this tourist use in the space and also in the very project of reconstruction and lakement of the accumulation of Vonařa. This year we will prepare a professional work and the Institute of Water will also prepare additional professional elements so that we can go into realisation. It is also very important that the Water Fund in 2008 will enable this important project, which also represents an additional tourist incentive for our tourism economy, to be successfully implemented. As a few questions have been said, the work of the permanent Slovenian-Croatian Commission is also related, and I will commit myself to meeting as soon as possible this year the Slovenian part of the Commission, as well as the subcommission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u195	I thank the Minister for his answer. I also really expect the answer to this question from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Because, as Minister Podobnik has mentioned, the leaders are very well involved in this work, here I fully agree, but some things might have already been done, or the project documentation could have been prepared and so on, but somehow, I would say, operationally then everyone is speaking, and this is what I am saying from the local level, yes, because, at the interstate level, there is no agreement at the level of the foreign ministries on how to deal with matters and I think this is a very important issue for us from the local level and I do not want it to be determined when everything is prepared on your side and financially supported, all together, that there will be no example here, such as it was on the Muri River, which I do not think should be precisely because of the interest of one party and the other, that it is precisely because of preventing these economic damage on one side and the other side of the matter. Above all, this aspect, as I have already mentioned, because I myself have seen the matter on the ground, that the river really does touch the shores and also in certain parts changes the stream. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask you a question from the Member of Parliament, Dr Slavko Gabra, who will raise a question from the Minister for Education and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I ask you a very simple question: I am interested in your view of changes in education, of systemic changes, in fact those who are directly referred to as reforms in professional literature. Why would I want to know? This is because when I read these bad 7 pages of those that are on the Ministry's home side, I cannot find adequate or satisfactory answers to the question of how to deal with the question that you have already discussed with one of my colleagues today. Faced with a very serious issue of the network of public kindergartens and schools in this country for a long time. I have heard your reply that there is a legal procedure to which direction an attempt should be made to address these issues, that there are also certain entities of this regulation. However, it seems to me that when we discuss the network of schools and know that we have fewer children, and we know that we want to keep Slovenia covered with a certain network, it is difficult to say that by increasing funds for private schools, it is easier to manage it. I am not saying that there is no need to do anything in this particular area, including in the field of private school regulation. However, it seems to me that a serious debate is needed on what is the priority of the Ministry of Education, what is the country's priority in this area. It also seems to me that it is a very serious issue of choice in schools. It seems to me that even when we find that there are problems in this area, it does not seem to depart from the basic idea that selection needs to be increased, but not reduced. Similarly, the issue of teaching foreign languages is a very serious one. There are not many countries in the European Union - here I have this statistics - that would introduce another foreign language as compulsory, especially not as unprepared as we are at this moment. I am interested in how we will achieve the greatest possible use of the time we have to teach a foreign language, how we will achieve that as many people as possible will know at least the first foreign language well enough. I list the issues that I consider relevant, and we will probably agree on that. I list questions that require very serious attention [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] expert debate. [[...]] I ask you: Are you prepared with the professional public in this country, including with other political options, to approach the production of the White Paper that this country needs to develop further [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of the Beast for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Dr. Gaber. If I start from the end, I am certainly ready, and preparations are being made at the Ministry of Education and Sport for several months to issue a comprehensive document, even a few more documents, including in preparation for the Presidency of the European Union. I personally invite you to join this project, which will also involve important global and Slovenian experts who will describe their vision of the further development of the Slovenian school system and education in general. I also think that one such reflection is necessary and necessary because Europe itself does not have all the answers to what will happen with the development of the post-2010 location systems. During this decade, Europe has also developed a series of mechanisms and processes that are practically contributing to the convergence, the ever-increasing convergence of national school systems, probably never before been as rapid, interesting the dynamics of these processes as we are living in this decade. In part, the Lisbon Strategy has also influenced this and requires that virtually all European national systems approach thorough reforms, and Slovenia is only one of them. It is true that what we are doing now with these two novels is not about some fundamental reform, as some are trying to show. The main reforms, thorough, you carried out in the 1990s, including a 9-year-old, could be said to be a thorough reform and the reform of vocational education was reform as such, which had some structural characteristics. These changes that we are now introducing can also be viewed by someone as reforming, but in fact, I think they are important additions and changes that take time, as well as processes that are taking place in our European space as well. I would hardly agree that foreign languages in themselves can or the application of another foreign language in the last triad can find us unprepared, especially because it is [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the child has already exercised this right in the selection course, so that we have the human potential and also some kind of practice that this novelty or this change would not be a shock to the Slovenian school system. [[...]] On the contrary, we would like even more, not only to introduce another foreign language into the last triad, but we would also like to introduce, based on a study carried out by the Slovenian Institute for Education, a system of early learning of the foreign language by an integrated method, where a few times a week, say 20 minutes later, students in other subjects would listen or contact, live in contact with a foreign language and thus open doors to the entry of the foreign language into the school space as early as possible, which is also one of the recommendations of the European Union and also the OECD. We are aware that this will not be possible overnight to make this change, but we are obliged to do so not because of the principles, not because of the European Union's requirements, not because we have yet another language indicator to measure the knowledge of another foreign language, but, above all, we want to make it possible for all participants in the primary school, especially all children, or to equip them with basic knowledge not only one but also another foreign language, which, of course, will not be like the first foreign language, not because of difficulty, but because of the scope of the hours, but will have completely different approaches. The choice, as you know, will not be reduced, because we will also allow, if parents and students require it, at an individual level the same extent of selectivity. As far as private schools are concerned, you are the main steps in the field of private schools. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A lot more years than I have. I have practically not taken any concrete steps in this field. What we want to introduce is basically what comes out of the concept that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Additional question, please choose colleague gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Comrade Beast, I am pleased that what we have heard here will be a document that will have very simple elements in it, on the one hand, a thorough assessment of where we are after more than 15 years of this country, where we have come into the field of education, if it will have another element that is needed for the White Paper, this is a comparison with other systems around us, at least across Europe, and, of course, we will be much easier to assess also the proposals we have. If we do not rush without really having these contexts clarified, it seems to me that you will do a great service to this country and that we will all act responsibly together. I think what you're preparing, what's written here, is among the reforms. True, reforms were also what we did in Slovenia in 90 years. I use Michael Fulan's definition of what reform is. Around this, it seems to me that it would be good in Slovenia to simply and professionally agree to name things with the right name. That will make it easier to discuss all specific issues. I support the idea that, as soon as possible, the first foreign language will be taught as quickly as possible. I also support the strengthening of another foreign language. The only thing that seems questionable to me is whether another foreign language really has to be required for those who can barely do the first one and we're going to get problems for them in the first place. As for private schools, let me just say that. My view is different from yours in one piece. I think you're moving away from the concept of a white book in one very important point: What's that? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-23-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u202	Time. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, do you want to answer or [[...]] Then I would like to thank you very much as all the ministers who have responded. Thank you, too, Members of Parliament and Members for their participation. I interrupt, but we do not conclude this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday 25 April at 3 p.m., when the four questions raised by members of the opposition and members of the ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. I am adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much and good luck until then!
