ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, I ask you to take your seats and calm down. Thank you. I begin with the continuation of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Milan Petek, Mitja Slavinec and Mr Jožef Školč. We are moving on to the first item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members Under this item, Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, will answer four questions from members of the opposition and from the ruling coalition. The first question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potter. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. I don't know if you've been listening to the reports this morning; the most common news is raising prices for meat and milk, but October's incentives are not over, so it's predicted that the growth of living needs will not settle so quickly, realize and beset by people's concerns, sometimes indignation, is justified. From the data on high economic growth, Mr President, you have made an assessment that we are doing better than we have ever done before. It even sounded like we were living in a golden age. Those who drew attention to a slightly less glamorous picture of reality and, in particular, to the key question of what citizens and citizens have to do with it were not desirable. When data on high inflation and inflation were published, the government tried to reassure the public that it did not jeopardise the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and in the opinion of the Minister, the reason for high inflation was not to be sought in public finances. Economists are looking for causes of inflation in different directions, one in the high growth of living needs, for which there are mainly external causes, the other in the interior; these are overheating the economy and excessive state investment spending. That's why they're not united about the government's responsibility. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that a number of decisions have been taken in this mandate, which has made the scissors between the poor and the rich even more open. The number of those barely earning is too high, and the thinst layer of the richest and other negative consequences of the poverty of entire layers of people are not felt. Twice you have rejected the Act on the participation of workers in profits and the promised government proposal is not yet on the horizon. You have passed the Law on the Coordination of Social Transfers, which we have opposed to the Social Democrats, and so before the end of August, we have taken the initiative to bring social transfers into great harmony - we are still waiting for an answer. The percentage of those who have either wages or pensions on average is worrying, especially because the average is also low, so it would be possible to take a dragan supplement as a possible measure. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I therefore ask you, Mr President, with what measures does the Government intend to mitigate the negative effects of high inflation, especially the rapid rise in basic cost of living, on the social situation of at least the most affected population groups? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you for asking first. It is true that Slovenia has higher inflation compared to other countries of the European Union, especially the European Monetary Union, and far from having the highest inflation, and has the lowest inflation compared to Member States of the European Union that have comparable economic growth. So the Government does not even underestimate this problem and has done everything in its power at this time to make the situation better. However, the Government, for the first time, cannot influence the conduct of certain internal entities and has recently come up with some unjustified incentives. Traders took advantage of a situation that arose after the introduction of the euro, after the end of the period of double price labelling and the world situation, when, in general, Europe, as well as most of the world's countries, is faced with poor harvesting and rising food in global markets or food raw materials. These are not as high as in some cases reflected in the prices of final products, so some of these increases were unjustified. However, it must be openly acknowledged, however critical we are to traders that this is not the basic source of these incentives or the inflation figure in Slovenia, the main reason is mainly in higher energy prices. The current price of oil is significantly higher than the forecast and forecast in both Slovenia and Europe, and the price of oil or energy in Slovenia, which is a relatively small economy, but we are entirely dependent on imports, which has a significant impact on inflation than in larger economies. In the use of those instruments that the Government has in hand, we have done everything possible, the government has reduced excise duties on oil derivatives to the practically lowest permissible limit under European regulation and this has contributed to the calming of inflation in September. The government has also sought all reserves in terms of reducing the budget deficit, which will be significantly lower this year than was adopted under the budgetary documents. At Saturday's meeting, the government also reduced the budget deficit significantly for the next two years in view of the 2008 budget already adopted or for the forecasts made last year for 2009. So it would be difficult to find any point where the government did not react or where the government did not use the instruments available to it. As regards the impact of inflation on those with the lowest income or general population, it is important to stress that this data cannot be excluded from the entire spectrum of macroeconomic image in Slovenia, as data show that wages have increased by 4.8% not only nominally but also realistically, both in last year's year and in the first seven months of this year's year, by 5.9% nominally in last year's year, by 2.8%, in real terms, by 2.2%, and in this year's year's first seven months and by 2.4% nominally in real terms. So the standard doesn't fall behind. The number of those receiving minimum wages is also falling below the poverty line. Slovenia is third, from the top down, according to the number of people living below the poverty line. Only two countries have a better result as far as that is concerned. This situation here, as seen in European comparisons, is not critical. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They exist also because social assistance and social transfers are aligned with rising or rising prices of living needs, and also because they are [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u5	Mr. President, time's up. Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President, for your answer. But it shows that there are no real analyses yet, even though Minister Bajuk has announced it and says that this analysis shows good. Nevertheless, I think you agree that the causes are external: grain and oil. It is also not clear from this that the Government is planning specific measures and the Strategic Council has recommended some measures to the Government. This is not about "saltlanding", as one of your ministers said; this is philosophy, and I am talking about economics and statistics. It would therefore be expected for the government to actually do what is at the level of a serious problem. I stress, the problem is serious. They point out that statistics on poverty, which have been very beneficial for Slovenia for some time now, do not reflect the actual situation that the percentage of those at risk is significantly higher. 31% of employees receive only an average or average salary. So two thirds is worse. Trade unions predict their path of rescue and the pressure to raise wages, also in line with the degree of productivity in each sector. However, they cannot handle things themselves, and consumers can follow the advertisements in which big traders claim how much and what products they have left at the same price level for one year as they have been, but do not tell whether those who are human, family and family are most needed. I think that answers to questions that are very serious should be found, and I would expect the Government's concerns to be greater.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u8	Therefore, given that the Member State had said that the Government had not followed all the advice and had carried out all the measures it had been advised to take, it would have expected it to mention at least one, but it did not mention any. I would expect it to be said which action the Government has not carried out. The government carried out all the measures outlined by the Strategic Council and recommended by other economists. There's not one I'd forget about. Moreover, in three years of this mandate, this government reduced public spending by practically 3%. Our coalition goal was to reduce public spending in four years by 2%. In three years, we've reduced it or we'll have it by 3% at the end of the year. There has never been any savings in public consumption before, and this is the first time that there has been significant savings. This all affects better management conditions as well as higher standards. The government has reduced the income and average wages in Slovenia due to the tax changes introduced last year, by a few percent higher this year, on average by around 7% - including those with lower incomes. In this mandate, when it comes to social transfers, the government has taken many measures that substantially increase social assistance to those who are really needed, not flat-rate, as it was when many received it regardless of actual needs, because things did not cumulatively add up. A number of measures have been taken and these measures or the results of these measures are reflected in statistics. Everyone can say that I do not believe in statistics, but since 2004, when Slovenia is a member of the European Union, it has to take into account or take into account the model of this space, including the European statistical regulation. Our statistics are no worse than those of other countries, and here we compare ourselves. And it shows that data is improving or that the situation is improving. I am also surprised at the fact that some were not concerned when economic growth was as inflation is now, and that inflation was as economic growth is now. Now the situation is reversed, and the matter is critical!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Madam Ambassador? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u10	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. In his reply, the President of the Government built on averages and on certain measures, which also have negative effects. The fact that we have not proposed measures is out of the vine because some of the measures we have proposed and we have not received an answer to them. Many believe that wage coordination is only a fraction compared to what could be achieved by the participation of workers in profits. This government has done nothing here. Social transfers, which you say are regulated, are not consistent because social transfers, which are linked to the growth of living needs, also coordinate work rights, which should be coordinated on a second basis, are coordinated once a year. According to Umar's forecasts, economic growth will be 5.8% this year, but inflation will also be 4.3%. It is irresponsible to refer to what has happened in the past, at least for those who want to take us into the bright future, because the government wants to rule to improve, not to bring things back to worse or to invoke and apologize with what was once. That is why I think that this debate should be held in the National Assembly, seriously considering the things that concern the population, which ultimately concern ministers and ministers, because they have sworn to act for the well-being of all. Those measures in the framework of the tax policy you spoke of, however, respected Mr President, have had a beneficial effect on the richer; those who have less income and who are on average less than they are certainly not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to her question, the National Assembly will decide today, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda or at the latest at 19.55 a.m. The next, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, will ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government! In recent days we have been following in the media a number of comments on the design of a logistics holding company, in which Germany's Deutsche Bahn is also expected to participate alongside Slovenian companies Luke Koper, Intereurope and Slovenian Railways. I therefore ask you: How does the Government intend to protect the interests of the Slovenian economy and protect its influence in Luka Koper and in the remaining two companies operating public railway and port infrastructure? This is why I ask you because I understand that the situation on Slovenian railways is in a catastrophic state and that the appointment of two State secretaries to the Slovenian Railways Supervisory Council has not helped to solve it, but it is obvious that only the problem on Slovenian railways has become even more complicated. But on the one hand, we have a possible entry into the strategic partner that is now emerging, Deutsche Bahn, on the other hand, there is a fact that Luka Koper is a natural monopoly that is not privatized in economic theory. Secondly, that the Slovenian holding company does not enter any company, but the state company Deutsche Bahn. So it is not only about leaving the fate of many Slovenian companies, which depend on transport and logistics services to a foreign company, but in fact to enter the holding company with this also foreign country and foreign policy. I would therefore like to ask you: Why was there no invitation to tender in case of a strategic partner? Why was a series of hidden meetings held in secret locations related to the entry of Deutsche Bahna into this logistics holding company? Why was no expert in the field of public-private partnership, economics or legal profession involved in the group that discussed Deutsche Bahna's entry into holding on the Slovenian side? And: Why was an appropriate feasibility study not produced to serve as a basis for such a link? I'm also interested in this: how did you just start negotiating with Deutche Bahn, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Who's 100% state-owned? [[...]] Thus we come to a paradoxical conclusion that the Slovenian state withdraws from the Slovenian public infrastructure by privatising itself by entering the economy of German politics instead of Slovenian politics. I ask you, not least because you know very well that this is an extremely topical issue. Last but not least, you've also been attending recent meetings with some of the presidents of the government. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's what we're talking about. [[...]] Romano Prodi also reacted and gave her initiative, and German Chancellor Merkel reacted, so I wonder: How will you protect the strategic interests of the Slovenian economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u14	Well, thank you for asking. The government certainly does not intend to protect the strategic interests of the Slovenian economy, logistics and Slovenian railways in this way, as has been done so far as the railways have collapsed, the speed of trains on Slovenian railways has remained the same as those of Austria-Hungarians and the losses have accumulated. This was a way of protecting the Slovenian economy so far in the 15 years and it had to be done. This government is the first to deal seriously with this problem, as can be seen from the budget lines. It is from the means to address these problems and also from the efforts we are making to solve the problem in the long term. Unlike what many have written and what you have partly summarized, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not sell Slovenian transport and logistics companies. There was no such announcement, no such conversation. Perhaps this is where he read it because he wanted to, but this is not a sale such as the sale of a copier's bank in the past or Lek, but it is simply a search for a partner to establish a joint venture - given the changed geostrategic situation in Europe after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, into the Schengen area. Following the commitments we have made regarding the two key European corridors that are also going across Slovenia, some of the steps ahead are inevitable. Slovenia needs to modernise the railway network and we are looking for the best, most effective and, of course, for the Slovenian taxpayers' most expensive option through which we will do so. However, it is not for Slovenia or the Slovenian State to lose its influence on strategic decisions when it comes to rail infrastructure. That is why this infrastructure is not sold, it is sought for partners in common logistics holding, where precise rules will apply and where we will eventually choose partners on the basis of a public tender. There are several potential partners in Europe who are able to enter this project that we are looking for a partner. Contacts were practically with all those who were interested and the most serious interest was shown by the German railways, so we talked to them or even talked to them the most. But it was already mentioned at the outset what the strategic interest of the State is and that the decision will eventually come on the basis of a call for proposals where everyone interested will, of course, have equal conditions for cooperation. One of the fundamental conditions, in addition to maintaining the strategic impact on rail infrastructure, is investment investment in modernisation. And here the math is very simple. As much as we want at the time that it is also necessary to fulfil European obligations, given that the rail infrastructure of the year and years was no longer invested, given that Slovenia is still paying off loans for the first track of Koper-Divača - we are still paying credits for the construction of the first track 40 years ago on the route of Koper-Divača - there is nothing done here, the logic is very simple: whether we will practically freeze all other investments, build no new school, no colleges, no state road and give all the money for the railway infrastructure - I doubt that someone in this Parliament who would vote for it - or whether we will look for a partner where, on the basis of common interests in this joint enterprise, we will pool resources. The logic is very simple, in the end it will be a decision before you because it is a strategic project, and everyone will be able to participate in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u16	First of all, I have specifically pointed out that the situation on the railways has deteriorated in the last two years. And since the two State Secretaries were in the supervisory council, a large part of this period has led the Slovenian Railways now fortunately the former mayor of Škofljica, I myself have been repeatedly concerned and have warned of this. Of course, I am pleased that the government has changed the concept here, which I even welcome. In many ways, I agree with what you have said about the need to look for foreign strategic partners in modernising rail infrastructure. But somehow I'm afraid you haven't been able to answer my questions. I asked: why was there not at least a public international call at this stage, or an inquiry into strategic partners, and this is done in a secret way? I said, "Why hide meetings in secret locations?" The media last recorded Deutsche Bahna's representatives in Brdo pri Kranj, and there is no secret that they have been carrying out an analysis of the situation on Slovenian railways at least since spring. And I specifically asked you, and I really ask you to answer me: Why are Slovenian public-private partnership experts not included in the group that negotiates with Deutschebahn and with potential other investors? If you want, I'll suggest something myself. I wonder: Why has no feasibility study been carried out, which is the basis for such major projects? And I also asked: Why does the Slovenian state withdraw from the economy in such a way that it gives way to a company that is 100% state-owned? Otherwise, of course, I support that the situation is improving. I believe that the objective and purpose of this procedure is to say that the method and method of this procedure are very poor. And I'm afraid that in the end it will be possible for us to obtain in the form of Deutsche Bahna some sort of Trojan horse that can do more harm to the Slovenian economy than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u18	So Deutsche Bahn is the second largest world logistics service, after efficiency and after income among the first; what is the ownership composition is here is less important. We want a good and credible partner, but it's not said to be this one. So far, this partner has shown the greatest interest in these initial stages. It is in our interest that the same interest is shown by others that there is competition at the end and that Slovenia is best negotiated here. To publish the call before any of the basics are even cleared, it makes no sense, the call will be published after all these things have been provided and these studies, which you list, have been completed. I also don't know where the information is that the public-private partnership experts don't work here, I don't know. They may not boast every day, as some others do, but they will cooperate and cooperate to the end. And because it's such a big project that it can't be arranged at some secret location, but it's about working meetings where information is exchanged and where people can't answer questions like: at what cost, when and where you'll sell something, especially if it's not for sale. And it is very unusual that at the start of a project that is in the common interest of this country, the matter is being discredited. The situation after two years or after three years of this mandate on Slovenian railways is sometimes worse for a simple reason, because all infrastructure is three years older in three years and another three years of age have been added to 100 years of obsolescence, because it was not possible to combine several billion euros at once and go into these projects - and it is not possible to do so. We need significantly more resources to rebuild Slovenian railways than Slovenia has spent or will pay for the construction of the motorway cross. You know how long this has been done or how long it has been done, how many times the Slovenian Parliament has decided on national programmes and on these funds. If anyone thinks that we can do it just like that, overnight, with one budget amendment, he's wrong. This is a challenging project, I am glad that we have given it to you, and I am surprised by the protests of some political parties and trade unions that are obviously coordinated, expressing concern for jobs on the railway and at the port if this project is to be implemented. We should be concerned about what will happen to jobs if projects are not implemented to this extent. We should be worried about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u20	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a public debate on the response of the President of the Government, which I justify because there is obviously a whole range of information that is not available to this Assembly. I believe that in this way I would also have the opportunity to explain all those aspects that I have also asked. I also base this on the fact that, last but not least, the Italian President of the Government, Mr Romano Prodi, reacted immediately and gave an initiative to bring together the Adriatic ports because it has clearly shown that Italy has a very clear strategic interest. The German government also has a very clear position on its strategic interests in our part of the Adriatic, and I think it is right that before such an important decision as the privatisation of key Slovenian companies that will form a logistics holding: Intereuropa, Luka Koper and railway infrastructure, there will also be a debate in this National Assembly. Above all, I would only really like to know once who those experts are in the field of public-private partnership, because I am actually concerned because I believe that we have to make up the best team of experts on such important projects - and this project of modernisation of railway infrastructure is worth €9 billion - that Slovenia must form the best team of experts. According to my information, I've been talking to many people, and I'm aware of Dr. Dark's position that he's not a member of this group and many others. But I do know that the leader of this group is the Secretary of State of Shercelj, who is already talking to the Americans about building a casino in Nova Gorica. And I really wouldn't want this unfortunate story to happen again by looking for foreign partners that we're witnessing in the field of gaming, because in the end we can say that we've played it all together. And we only played because we didn't put together the best experts we had. And here I stress once again, it is not a concept, but I am interested in the technique of performance, but above all I want transparency, because I still believe that no one is hiding and that the various rumors that appear in this regard do not hold. I therefore ask you politely to vote on this, and I believe that the coalition Members will also express interest after the public debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Lahovnik's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. Mr Victory Jelinčič will be next to ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I am interested in: what is the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards Croatia, when we have seen recently that Slovenia, the Slovenian government, has been giving Croatia a complete commitment to the historical fact that it was on the Nazi side in World War II, that it was aggressively attacking the Slovenian territory, that Slovenian citizens were massacred and killed in Croatian camps and that this case continued after the so-called independence of Croatia, when President Tudjman said that it was the national continuity of Croatia, which was drawn from the formerly independent country of Croatia. In recent times, your preference for Serbia's accession to European integration has been commendable and excellent, but these arguments of Euro-favour to Serbia are immediately eroded as Croatia and its strange manners enter the European Union uncritically when it invades Slovenian territory. I am convinced that it is essential to hold a peace conference on the former Yugoslavia and that this is the only way to define borders and resolve border issues between Croatia and Slovenia, and also between Croatia and Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the only guarantee of peace. Europe promised this peace conference in the early 1990s, but it did not. And we know that if there is no peace conference at the end of the war, that means the war is not over. And I fear that with Croatia's non-selective entry into the European Union, the Balkan conflicts will start again and ignite, first in Kosovo, then in the Republika Srpska, wider in Bosnia, Sandzak and so on. Croatia did not have its Nuremberg, did not denacify itself and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This must also be done in such a way that the Slovenian government demonstrates its demands before Europe and also in the context of the historical subcommission in the legal commission requires a peace conference on the former Yugoslavia to be held. [[...]] I ask: Are you going to raise these questions at European level and ask European politicians? These are largely bribed by Croatia and, of course, compulsory to the detriment of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you for asking. The conference on the former Yugoslavia was held. Slovenia was pleased with the results of this conference. The position of Mr Badinter was adopted, which, contrary to the accusations that were made at the time, often in the air, Yugoslavia did not fall apart because of the secession of individual former republics, but simply Slovenia was created when Yugoslavia collapsed for deeper reasons. The results of this conference, when it comes to key national issues, are also contained in our constitutional decision, in the basic constitutional charter, where we came from the same source, namely that the border between the two former republics of the former Yugoslavia, between Slovenia and Croatia where it was or that the border between the new countries was where the border was between the two former republics. And this starting point is also taken for the basis of the brionic statement signed in 2005 and this starting point is also the starting point of Slovenia in all efforts to resolve this issue when it comes to the determination of microlocation. This way, the government will not propose a new conference on Yugoslavia. There were still individual events later that we can count on in this category of peace conferences, such as Dayton agreements, but did not deal with Slovenia, but with other parts of the former Yugoslavia. In short, we see no point in citing conferences. It is also impossible for Slovenia to build relations with other countries or neighbouring countries in 2007 on some historical reminiscences, counting who was in world wars. If they took this as a starting point, they would probably not be in alliance with Germany, Italy and Hungary, both in the European Union and in NATO. So in Europe these things are perfectly clear. When it comes to Slovenia's attitude towards Croatia as a candidate for the European Union, for the first time, Slovenia's attitude is positive not only for Croatia, but also for other candidates who want membership and who are willing to meet the necessary criteria, as Slovenia also had to meet them. Croatia has started negotiations, a small number of chapters have been closed, and most of them are still waiting. In closing certain chapters, by introducing or adopting European standards, it has taken steps forward, even when it comes to resolving certain issues that have been bilaterally open or have been open to Slovenia. Two such issues can be mentioned in this positive balance sheet, one is the opening of the real estate market for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the other is the adoption of legislation on a fund for the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. So, there are still a few ways to go and Slovenia will have a principled position. In short, it is about meeting European standards, European criteria and not first looking at the name of the candidate and acting accordingly; such behaviour would also be unworthy from a European point of view. It is also important to know that Croatia is one of our most important economic partners. Last year’s trade in goods amounted to over €2 billion and is increasing. Here are the interests of the economy on both sides and some normal conditions for economic cooperation are necessary here. So this is another additional reason for the positive view of Croatia's integration into the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The President has said quite an inaccuracies in his response. Firstly, a peace conference has never been held. This is Rupl's thesis, which is pointless and completely in conflict with international law and the banners that stand there. Badinter was an "ad hoc" commission, a temporary committee that had a limited duration and was no peace conference. It should also be said that the border between Croatia and Slovenia has never been established in the history of the former SFRJ by any agreement; it was some kind of communist arrangement. And it is interesting that after 1974, with a new constitution where each republic received state status, Croatia changed territorial positions towards Slovenia - to the detriment of Slovenia, of course. It must also be said that Germany paid its debt after World War II - Croatia did not pay it; and the whole of Europe is built on antifascist and anti-Nazi fighting, which we simply forgive to Croats. Economic exchange is, of course, increasing with Croatia, unfortunately because of the increasing number of Slovenian tourists in Croatia and not for other reasons. The attitude of Slovenia towards Croatia, for example, also shows the note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs N-25/05 of 25.1.2005, which speaks of the border crossing of Hotiz in Croatian territory. And these are the mistakes and terrible mistakes that are making to the Slovenes. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The country that shortens and reduces Slovenia and does not happen what we expected this government not to be subject to the Croats. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thus, it is concluded that since 1991 many unilateral steps have been taken by the neighbouring country in regulating relations between Slovenia and Croatia, or in general in this area. It is also true that some were left without an appropriate response - at the time they were made. It is also true that none of these steps, although they were slightly less in this mandate - at the time of this Government's mandate, did not go unanswered; no such step was left without an appropriate response or response and the situation certainly did not deteriorate here. Moreover, with the brionic statement signed and valid - no one has withdrawn from it - since 2005, all these steps have been taken unanimously, unanimously, in view of the possible advantage of achieving a better position in final regulation of the border status. For in 2005, the neighbouring government reaffirmed that the starting point for the definitive determination of the border issue between Slovenia and Croatia is 25.6.1991, which means that nothing that has been done at that time can affect the benefit of the one who has taken unilateral steps - when it comes to final decision-making. That's perfectly clear. In short, not only have we not left no unilateral step without an answer in this mandate, but we have also neutralised those steps that have been taken before.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you. Next, do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask that today the National Assembly vote that a broad debate be held on the response of the President of the Government. I think this is an important issue because we are losing Slovenian territory. Slovenia lost something else because of the "poor" move of the former 2/3 national territory policy and I fear that we will lose it, especially when, in our legal commission, Mr Miha Pogačnik, who in 1996 said that Slovenia has no way out to the open sea, and I am afraid that this gentleman will not be able to cope with the various guidelines and whatever else he or she may be subject to in his or her decision-making and professional work, which I am increasingly doubting, given the information I receive, and according to his or her texts which I am reading. It is true that the current government has always responded to Croatian aggressive acts and therefore has been given every honor, including for the brionic declaration. But this is about two versions. One is "de iure" the other is "de facto". "De jure" we reacted, "de facto" Croats remain in their positions and are still aggressively interfering in Slovenian territory, in fact increasingly. By their bribery, they also invade the European political space and gain their allies there. It is interesting that the exercise of the NATO Pact, which began today and will last 12 days, does not contain Slovenian military forces, which is very interesting, since it is a neighbouring country and between the twelve countries that are in this exercise, should certainly be Slovenia. However, I would suggest at least something, and I think that we should also discuss this, that, in the framework of the legal commission, the historical sub-commission must first determine its origins and facts, because we must not forget the 19th article of the Krf Agreement, at the time of Slovenia's first integration into the common Kingdom of SHS, when it was determined that the Adriatic Sea is the property of all nations entering the common country, but not as today when Croatia has adopted the entire Adriatic Sea. I therefore feel that the National Assembly will decide on this and open a broad debate. After all, it can be closed to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jelinčič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the context of the votes. Mr Jakob Preseknik will put the last question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government. Two weeks ago, a large part of Slovenia was hit by a severe storm, which caused great material damage and, unfortunately, six human lives also took place. According to the data so far known, the damage is above EUR 200 million, especially on water and transport and municipal infrastructure and consequently in companies and residential and public facilities. The government responded quickly and concretely to the situation and immediately approached the emergency situation in cooperation with local communities. All other institutions, firefighters, the Slovenian Army, civil protection headquarters and the civilian population, which are and are working to eliminate the consequences and protect people and property, are also worth mentioning and commending. Mr President, I would like you to take a closer look at the activities and measures taken by the Government to help affected people in the affected areas and to normalize their lives, with a view to considering the major investments in watercourse management that have been neglected since 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you for asking. First of all, the answer may be to this last part when it comes to water treatment. First answer for the front. On Saturday, when the budgetary debate was held, the government allocated substantial additional appropriations for the following years for the regulation of watercourses. And given the extent of the problem, it is likely that the same share will have to be maintained for at least some time even after 2009. The second part of the answer to this part of the question is back. With this last catch, not only has it not been done well enough or, where regulation has not been made on watercourses, it has proved that where it was done or where it was well done, the damage has been done - I am not speaking now for the railways, where the catch has exceeded all the frames, but mainly for the target area - the damage has either been prevented or sometimes mitigated. Which, of course, means that investing in regulation in the right professional way makes sense, and therefore the Government has also responded on the basis of this direct experience on Saturday by redistributing substantial budgetary resources to regulate watercourses, especially storms in the next two budgets. However, with regard to reaction and damage recovery, I believe that the Government has fully assessed the problem and sought and implemented all the measures that are possible. For the first time, such a disaster or a major natural disaster occurred at a time when Slovenia is a member of the European Union, and for the first time, some of the instruments in these frameworks are also available. In view of the estimated extent of the damage, Slovenia is also counting on partial reimbursement from the European Solidarity Fund, for which the relevant documentation is being prepared. Possible sources of European funding are also in the Cohesion Fund. The Cohesion Fund of the Operational Programme on Flood Safety allows for drawing, with some flexibility, already in the following year, a source of up to €10 million for 2008. Credits from the European Investment Bank are also possible for the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure. Thus, for the first time, it will be possible to count on part of the funds to remedy the consequences of this capture from sources outside Slovenia. In the course of the three discussions on remedying the consequences, the government has also sought or anticipated, because it has not yet been possible to find all possible funds and resources from this year's budget, from the reserves that we are already collecting this year. Thus, at least part of the costs to address these consequences will not burden budgetary spending over the next two years, but this will be necessary for part. This perception has also shown that in Slovenia there is a relatively effective system of protection against natural and other disasters. In addition to finding the effectiveness of this system, however, many volunteers must also be commended, in particular around 4,000 - more than 4,000 volunteer firefighters have volunteered to address the consequences, over 1,500 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as well as hundreds of citizens and citizens who have come there solely from an internal call for solidarity and have also gathered a large amount of humanitarian assistance. This means that if Slovenia takes a proper approach to addressing the consequences of major accidents of this magnitude, it can work effectively and will recover relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We're moving to 29. Period of the day - defends the proposal of a candidate for the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. On 12 September 2007, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed that she appoint Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u36	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 12 September, I proposed to the National Assembly, as a candidate for the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar, a university lawyer and a member of this National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is responsible for some important national priorities from the Lisbon strategy and the strategy for the development of Slovenia. It is responsible for the implementation of the Bologna Guidelines and other strategic documents that place the importance of knowledge, education, research and innovation at the forefront. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is also the host or sponsor of some of the important projects contained in the resolution on national development projects. The biggest challenge for the Minister and thus for the candidate, if confirmed, is the successful creation and smooth movement of knowledge from educational institutions to economic operators and the resulting added value to competitiveness on the global market. I expect a candidate for a minister to establish an open and effective dialogue with all partners performing in the higher education and research area and from these partners to talk and negotiate more reliably and to keep the word given. There is a very wide range of work ahead of the candidate and will be faced with them in a very short time. Three months from now, the challenge posed by the Presidency of the European Union, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will have to lead or monitor the dossiers under the responsibility of the four European Commissioners, counting on the candidate's knowledge of the functioning of the European institutions, the European objectives of Slovenia and also of the common European priorities. Knowledge of the functioning of the state administration is certainly one of the advantages of the candidate, which will help her to quickly enter into the management of projects in the field of responsibility of the ministry and, above all, to successfully complete those envisaged in the Government's work programme by the end of this mandate. Mojci Kucler Dolinar will also benefit from legal knowledge in the management of the Ministry. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology carries out a number of calls and conducts important national projects where knowledge of legal procedures and legislation is urgently needed. There will be a ninth lawyer between colleagues and colleagues in the European Union. Eight of her colleagues and colleagues have such an education. So much in response to doubts as to whether her education is appropriate. On the basis of the results of her work so far and on the basis of a positive presentation on the parental committee, I believe that Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar's candidate for the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will be successful in leading the ministry. I therefore propose that you support it in the debate and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development and responded to questions raised by the members and members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the committee. It concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Mohet, Chairman of the Board. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u38	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and colleagues! That's a good-bye! Allow me to briefly present the opinion of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology on the presentation of the proposed candidate for Minister of Higher Education, who first explained to the committee in the opening presentation the reasons and motives which led to the decision to accept this responsible and challenging task and to run for Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. It further provided a comprehensive overview of the current situation in the area of higher education and research. At the same time, it also presented some of the planned activities to be pursued during the period leading up to this area: science and research, re-engineering of higher education, technological development, the field of information society, the field of investment, the role of the Ministry in the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. At the end, the Minister's candidate concluded her presentation with an assessment that she had a very wide range of work ahead of her one-year term and expressed her conviction that she would also succeed in carrying out her tasks. The panellists and members of the panel asked a number of specific questions. Most of these related to its view of the proposal for a Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, or to the indications in the resolution on how the legal field of higher education will be regulated, on the autonomy of the university and on the conduct of dialogue with the professional public concerned. On these issues, the candidate explained that she would try to establish a good dialogue with all higher education partners. It also expects their responsible approach to resolving open issues with the aim of working together to make something positive for Slovenia's higher education space. With regard to the resolution itself, she stressed that she understood it as a document to reshape higher education in a way that would give all actors an appropriate place and role. In particular, in terms of improving the quality of the study process, ensuring greater mobility of students and not least as an appropriate basis or starting point for discussion on the combined higher education laws. In doing so, she rejected the fact that the resolution was not in line with the professional and interested public. On the question of how many universities we have too many or too few, she explained that there are four to ten universities in the various documents, which is probably also due to the assessment that we are far below the European average by the number of students to the university. The number of universities will depend mainly on the quality of the programmes, the quality of teaching staff and the staff opportunities. On the question of how she understood the autonomy of the university, however, the applicant explained that she fully agreed with the position taken by the Constitutional Court in its decision and that it was by no means intended to interfere with the autonomy of universities. Despite their autonomy in professional academic work, however, it is the candidate's belief that cooperation between the State and the higher education institution or the university in the work financed by public funds is also possible. Following the presentation of the candidate and her replies to the specific questions of the members and members of the committee, the majority decided that the candidate for the minister had given a broad understanding to the applied and technical sciences. They particularly welcomed its readiness to establish or restore dialogue with all stakeholders in the field of science and higher education. However, the hope is expressed that they will accept the candidate's willingness to dialogue and constructive cooperation in resolving the issues and tasks that had already been posed by the former Minister. On the contrary, some members of the Committee felt that the candidate's presentation was too general. In particular, attention has been given to the description of projects already drawn up by the former Minister, from which it can be concluded that it will only proceed with the work of its predecessor, rather than clearly presenting its visions or visions of solutions to some key issues and clearly identify itself as an open and current dilemma in the field of higher education and science. Thus, in their view, it was not possible to understand what its views and views on the issues ahead differed from the views and views of the predecessor in the future. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate, the debate and explanations of vote, the Committee adopted the following decision by 8 votes to 5: The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development considers that the presentation of the views and views of Mrs Mojce Kucler Dolinar was appropriate. I want the candidates: "Hic effitus, hic salta, mojca!"
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished ministers, dear Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware of the importance of science, development and innovation within higher education. In particular, at a time when we are involved in the process of creating a common European higher education space, which will, inter alia, allow for an exchange of views, as well as the unification of certain aspects of the design of higher education. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has become active and competent in this co-forming of a single higher education and research area during the time of Minister Zupan. In doing so, mechanisms were put in place to create an intelligence through higher education institutions, in particular universities, which will be the vehicle of development, as well as the carrier of national identity at home and around the world. We are pleased that despite the opposition's constant perceptions and some of the politically-led experts, Minister Jure Zupan has sought a quality higher education system that will respond to the needs of the social environment and time. We are pleased that he has advocated the openness of the higher education system and the creation of new universities that bring, but still in bandages, demonopolisation, competitiveness and, above all, a wider range of education offers. During his ministry, a modern system of higher education began to be established, focusing on research and knowledge transfer. It is therefore not surprising that in 2006 the proportion of young researchers in the economy increased by 60%. This also points to the clear achievement of the objectives set by this Government under the Coalition Treaty. To work intensively on the interconnection between universities, science and the economy. Connecting these two spheres, says science and economics with higher education, means that students are actively involved in the economy in the undergraduate and postgraduate studies and are linked through projects to institutes. It is thus familiar with the technology in the economy and the possibilities of analysis and testing. Not only in theory, but also in practice. The recently adopted resolution, which raised so much dust, even though it is only a fence for a further legal basis, advocates 80 young researchers who would go to an economy every year to specifically understand the problems of the industry and then use their knowledge to solve these problems. During the time of Minister Zupan, coordination between research at universities, institutes and the private sector was also improved, which has a significant impact and contributes to technological progress. For the Ministry can contribute more effectively to the development of new technologies and to the improvement of the old as a result of the full review of all three actors in this process. And, as I mentioned at the outset, we are all aware or should at least be aware of the need to open up higher education in the light of the Lisbon Strategy and the Bologna Declaration. However, the opposition side, through the debates we have seen recently in the context of higher education, unfortunately does not give such an impression. Rather, it shows that it requires some cementing or concreteizing the situation so far, even though it does not explicitly acknowledge it. However, we do so when something is said, and then it is done in a completely different way, from some opposition parties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that this area is so important that we cannot possibly agree to the thesis which the opposition is trying to conceal in some way to impose, that almost everything in this area is ideal that it hardly needs any improvement. This thesis is completely unacceptable and incorrect for us. Efforts should be made to improve the situation. It is not because of the privileges that some of them hold back from other times, but because of maintaining some status quo and thereby damaging the process, which is also dictated by the international environment, as well as by countries with a significantly better education system. In recent times, there has also been a proliferation of evidence on account of the limitation of the autonomy of the university. Of course it doesn't. However, autonomy must not be an excuse for rigidity, soreness and lack of acceptance of new ideas. The opposition aggressively imposes a kind of thesis that everything that does not come from the left political field means bad, backward and reckless. Not everyone but the left-wing experts is incompetent and unprofessional. I am even saying that the deliberate suspension of years and years because of incorrect political orientation has helped them to have a much more critical view and a more acute sense of certain things. I think it is important that the candidate for the new minister, now our colleague Moica Kucler Dolinar, has shown a willingness to engage in more dialogue with all the higher education partners. This is particularly important in order, I hope, to finally eliminate the politicisation in this area, which has recently been sought increasingly by the opposition by rejecting dialogue, by obstructing important documents and by deliberately creating an impression, rather than living in some emergency situations. The opposition and part of the professional public have led this fight to such absurdity that one of the universities, due to overemphasis in participating in these evidents, has disregarded its responsibilities and has not applied for new programmes. It's completely unacceptable and unacceptable. All this, of course, at the expense of the students. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wish that in the future, with the new Minister, the politicised professional public will return to the dialogue so that such cases, which are very much at the expense of the students, will no longer take place. It is important that the candidate for Minister in her presentation also put a great deal of emphasis on the issue of technological development. Without supporting the innovation and development of researchers who are able to develop new products and thereby give them added value, we cannot imagine Slovenia as a country that wants to climb among the most developed EU members. Such a course is based on the objectives of this Government and is, of course, very different from some of the conduct and direction of previous government teams. This is because, in preparing this position, I have come across a fact that was heard at the hearing of the new Minister, namely that the candidate of one of the previous Government for Minister, then even for science and technology, Mr Lev Kreft did not mention technological developments in his presentation. Therefore, it is not surprising that for many years there has been a worrying state of small enrolment of students in the natural and technical fields. During the time of Minister Zupan, his efforts and the direction of the Government brought important movements, as the entries have also increased or better would have been given the condition that they have normalised. The candidate for the new minister also confirmed that she would continue to work in this direction alone. She said that, with regard to the promotion of technical directions, she did not wish to detract from the importance of sociology. It is aware that in both areas we need excellent experts. However, there is a need for encouragement in the technical and natural direction. In particular because this area has been somewhat neglected in the past. And we can certainly pin it on that. The figures show that our labour market needs this type of personnel. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar said in her opening presentation on the parental committee for higher education, science and technological development that she was aware of how responsible and challenging she had accepted the task. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that the candidate will carry out the work of the Minister properly, competently and well, because we are convinced that she has carefully considered her decision. We believe that it will work for the well-being of higher education to achieve such objectives in the higher education and research spheres, which will place us in the circle of the most developed. We are also convinced that the new Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development will successfully and decisively represent us on key higher education and research topics within the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. We believe that the new Minister will be decisive when it is necessary to establish Slovenian interests and prudent when it comes to weighing between different ideas and interests. As a woman, I must say that I am particularly pleased that the Ministry will lead a brave and determined woman from the younger generation of Slovenian politicians. Which also shows that Slovenian political space has capable young people and that it may need more. Youth and minor experience in the case of Mojca Kucler Dolinar are not negativity. More. I also believe that because of these pre-positions, she will be able to listen in a different way to all those who will work with her either in daily contact at the Ministry or through the negotiating table. However, its current innocence in terms of cooperation with higher education partners and the scientific sphere points to open and unburdened dialogue without trying to enforce some of the narrow interests of different groups. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support our colleague Mojco Kucler Dolinar as the new Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development and we wish her much success in her demanding and responsible work, especially in many smart, wise decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, colleagues. Good day to you who is from others in the Hall of the National Assembly! In the Group of Social Democrats, we find that there is nothing new in the Western style in the area of higher education for research and development and technology. Except for one very important trait. And this is a change in the gender of the future head of this department. It's the minister. We have heard a lot of good praises, a lot of statements about how the former Minister has made an extremely useful contribution to higher education, science and technology. So we don't even understand why this exchange is necessary. And that is also why - because the candidate, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, argues that what Mr Zupan has started, that the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme is quality as a document and a good basis for further work at the Ministry, because it claims that the co-workers of the previous Minister are good, correct, quality and will therefore cooperate and work with them, because its relationship to higher education is practically a copy of what the former Minister has done, of course our Group cannot support this candidate. Despite the fact that we are also pleased that more and more women are emerging in Slovenian politics, especially young people, and that this may also lead to the support of a candidate. However, when it comes to such responsible work and such a responsible function as managing a higher education, science and technology base, no feminist initiative can be sufficiently weighty to support something that we do not think is a good decision. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a coalition that is in this National Assembly, should assume its responsibility, as with other appointments of ministers and ministers. We are confident that this responsibility will also be properly paid in a good year. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not support the candidate minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u44	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! That's a good-bye! The fact that the situation in higher education and the scientific sphere is critical shows the Prime Minister's move when he accepted the resignation and replaced the minister who resigned because he was not in favour of the tasks. A number of serious things, or mistakes, could be seen by the outgoing Minister, Mr Zupan: a neo-liberal approach to regulating higher education, exclusion of social partners from the debates he managed, support for research institutes, disregard for the Bologna Reform Guidelines, inability to dialogue, distribution of state resources by party and church key in promoting nature, serious neglect of society and humanities. We are thinking of restricting enrolment in social colleges and budgetary resources, while at the same time generously granting concessions to social and private universities, neglecting the quality of higher education, completely neglecting ICT. Unfortunately, the list of errors mentioned above does not end. But it would be difficult for Dr. Zupan to see the incompetence and ignorance of higher education and research. Also because he was coming from the research sphere, the minister said he started promising. He promised a more successful integration of science and the economy, a popularisation of science. He encouraged students to study deficit, natural science, technical study programmes and the like. Regrettably, despite years of experience in this area, political wisdom was largely lacking at the implementation level. But it's over now and it's a thing of the past. In the LDS this summer, we announced an interpretation against Minister Zupan. That's why the Prime Minister's fall move didn't surprise us. If the three contested ministers were suspended, we would expect the removal of another one. The replacements for Prime Minister Janša are not foreign. In his reign, he learned quite a few things. Let us remind Jožet P. Damjan, Mr. Janez Drobnič, of Mrs. Marija Lukačič. More surprised was the fact that the Prime Minister of the Government, despite his boasting that he could find three capable people for vacant places, came before us overnight with a very brisk desk. It's obvious Janša's a poorer staff. He is aware of this at the outset, for he acknowledged that his team is not the best and that some departments run ministers more than they do. Now that he had the opportunity to correct his initial error at the reconstruction of the government, he did not do so. Worse yet, he chose the second worse than the first time. Instead of competent and experienced people, he opted for perfect analphabetes. Why? Does the Prime Minister really believe that today he can be a minister, a minister of any kind? We ask ourselves: Is the principle of the welfare of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia guided by these considerations and choices? It is not serious and irresponsible for the President of the Government to place a completely inexperienced person from this area at the head of the department, who has or is supposed to play a key role in the progress and development of Slovenian society. With all due respect to Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, who has proven herself decent and diligent in the areas covered by her, it seems to me even pleasant - if you want - and not maliciously, but I think that is not enough. I believe that higher education, scientific research and technological development play a key role in breaking through Slovenia and for the well-being of its citizens. This fact alone imposes on the Ministry one of the most important and responsible tasks and particular importance. Even more so because the policy of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is also directly dependent on the fate of more than half of the population, several generations. With everything I say, I can't get rid of the feeling that the choice of a candidate really wasn't the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! All those who are accompanying today's meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia! The decision to invite our fellow Member, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to the nomination for Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology in Novi Slovenija was not difficult. Let me release her here to all known virtues, from legal submission all the way down to eloquent dialogue. Let me mention here two of the things we could have noticed by her close associates. At one stage, it concerns its personal characteristics, which have given a special mark to its work and the exercise of its responsibilities as president of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. These qualities were, to name only a few: studyability, reliability, diligence, thoroughness, accuracy, loyalty. At the second stage, I must mention her state sense, which we felt at the very beginning of her mission, and at which we knew that she was an excellent base for the highest responsibilities in the management of this country. I thank the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who is proposing to the National Assembly for the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology our fellow Member, Mojco Kucler Dolinar. To the opening of the President's proposal, let me announce the support of the New Slovenia Group. Today means a new start for Slovenia's higher education, scientific and research space. Not only because today is October 1st - the beginning of the new academic year. Not just because new faces, students, professors, new Deans are coming to college. In particular, because we also want to maximize our commitments under the Coalition Treaty and the documents adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of the term of office with the new first face of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. This is not only our commitment to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but also our commitment to the adopted documents and objectives of the European Union. So it's a fresh start. But not for starters, set to zero time, or start to zero. But on the solid foundations already laid by this Government, or the former Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Jura Zupan, in the higher education, science and technology segment, who, as everyone knows, has offered a derogation due to non-human, criminal, unjustified and unjustified pressures from the planned reform of higher education and research and development activities to the Prime Minister of the Government. The former Minister, a scientist with the best references among all who have so far appeared in Slovenian politics on this department, a man with many international references, the author of scientific works translated into many foreign languages, was certainly able to follow the high goals of Slovenian society, which were undoubtedly also intrusive with the Lisbon Strategy. Here I would like to thank Dr. Juret Zupan, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, for his little contribution to Slovenian society. Slovenia has taken extremely important positive steps in the direction of the development of a modern, democratic Slovenian society in its 16 years. Europe speaks laudably about Slovenia. About it - as I said last time - is laudable to the American Senate, for example, whose work was recently accompanied by the Slovenian parliamentary delegation directly in the Senate Chamber. In 2004, Slovenia, with its entry into the European Union and then definitively demonstrated that not only geographically but also visually it belongs to the heart of Europe. To build on the values with which European fathers laid the foundations of the European Union. However, all the segments of our lives have not been thoroughly renovated and modernised in these 16 years so that we can meet the challenges of time in a sovereign way. We have not yet agreed on all segments of our lives in European terms and in the way that Slovenian society deserves. One of these segments is certainly higher education and research activity in the Republic of Slovenia. The resolution on the national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia 2007-2010 is the basis for implementing acts. This is for laws and other acts on the basis of which higher education must be thoroughly transformed or ventilated. The adoption of the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia lays down the Higher Education Act. The Section for the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme 2007-2010 prepared, in accordance with that Act, a Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education in July 2005. In its substantive context, it also takes into account the strategic document on the development guidelines of Slovenia, such as: the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, the Reform Programme for the Implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia in the framework of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, and the European Union Commission document on the Implementation of the Agenda for the Modernisation of Universities, Education, Research and Innovation. The main objectives to be achieved by 2010 - if I only list the most important ones. It is about creating a single higher education and research space, promoting knowledge exchange in the triangle: higher education-science-economy. A balanced enrolment of young people and an increased proportion of adults in all forms of lifelong learning, an improved situation for studies and an increase in the number of graduates, the promotion of internationalisation of higher education, the introduction of different criteria for research achievements in different fields and the opening of the habilitation space and the increase in the flow of experts between higher education and research institutions and the economy. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar is still aware that new ideas and inventions create new jobs. They preserve our environment, provide safer food and medicines, safer and more sustainable sources of energy and so on. At the same time, science is increasingly complex and expensive. There's nothing you can do alone in the lab without any contact with the outside world. Scientists today must act in conjunction with access to sophisticated technical equipment. The European Union is therefore creating opportunities for scientific cooperation across national borders. It creates platforms where the scientific community and economists can meet. It provides funding for research projects involving scientists from several countries, from and outside the European Union. The development of research activities in the global environment requires coordination and complementing efforts at the national level in the Member States. Here comes a common European research policy: the European Commission, the Member States, the European Parliament, the scientific community and the economy are determined together to create a truly European, research area. In January 2007, the 6th Framework Programme was upgraded by the 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, the main tool for European Union research funding in Europe for the period 2007 to 2013. The seven-year programme budget is EUR 50.5 billion and the euro budget for the next five years is EUR 2.7 billion. Total funds represent more than 60% increase in relation to the Sixth Framework Programme. The 7th Framework Programme is new to its focus on Europe's employment needs and competitiveness. It further supports research in selected priority areas. The aim is to create or defend the EU's global leadership role within these sectors. It is certainly important for the Republic of Slovenia and also for the new Minister that we are approaching the revision of the first three-year period of the renewed Lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and at the beginning of the second period in 2008. And now is the time to assess the progress made and to discuss the future orientations of one of its main elements of the European Research Area. In a changing world marked by the accelerated globalisation of research and technology and the emergence of new scientific and technological powers, in particular China and India, the European Research Area is more the foundation of European society and knowledge than ever before. Such a society uses research, education, training and innovation to the full in order to meet the economic, social and environmental objectives of the EU and the expectations of its citizens. The concept of European Research Area brings together the European Internal Market for Research through the free movement of researchers, technology and knowledge, effective coordination of national and regional research activities, programmes and policies at European level, and initiatives implemented and financed at European level. Progress has been made since the adoption of the concept on the Lisbon European Council in 2000. The European Research Area has become a key reference for research policy in Europe. However, much remains to be done to create a European research space. In particular, to eliminate fragmentation, research activities, programmes and policies across Europe. The European Research Area needed by the scientific community, businesses and citizens should include the following elements: for the first time, an appropriate movement of qualified researchers with a high degree of mobility between institutions, sectors, sectors and countries. Secondly, research infrastructures of the global criterion connected to each other and accessible to research groups across Europe and the world, mainly thanks to new generations of electronic, communication infrastructures. Thirdly, the top research institutions that are involved in effective public private cooperation and partnerships and represent the core of research and innovation groups, including virtual, research communities, which are mainly specialised in interdisciplinary areas and attract a critical mass of human and financial resources. Fourthly, an effective exchange of knowledge, especially between public research and industry, as well as the general public. Fifthly, well-coordinated research programmes and priorities, which include an important share of joint planned investments in public research at European level, comprising common priorities, coordinated implementation and joint evaluation. Sixthly, the opening of the European Research Area to the world with particular emphasis on neighbouring countries and commitment to addressing global challenges with European partners. Why so many words about European policies, the Lisbon Strategy, the European Research Area, etc.? Because we are also part of this European space. Therefore, it is essential that Slovenia's higher education and scientific research space be adapted in European terms. It is perfectly normal that this space must remain primarily Slovenia. This segment is extremely important for the welfare of Slovenia. I am pleased that our colleague and candidate for Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology are aware of this. During this term of office, Mojca's colleague was also well acquainted with the structure of the European Union and the structure of its bodies. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we are also convinced that it will be part of its task during the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. Slovenians sometimes get together. So far, we have proven this in many projects of a national character. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect Slovenians to step together when it comes to modernisation and Europeanisation of the Slovenian higher education area and the research sector. We will take the first step in the New Slovenia Group today. We will vote for candidate Mojca Kucler Dolinar. I thank her for her proper participation in the New Slovenia Group, for her work and we wish her much success, happiness and satisfaction in the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to make a position on the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Government for a Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Higher education is a key element in the sustainable development of global competitiveness and national identity. Universities and other higher education institutions are of exceptional and irreplaceable importance for the development of Slovenian scientific, cultural and social life. In the Slovenian People's Party we strive to respect the autonomy of universities, to increase the openness of universities to foreign students, visiting teachers, to cooperate between higher education institutions and to check the quality of institutions transparently. We believe that only through the cooperation of universities with the local economy and other research institutions can it achieve surpluses for all involved partners and contribute to the development of individuals and societies. Knowledge is undoubtedly the kind that has and will have an even more decisive impact on the development of Slovenia in the future. We have written in many documents that Slovenia wants to be a state or a knowledge-based society. A good and quality higher education system is key to ensuring quality experts and thus the developmental orientation of the country. The role of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology in this project is very important. My colleague Mojca Kucler Dolinar, a candidate for the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, has taken on an important responsibility by deciding to take over this challenging area. The current situation in the field of higher education and research is not very rosy. Last week, we adopted a resolution on a national higher education programme, which clearly did not have enough close and constructive cooperation between all higher education partners. Above all, it is a worrying fact that some have been willing to support the current situation in the beginning even in a too loose and under-designed resolution on the national programme. It is obvious that the candidate will have a lot of work to do and that she will have to prove herself primarily as a good mediator between all higher education and other partners in the preparation of the Higher Education and Development Act. So this drafting of the law is, in our view, a key project of the Ministry at this time. We know the candidate well after proper and conscientious work in this term of office of the National Assembly. We believe that she has done her work as a Member and is doing her work properly and professionally. This was also the case with the management of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. The candidate will be supported by the Members of our Slovenian People's Party Group. It is important to be aware that it accepts a responsible and challenging task. In particular, we support its determination to re-establish dialogue with the professional and other public in order to seek agreement on the reform of higher education and scientific space in Slovenia. I would like to highlight the following in particular during the candidate's presentation on the home working body. She stressed that the relationship between students and teachers is below the European average. And this is certainly one of the main problems of Slovenian higher education and scientific space. Its resolution requires, on the one hand, the opening of higher education for visiting teachers. On the other hand, an increase in the number of teachers employed, which will require a lot of additional funding. In this way, it will contribute significantly to the quality of higher education, which is a prerequisite for further progress and development of tertiary education in Slovenia when opening European higher education. Of course, there is no way to ignore other areas where there will also be a lot of work to be done in higher education. Further development of science and research and an integrated approach to linking the scientific sphere to the economy is an important challenge for Slovenia. The candidate is obviously well aware of this in all her emphasis on the presentation. We could talk a lot about what is happening in the area covered by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. However, I would like, above all, to wish the candidate a successful job in the role of Minister. As we say, we will support the Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In the Parliamentary Group, indeed, we find that the coalition treaty of these governments provides for future ministers with good knowledge of the field, professional competences, vision and motivation. I must say, given the hearing, the hearing we heard from the candidate is our fundamental observation that the candidate did not have a vision of her own. She did not respond to open questions in this area, to priorities and to the main objectives on the basis of some of her views. So we didn't really expect that. But what somehow bothered us the most was that, on the one hand, she stressed the need to talk about open issues. On the other hand, as a candidate or as a member of this National Assembly, it supported the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, which is considered extremely harmful to all the professional public. This is of particular concern to us because it has in some way shown that there is no real will for an open dialogue which could be launched as a fresh name. Above all, it should be pointed out that this resolution has been extremely critical. We, I must say, were expecting a new approach here, some fresh wind, to address the shortcomings that have arisen as a result of the ministry of former Minister Zupan. I'm afraid that didn't happen. It seems particularly important to me to point out that when a resolution was adopted, one of the open issues was the autonomy of the university, where the candidate argued that it was not intended to interfere with the autonomy of universities, but supported this resolution, which is doing so. He's taking autonomy to the university to a large extent. We regret that, however, most of this has not been observed in this National Assembly, because this Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme introduces a number of changes and the Government will not only have the opportunity to appoint a university director at the final stage and thus directly influence the university, but also to intervene in some way in the habilitation process. We must say that we are genuinely concerned that there will be no movement here. What needs to be said properly and honestly is that the candidate is working. I believe she's eager to know her legal area, which she's obviously been working on. As a fellow Member, it would be difficult for her to see unemployment. So we believe that she will do her best to do good work at the Ministry. But as I said, what concerns us is the fact that in the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, however, she had exactly the same position as the current minister. We ask ourselves: What is the added value in the first place? In any event, it is also necessary to highlight the fact that Slovenia will practically preside over the EU in three months and we are also concerned that a candidate, as a new, fresh candidate who does not know the field of expertise and who has not worked on it in the past, will be able to preside over the other EU ministers with sufficient authority and sovereignty. These questions remain open. However, I would like to point out that, in our view, the candidate has at least two major advantages. Firstly, unlike the Minister of Health and the Minister of Transport, who was neither an expert nor a policy in the areas covered by them, the candidate Mrs Kucler is at least a politician. And secondly, that virtually worse than her predecessor, Minister Zupan, she can't work because there's been a lot of damage done to higher education by now. I believe that even if someone tried, it would be hard to do more bad things. At least in the opinion of the profession we have witnessed in the last period. In fact, a number of academic experts warn that things were going wrong in the area of higher education. By assessing in our Group that, however, it is good to replace the Minister of Higher Education in any way. What concerns us is the fact that the candidate has so far defended the same positions as the previous minister. We ask: What, then, is this added value or difference in the concept that we are expecting? In any case, I would like to point out that we will also abstain from voting because of these concerns. We believe that every time a mandate-holder, in this case Mr Janša, has the right to change his team. But the coalition must therefore also take responsibility and support new candidates with all their strengths and weaknesses. In our parliamentary group, we will abstain from voting, but of course in the opinions of the parliamentary groups, and yet we wish her every happiness in managing the station, because the result in this case is more or less clear than in all others in this three-year term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I was quite surprised at the beginning, perhaps even appalled when I listened to the presentation of the position of the largest coalition party in this House. I must say that it was not even possible, in my opinion, to present views, but rather to squander the opposition. Yes, appalled at, if you want, the fact of how bad it is for this government or the whole of Slovenia when it has such aggressive opposition in Parliament. So aggressive, so discontented, so critical. The President of the Government has the right to a personal composition of the Government. This is also enshrined in the coalition contract. But allow me to ask a rhetorical question in the beginning: How resilient is the human spine? Not long ago, when we were able to hear from New Slovenia in this Chamber, it is said that the parliamentary group, which also proposes a candidate for a new minister, personally disqualification of the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. Only a few days later, Nova Slovenija, the same parliamentary group proposed its candidate for Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. It's true that she stabs in the eyes that the candidate is not professionally qualified. Here I stress, expertly trained in the field of higher education and science. That the candidate has not even been a member of the State Higher Education Committee in the past three years. That, within three years of this mandate, the candidate has only participated in one debate in this Chamber or in Parliament on the subject of the work of the Ministry of Higher Education. And even then, allow me, even then, a minister or a candidate for a minister advocated market logic and an appropriate government regulation on titles or a regulation on the so-called Bologna classification of higher education and scientific titles. Although this regulation has degraded a large number of graduates and more than 15,000 people have signed a petition against such government work. It also points to the fact that the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group, and last but not least, the President of the Government, Janez Janša, is overstepping his coalition contract. Allow me because the leader of the New Slovenia Group told me before me that they are trying to maximize the fulfilment of the coalition treaty commitment to read what is enshrined in the coalition treaty. I will not now fly the entire coalition treaty, but only the part that is connected to the appointment of a candidate or future minister. In the personal composition of the Government, the coalition will comply with the following criteria. First, a good knowledge of the field is recorded [[Of a kind used ……]] , professional competences, vision and motivation for its realization and so on. I ask you: What professional competence does a candidate have for a minister? It is also worth reminding Prime Minister Janez Janša, who said at the outset that there are quite a few lawyers in Europe in this area. Yes, I believe so, but no one on the part of the opposition in this House has been able to report an education. Nobody. I believe that education is appropriate. However, I would like to point out that there is no professional competence that the candidate does not know the source she will cover or represent. On the other hand, at least as far as we were given to listen and monitor the presentation of the candidate on the committee, the working body, the candidate has no vision of working in this area. Last but not least, you know, the Coalition Treaty also states: "By establishing the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the coalition wants to give special emphasis to the area on which the development of Slovenian society is based in a society based on knowledge and information." Did the candidate perhaps say somewhat naively on the committee that, in fact, she was linked to the area she would cover only that she had been part of the educational system in the past? I say it's a bad trip. And on the other hand, I wonder if the professional competence of being a candidate or a candidate was once a part of the educational system, then we can be justified by fear, and I will say this excessive relaxation that rules our country. On the other hand, today I have listened to the largest coalition party, if you are not professionally qualified, but you are unturned and in some ways good. All right. I believe I've said a lot with these opening words. However, if I touch on the candidate's presentation on the working body itself, I might say, well-prepared text, not knowing the field of work, poor substantive answers to questions from members and members of the committee. And as I've already said, a person, a candidate for a minister, has no vision of her own. In other words, this may even mean that others will dictate this vision to her. Those who have so far worked together and drawn up policy in the field. The candidate doesn't have a strategy either. Well, he believes that Minister Zupan's policy so far has been good in this area. Even though he had to leave the ministerial chair after talking to Prime Minister Janez Janša. Also because of the disputed resolution on higher education and research activities, which was unreservedly supported by the candidate for Minister last week in the role of our fellow Member. The resolution does not provide for stable funding. He's putting himself in front of the public. It also allows for policy intervention in the functioning of universities and higher education institutions alone. Another important fact. The resolution is based on the fact that it is not harmonised or that the Government has not established a partnership. The candidate also mentioned negotiating partners in her presentation on the working body. She even said that the professional public had reacted inappropriately with regard to the resolution. I wonder: How can someone talk about the inadequacy of someone who is theoretically and practically working in a professional field? However, if we have listened carefully to the presentation of one of the colleagues before me, then we can, yes, agree, because the professional public is imaginary or politically defined. Because it does not agree with the solutions proposed in this government or in the Ministry of the Government. Last but not least, it also leads me to think that she will be the new minister or that the new minister understands social dialogue as sneezing and making purely government decisions. That's politics. It is clear that such a policy will continue its path too strong. It is said that the Ministry of Science and Technology does not change politics, but only a person at the head of politics. That's bad. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we cannot deny this kind of work if you wish, Prime Minister Janez Janša, despite the fact that we can fully agree that he has the right, of course, to form his own government structure. But, as has already been said, such doing very clearly indicates that at the head of the government of individual ministries, in fact, there are people who are only politically fit or compatible. We just can't talk about the expertise in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Mr. Horvath, do you have a procedural proposal? Excuse me, Mr. Znidarsic, procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Excuse me, fellow mags. Genius. I and the New Slovenia Group fully respect the position of colleagues from the SNS Group and do not understand their discussions as a disqualification of the candidate. I am also pleased that the presentation of Nova Slovenija mentioned more than the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. But I have to protest strongly. New Slovenia has not discredited colleagues of Potrč in its presentation of its position on the candidacy of colleague Potrč. It wasn't a discreditation. That wasn't our purpose, that was less. That is why I strongly protest such a flat-rate statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u55	Well, that wasn't exactly a procedural proposal, Mr Horvath, but let's continue. Here you are, Mr Žnidaršič, for the presentation of the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u56	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished representative of the Government! The proposed candidate for the Minister for the vacant post of Minister does not need to be proposed. It was proposed by the President of the Government in his opinion. He offered us the candidate he got, who's at his disposal, who wants to take on this function. We have no particular problems in this regard. The problem is that the President of the Government first lets the ministers do worse, I would say, slave work. Fix the damage. And then, in order to blur things out, the minister changes, and it's not the first time. This isn't just in this case. Of course, the coalition party DeSUS expects four votes. We will give them because we do not want to make it impossible in this case to occupy a resort that has been emptied and because we would not actually achieve anything by continuing to find a new candidate. Perhaps another or the same candidate would come or Maria would give the 46th vote and the same candidate would have been elected and the benefits of our opposition would not have been. On this occasion, however, it is right to say that the relationship between the three parties of the government coalition and the President himself is extremely offensive and inappropriate for any minister to our party. In particular, if we recall the last statement made by the Minister of Health, who knows nothing about the matter in the past, she said that she had resigned from the Ombudsman's Institute as if it had not been written in the coalition contract. I quote: "The Coalition will ensure the establishment and functioning of the Institute of the Ombudsman." One year before the end of the term, we find out that this will not happen. It was our request, our condition to join this government coalition and it will not come true. Where is the logic of expecting our votes when we get in the face of a message that we are agreed to in this coalition treaty, in this government, will they not be realized in this mandate? With what right does any minister collapse in the coalition a programme, a provision, an agreement, given that the coalition contract states that we will accept changes and additions with the consent of all four signatories? This is because our Group's message to our government coalition is the following today. We want to act as an effective and creative partner in coalition society. But today's four votes to resolve the question of appointing a minister, whom I say we would not achieve if we voted against it, are the last four votes that our Group will give when it comes to bad proposals, bad solutions. But even more certainly there is a new thought about whether we will still be in this coalition and, of course, a new story about where the coalition can afford to ignore the smallest party, which has opposed many times the solutions of this government coalition. But certainly not in a way that would be constitutionally controversial. Certainly, my fellow Member, I have the right to talk about this. By the way, we love the minister, one part of the government. I have the right to speak about relations in the coalition that are extremely inappropriate and, of course, to our party and the parliamentary groups offensive. In order not to lose words on this subject, I want the newly appointed minister to respect the promise she has made to patiently seek agreement with the expert on the area she will take over. I believe he wants to do this honestly. As it is said, she will receive four votes from the Democratic Party of Pensioners because I think she has good intentions and a decision to go on this path that is possible and to do what is in her power. She'll have our support for everything that's good. Of course, it will have our opposition to solutions that we will assess as bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Representative of the Government! High school space or scientific and research space is certainly an extremely important thing for every country, every developed country, as it is a guarantee for its development, for its success in the future. In Slovenia we have received many changes in the higher education area in the last 10, 15 years. Unfortunately, not all of these changes have always led to some improvements, some positive changes, but we have received many anomalies, if not even negative changes that have affected this area. Let me just say a few of these. One of the very important and long-term negative changes has been the growing negative interest of young people in entering natural and technical programmes. We have also been affected by the decline in the competitiveness of our graduates in international labour markets and in the field of scientific and research achievements in recent years we have not been able to deal with any progress. We have also received a number of incomprehensible new higher education from the social sciences in the last 10, 15 years without any reasonable reason. This is the result that we have today that we have hundreds of thousands of graduates of these schools who have been trained in good faith, and unfortunately today they do not have a job and will probably find it difficult to get one. For Slovenia or the Slovenian economy unfortunately does not need to employ such personnel. We also received over-centralisation of higher education at three actual centres. As a result, our young people have more expensive education. Similarly, the economy across Slovenia had no opportunity to influence the development of scientific research work and also higher education. This process lasted 10 or more years and to turn this process into a different direction leading to improvements is a long-term process. It is precisely in the last two years that this government has been able to achieve an enviable result, a success. This policy was also represented by former Minister Zupan. And in a relatively short period of time, we get that young people have an increased interest in entering natural and technical schools, which is certainly extremely important for the Slovenian economy in advance. However, this interest or change did not come naturally. This was a hard work both by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and by former Minister Zupan, because with numerous visits in the field, in secondary schools, primary schools and not least throughout Slovenia, they have contributed to our youngest or our young people's awareness of the promising professions, the promising needs that the Slovenian economy needs, and finally the European Union. In this place, I would also like to thank former Minister Zupan for such a work. In the development strategy of higher education, as well as in the scientific research process of this government, the resolution we have adopted also includes the priority that higher education and scientific research should begin to decentralise. This is certainly necessary. Of course, assuming that this decentralisation will be based on such starting points as will contribute to the high quality of our graduates and also to competitiveness, both knowledge and scientific and research achievements. And this will help our young people if we have decentralisation, especially cheaper education, the possibility of the economy having an impact on these processes, as well as employment or those who are highly qualified in many areas, but cannot be involved in the teaching process. The new city and Dolenjska are among the more developed or can even be said to be among the most developed regions in Slovenia, where we have a number of companies employing highly educated staff, scientists and there is a real need for such profiles and knowledge. For more than a decade, this environment has been working, from economy to local policy, to have scientific research institutes in Dolenjska, which will benefit our economy. Unfortunately, the policy of the past governments has not been inclined to do so, and we have not yet succeeded with these desires, with these needs. However, this Government and Minister Zupan have listened to these efforts, to these needs, to these expectations and to give clear starting points and also to support these starting points. The starting points were extremely simple: any programme based on quality, competitiveness, any programme supported by the staff, in the resources that the economy in Dolenjska has, and that we will have a sufficient number of students, will be supported by the Government. And I must say that in this environment we have remembered this proposal or these suggestions, and at these starting points we are also building all the programs that we will try to implement in an effort to reach new higher schools, new institutes, new colleges that will grow into universities. At the hearing, I asked the candidate, Mrs Mojce Kucler Dolinar, similar questions as I am discussing now. And I must say that her attitude, too, is exactly the same. This means that it follows the government's objectives to follow some of the starting points already set by Mr Zupan. I was pleased with her presentation myself, and she had a very extensive presentation. She's touched every area. She was also able to answer specific questions, and here she convinced me that I knew her from before, because she proved her work to be extremely difficult. Here we can listen to the opposition's observations that there is no experience that this is a choice that is not a guarantee that we will be successful in this area. I ask all those who try to discredit the candidate in this way: how many people in Slovenia do we have who are already serving as minister for this area? In fact, Minister Zupan was the only one who played such a role, since we have introduced this resort practically with this government. The President of the Government also said that as many as eight European countries with a legal profile are extremely successful in managing this resource. Here it is also necessary to have some other qualities and not only an academic title and direct experience or a work circle in the field of higher education. So that's not a guarantee. As I mentioned before, her presentation convinced me. Above all, this position, as well as support for the efforts of the environment from which I come to reach the university in due course. That's why she's going to get my support, and I'm sure she'll also be supported by the environment I come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The government's proposal that the management of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology be entrusted to Mojca Kucler Dolinar will be supported. I believe that the Ministry has been successfully led so far and that Dr. Jure Zupan has been responsible for his work. Under the leadership of Dr. Zupan, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has set up projects that are not only necessary for Slovenia but essential. In her presentation to the committee, she also presented these projects to Mojca Kucler Dolinar. The presentation shows that the area has become well-acquainted. He knows critical points. However, their resolution will be a challenge that it takes on responsibility. In my explanation, I would like to mention only two of these projects, which have already been given a lot of talks today, namely entry into deficit study programmes. My opinion is that, if this were to happen, entry in the way that Dr. Jure Zupan led it would not have had as much unemployment in people with higher education in Slovenia. The second thing I would like to stress is the expansion of higher education programmes, including outside Ljubljana and Maribor. Some were very critical of the establishment of the University of Primorske, University of Novi Gorica, to open various higher education programmes in other parts of Slovenia. My opinion is different. I believe that studying from home is significantly more effective because it requires lower costs. However, the lower costs are linked to the fact that a larger number of students are given the opportunity to study in this way. Then those who study and I will say are studying from home, looking for their employment opportunities in that environment, which is also positive. This is particularly true in terms of coherent regional development. I am sure that consistent regional development is best achieved by spreading higher education programmes across Slovenia. As for Mojce Kucler Dolinar, I would like to say that she has taken on very responsible tasks in the New Slovenia Group. The Internal Policy Committee was successfully chaired. She presented her position clearly, boldly faced the argument. However, she made decisions after careful consideration. I think these personality traits are extremely important for the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology right now. I think Mojca Kucler Dolinar owns them, and that's why I support her without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, there are no government representatives. Changes are needed in Slovenia as regards higher education and science. That is why, of course, I expect my colleague Mojce Kucler Dolinar to make the necessary changes with responsibility, as we often stress: "Right science and technology is the same and useful knowledge that will give competitive advantages to Slovenia." Actually, we can count on that. The future of Slovenia, and in the end these discussions about wages, how much to raise. If wages grow on the basis of added value, based on the knowledge invested, we need not be afraid of any inflation. We'll provide people with a better standard. Of course, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as ourselves, expect to achieve the kind of goals that we have already heard. First of all, it is certain that the consistency of supply and demand between the individual profiles will be increased. And then about the quality of the study, about shortening the study, so that as soon as possible after Bologna models students and graduates will acquire as much knowledge as possible, including the practical one. It is therefore essential to link the economy with the university. So that when they step out of school, they will be ready for market challenges for economic challenges. This is a weakness in Slovenia. So to shorten education in order to establish a life of their own, they will be able to decide for their family and their children first. In this way, we can also expect a shift as to the joy of life. Scholarship for deficient professions, then guidance for technical professions and natural orientations. I am pleased that former Minister Zupan and I visited a number of high school centres and high schools and urged young people to decide to enter these guidelines. Not just because they'll find a job easier because they'll make progress. But also so they don't stay unemployed. Investing in R & D. The habilitation procedures should also be overstretched. And a variety of other things. There's been a lot of talk about the autonomy of the university. I also advocate the autonomy of the university, but not without all conditions. If we have a closed space, if there is no competition and if we have no control, if there is no choice, then the autonomy of the university is barren. Then it's a hunting ground for various partisan interests. We can also say family ties, what we had the opportunity to see, experience, regrettably, even students in a negative sense, or other interests of political ties and networks. So let us be critical when we talk about the autonomy of the university. If competitiveness is not established, then autonomy has no effect either. Maybe the opposite negative effect. Dear colleague of Kuclers! The economic and social reforms adopted by the Government are good. And most of these in this area are yet to be realized. So, a lot of work for you. Go on, don't hesitate! In this you will have my support, because only in this way will we ensure greater prosperity in Slovenia, decent social security and the perspective of this generation and generations that come after us. That's the only thing that's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much. That's a good-bye! Your Honor! Today we place the Minister as a particularly important resource. Knowledge, research and technological development are three concepts that will mark Slovenia's path in the next generations. A small country on a scale can be large if it has exceptional experts, exceptional researchers who can create new knowledge and know how to create and develop new products. This is precisely the key task of the Minister, which covers such a area as to enable and enable conditions for the development of higher education space, university space and research space in this direction. And since I was at the presentation of our fellow Member for the Minister, I must say that she has been extremely well aware of the spirit of time, that she has been extremely well aware of the needs of Slovenia and that she has also demonstrated the breadth of the spirit and the political ideological approach in this performance. It offered a hand of dialogue, partnerships with all those who, in the past period, have put themselves on the political ground for unknown reasons, although they have at the same time advocated independence from the university's politics and autonomy. These phenomena and this has been enormous in recent times. I must say that, unfortunately, many within the universities have succumbed to some kind of "polit Commissioners" led from the centres of power and with clear political objectives. We have observed this to a considerable extent and have witnessed this abuse of the Higher Education Committee, where it was only about the exploitation of political space. Look! I must say that it is now very clear that the opposition planned to block the country in some way by focusing on two, three areas - health, higher education, education. And of course, two of these ministers had no chance of getting out of these claws. Because this special war was well organized. Health, higher education, education are areas that each citizen feels in some way. Because this propaganda was deliberately produced, people believed that something was wrong. They used the same method. To this end, students have also been abused, and I must say as used by the opposition against Alende in Chile - as trucks. Students were appointed truckers at the time for the abolition of legitimately elected representatives of the people. I'm just glad the ministers were so wise that these traps became aware and withdrew and left the city to different people, I think, other people, for whom today the insult was used to be analphabetes. A different profile, younger people can also be an advantage to a large extent. And the Prime Minister of the Government has actually offered exactly what they've been asking for all along. Minister Zupan was infected with university conditions. Although he's the most brilliant researcher and scientist, everything was wrong. And here today it was said, even though they acknowledged these references, they would have prepared an interpolation for him. I hope that, above this feature, that the new ministers of analphabeth will also protest two universities where some have graduated and mastered. Because this is the worst attack on campus. It's an insult to the university. I firmly believe that through the University of Ljubljana and Maribor, analphabetes can't come through in any area. If any of those people you've given that grade, you mean that, then of course you're the most responsible because you've recruited 15 years at these universities. And it is true that some Slovenian universities have largely succumbed to the pressure of these political groups from the opposition, the Social Democrats and the LDS. Otherwise, I can't imagine that the former candidate for the party's president against Pahor, the "proforma" candidate, boasted on the committee that he had been employed six years ago at the University of Ljubljana and is now teaching left and right. He's a classic political commissioner at the university. It's Mr. Pertinac. And it rises at a moment so high if there is no political instrumentation from behind. In drawing attention to some backgrounds, I would also like to say that the Minister's candidate has also shown an extremely good understanding of the importance of technological development and technology. I have to say, there's been a lot of work done here. This trend has been cut off by the preference of registration in the humanistic direction. Finally, we can hope that things are normalising, that more and more high-quality graduates will be enrolled in technical and natural schools, who, as I say, will be able to develop new products. It's a Slovenian emergency. If we want to create the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and stop what the former director of the chemical institute Vito Turk said at the time of the rule of the LDS that Slovenia is threatening to become a technological colony. For, as mentioned today, in those times with those candidates, those ministers had no understanding of technological development. One candidate for the minister didn't mention it, technology. Even though he was a minister, he's supposed to be the Minister of Technology. And the balance and support of both science, research activities, technology and humanities and some equilibration between fundamentalist sciences, research and applications is a necessity of this time and this space. And the source of our confidence in the candidate's programme for Minister Mojce Kucler Dolinar is great. Last but not least, she proved to be a self-sufficient political person, who could also be critical, I remember such situations, even in her own party, and she made them clear. And I have to say, I mostly agreed with that. That's why I'd like the opposition not to be so affronted today with low blows. I understand the opposition not to support the future minister, but to try to act with arguments. Let it rise above the politicalization of the core, which is so important. Because otherwise, what has happened to some, even within the universities, which have been led by political interests, ideologically, lies ahead. Maybe not of their own volition and then they forgot to go and hurt the students. A student and the quality of a graduate is crucial. A diplomat of any university is a product that we must all think of here. Especially the minister. The diplomat must be such a product that he will be competitive in the European market, that he can develop new products and that he will also be a comprehensive individual. And that is why I am also strong for autonomy, but not for the misused autonomy of universities, which has occurred in the past year, that they have understood politics, negative politics, opposition to all the good that has been proposed by the ministry or the minister on the basis of its honesty. And all I know is that there's been a politicization. It has happened that, in fact, there has been a direct or very strong defence of all privileges that do not stem from autonomy but come from this strong position and anchoring of some left parties or also these opposition parties into the mechanisms of the university. Whoever opposes the updating of universities - I do not think there are good intentions for the development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Government Representative in absentia, colleague and colleague! When we talk about how good it would be if the opposition made an argument, but not just on average, we can, of course at the same time, listen to the performance without arguments why we would support this candidate for the minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition! Well, to be fair, at least you're illogical in this explanation of the Minister's replacement for the former minister. I am thinking, above all, that you are singing a praise here to the former minister, who has done his work, but at the same time you are suspending this minister and replacing him with a new minister, who is new, who will do a lot of good in this area. At the same time, we can see that it will only be a new frame. Everything else stays the way it was. Last week we witnessed a debate on the resolution on higher education. So the resolution drawn up by the former Minister continues. Players change, and if I try to make a comparison a little bit longer - this is just a sign that people outside the current government structure don't want to go to the Ministry anymore. They don't want this government structure. This is like a sports club that has problems with results, but fails to get any reinforcements within a time limit. Of course, then he turns to his spare bench coach and tries to solve what he can. And that's how this intervention of yours evaluates. This time, too, with those swaps that have happened before. And if I tell you why I won't support the proposed candidate for Minister. I have already mentioned one reason - her attitude towards the resolution on higher education. A relationship that means, of course, that the story continues as it was set. However, I think that students and everyone else who has already been mentioned have not been manipulated to be individuals and groups who think with their own heads. And if they say, of course, what they mean, then they are marked - as you said in the introduction that they are - "politically guided experts". But if they're thinking about yours, then they're independent, good, desirable. So to speak, experts. The second reason I won't support the candidate is because of what you predicted in the introduction. One of you, however, I think, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, it was said that the eloquent ideology was present. I'm very afraid of that, too. At the same time, you are talking about the political commissioners of the past 15 years, and you should also tell your candidate that she is satisfied that she is reliable, that she is brave, that she is competent, that she is active and that she has an ideological quality. When I speak of the reasons why I will not support the candidate for Minister, I should return to the debate at an extraordinary meeting which was held 14 days ago, when we also elected a new candidate or a new Vice-President of the National Assembly, and when you cited denationalisation for the arguments against the vote. Denationalisation is also the reason why we do not support the candidate coming from New Slovenia, who is the successor of the Slovenian Christian Democracy, who in those days played an important role when we adopted the Denationalisation Act and when we adopted such a law, which we are still having difficulty implementing and implementing today. Of course, this is a matter of great affection for returning to nature as many things as possible. This is understandable because compensation and similar matters are then smaller than the country. But it's a problem when you return this property in nature, not to say one of the most absorbing cases. These are, of course, Slovenian forests that have changed owners in recent years. But you know who got these forests the most. And as an argument at the time, it was also that it was against resolution or that concerns within this party were within this parliamentary group that it was necessary to normalise at the legislative level. It's the attitude of the state and the church. In doing so, of course, we see this arrangement differently in your parliamentary group and, of course, in ours. We still insist that the equations between the state and the church, and whatever church it is, must not be. And for a third reason, you also stated at that time that it was not obedience to the field of war laws. This is also an area for which I cannot support a candidate who comes from a party that advocates the opposite, which, of course, we believe. We do not believe that anything that happened in World War II can be evenled, nor is it as a result. So, the reasons you listed 14 days ago, argued on our part, we can refuse. I was then convinced that it was also worth talking about today. So all the reasons for not supporting the candidate are, at least, as far as my thinking is concerned, somehow in place. So, in line, as I've listed, once again, I say that the candidate for the Minister does not have my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor by inviting Ambassador Dr. Matey Lahovnik. He's not here. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u68	Your Honor! In view of the fact that comments are now being sent to the parliamentary group in the debate, the coalition is proposing a candidate for a minister to the place where the Minister of New Slovenia has already been. Of course I don't understand that logic. The basis for this is the election and composition of the government coalition. I hope that this basic system is known to fellow Members. That is why I would suggest that we do not involve ourselves in the long and the long term and beyond and our views on laws that have nothing to do with higher education. I would therefore also ask the President to be consistent in this regard. First of all, what is an important criterion for a candidate for a minister, according to our assessment? I think it is important, above all, that he is able to translate in some way the objectives, the political objectives in the broadest sense of the word of the ruling coalition, which in our case are enshrined in the coalition treaty, into practice. At the same time, it is also able to reflect the situation on the ground. This is the situation in the area covered by it, back to its government, that this government can reconcile its positions in concrete cases. I think that the candidate who is clearly inexperienced as a completely inexperienced politician was first elected to the National Assembly by an important Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and, in essence, coordinated by the State Assembly of three ministries. Regardless of the fact that no one was able to tell her at the time, she showed that she was sober, that she was mature, and that she knew what she was doing and that she was allowing for dialogue in the committee. Although at times they were very opposed to each other, it allowed the opposition to speak even when one of the coalition Members might have also given some non-verbal signs that the matter could be concluded after a short process. I am also a member of this committee. From this point of view, it must be recognised that there is no difficulty in coordinating different areas, regardless of the fact that there is no overexperience. For example, she doesn't have a public administration exam, she wasn't the head of an administrative unit. She wasn't a police director, she wasn't a judge, she wasn't a state prosecutor or something. However, it has successfully coordinated these three areas in Parliament. I'm referring to this as an argument in defense of the perceptions that she's not competent for the area she's running for. That is why I am not afraid that I would not be able to coordinate the four areas of the EU Presidency. As President of the EU Affairs Committee, however, I must say that one of the few presidents of the working body who was actively involved at the European level with the area she was covering was active. A lot of the board presidents have no idea, no idea. I can say again what our country is going into next year. She's got it. And I am also sure that she will take matters professionally and also responsibly, and will also obtain professional assistance for those areas she does not know. I think he can assess his limits, too. Besides, I'd say her age is talking to her for good. Many ministers, especially in the new EU Member States, are her age or even younger and are successful ministers. Maybe one last argument. Being a woman, I think it's a yes. In view of how much we have listened in this National Assembly at various working bodies and also in plenary session to the debate on how to support equal, equal representation of women, I will be very surprised if any of the Members vote against it. Now is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to act and support, in my opinion, a very good delegation. Who's to say she's no good from fellow Members? Now's our chance to support our colleague. We say in New Slovenia that it is the best. And as I said, I'm going to be very surprised, and I'm also surprised at some views, so negative, in the case of her proposal for a run for minister. As I mentioned in the introduction, I would have finished with this, but this city belongs to Novi Slovenije. We have the right to propose a man we didn't propose on the nose. I think that, in fact, the candidate is not on a political, personal level, as in terms of the correctness of the attitude towards the other Members, regardless of what I said, we have been on different shores sometimes, and we are still. I don't think it's possible to read some extreme action or behavior that could throw a bad light on it. That is why it seems to me that this human approach, of course, combined with political skill or political sentiment, must prevail in the debate on ministers, which we all know is essential for the Minister. Good ministers, we know, could be ministers of any department anywhere in the world. This can also be said in the current opposition's experience that it has been practiced in the past. We propose that, at least by New Slovenia, you refrain from discussing the involvement of a party as such, our valuable starting points, insofar as it has not listed them in its debate or as far as I know it, it never misuses it to achieve its objectives, nor as the chairman of the committee until now, nor as the minister. I am sure that it will never abuse and increase tensions on the political scene in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. But to my word I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! There's been a lot of talk about the candidate. A lot of advice was given. A lot of wishes were made. I wouldn't be giving great advice to a candidate on my own, because I'm sure she'll be able to organize her own work well. But maybe there's just something to think about. Area: How could it be possible to organise invitations to tender for the development funds of universities or at least those entities that meet this condition that can apply for these calls? What's this all about? I'm going to make a specific case, so you won't tell me I'm speaking flat and minded. We are witnessing the situation when the second largest university in Slovenia was left without funds on the call for new programmes and for Bologna reconstruction. It was over €2 million and the second largest university could certainly count on 40% of these funds. Sort of. But the administration at this second largest university in Maribor has forgotten to play a role in these funds. Can you imagine? It's supposed to be some mailman who didn't take the material. The irony is that the post office is 100 meters away. And who will now feel the consequences? These administrators at the university headquarters certainly don't. They'll have the same salaries. The consequences will be felt by those who are members of the university. It's called colleges, so it's direct professors, and it's what the university's all about. These are the students. Therefore, I would like only to think about how this problem could be solved in a different way. Apparently, there was a poor case of university autonomy. Apparently, they understand autonomy at some point so that they can do whatever they want or do nothing, because of course this is their autonomous right. But it obviously doesn't work that way. And now those who couldn't show up directly will be the ones where this study process is actually going on, and these are colleges, and they're going to be cut short at this university. I want this candidate, Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, to work successfully, and especially in the area of teaching us the skills that the economy needs. Not that we're teaching someone to go to school and say yes, because it was his free choice, but when he finishes school, when he finishes school, when he gets a diploma, when he's on the labour market, he realizes that his curriculum or his direction, which he may have been encouraged to do somewhere else, is very difficult to get a job, and on the other hand, there's a bunch of professions that they're so full of. Of course, students are key in this process, and I very much welcome the task performed by the Minister of Education, when he is somehow together with the Minister of Secondary Education and Primary Education, the right level is lower, two levels lower, when they have somehow promoted those professions in Slovenia, and these are, of course, the natural ones for which there is a huge demand at the moment, even more, simply certain personnel cannot be obtained. When they began to change this thinking, the change was, the beginning was very good, very promising, which some paths had been made. I am counting on the new Minister to continue this work in this area as well, and that the economy will be given the resources it is looking forward to and the lack of which is already very impressive in Slovenia. I'm not going to mention the technical direction that's really deficient that it's not. I wish her a successful job in this, I am sure she will do this job successfully, and of course she has my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite Ambassador Majdo Potrate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to react to a number of repeated allegations that Members will not be supported by a fellow Member, and formerly, by a ministerial function, we should do so out of our women's solidarity. I would like to advise the New Slovenia Group to take a look at one of the first magnetograms when Ambassador Kucler Dolinar was appointed president or proposed president of the Committee on Internal Policy, and in her performance I have expressed great satisfaction that she will be as a member of the President and so has opened up the way, and that is when it comes out of the ranks of New Slovenia, what I am talking about, because she is a good Member and she is absolutely whatever sex she is. Well, in her debate at the presentation I actually felt at least part of the interest in the equal inclusion of women in science. I will be pleased if, in this sphere, it continues and strengthens what has started in the context of the scientific research sphere for the greater empowerment of women. If she works well with this group - all good. But that doesn't bind me to just unconditional trust and support. Because Mrs Kucler Dolinar, as a candidate for the Minister of Higher Education and Technology, did, however, say in her presentation a number of things that would not give her my support. Why - I said so. In a core problem that could be solved, since, as future minister, it could stop the senseless continuation of a misunderstanding between the executive branch of the government and the academic sphere called the Resolution on the National Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2007-2010, it expressed its full confidence and considered it an appropriate basis for the continuation of all that will happen this year until the end of the mandate. That is why I think it is possible to expect that the conversation with the academic sphere may be more understandable and that it would lead to results, but if the starting point is something where two different shores have a sphere and an executive branch of power, then this is not the prospect, especially because it answers the question of how to understand its judgment that the academic sphere did not respond to the resolution on the higher education programme, I did not get it. What does it mean right now? Just agreeing with what it is. We come from the point of view that dialogue is not only complementary, but it can also be antithetical, it is called pro et contra. Here, however, two votes were heard in this dialogue and one vote was adopted. And that is the fundamental reason why I believe that there will only be a change of person in this minister's department. Instead of Minister Zupan, Minister Kucler Dolinar will now act, but what else are they by the end of the year as a continuation of the already-running policy I cannot present, even if we know that the resolution is also the basis for the adoption of the law. When I asked at the presentation about the candidate's attitude towards the draft resolution, it was said that those alternatives to it, I failed to find out whether this draft even knew or whether it seemed worthy of consideration at all, or whether it intended to invite its authors to talk or to participate. The whole kind of thing is. It is likely that there will be only a working group, one that has been appointed or another, but it has not been met in the middle of the holiday and then we have adopted the resolution as it is. I have a number of concerns about the resolution myself. And an observation that can be constantly listened to, how the opposition is comparable to another situation in Italy, where there were 3,000 amendments, and here about 250, this comparison is, excuse me, rude, rude and insulting. Because it has nothing to do with wanting a document that needs to be rejected. To refer only to the views of the former Rector, there is also a reference to the opinion of one, and the majority opinion was that some things needed to be changed. But what things to change - to arrange a way of funding, to provide the university with autonomy, and no one has stumbled upon the fact that control over the use of funds is justified, but it is other aspects of the autonomy of the university. It's a matter of the University's quality control agency, a whole series of things could now be reopened, where the matter is placed on the same level, where nothing seems to have changed. And then now that we can expect a different set of things from the new minister, it's a little naive, because it's not possible to bring me across the water that things will go differently if they stay with the old ones. The difference will only be in style, as it appears, but the content will remain. And I think we're discussing content, not style. It should also be noted that we have not received a series of answers to the purely specific questions, either in relation to developments relating to the University of Maribor, but I am not referring to the fact that some very shamelessly combine the debate on the Committee and then the debate or the late deadline for the submission of the application. That's two different things. I'm sorry about what happened. But we were wondering what was going to happen to med school. There was no answer, despite the fact that the candidate is the very question of principle - the question of the National and University Library. And here's where a whole bunch of things could spread out. When I first spoke of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with a resolution, if anyone, I myself explained that he had such a way, in the already formulated text to accept amendments now from one, now from another proposing non-essential, it could be understood that, as a result, only a non-herent text could result in. And I really don't know how many times it was specifically warned that it would be good to withdraw the resolution and replace it with a text that would be consensual. As quickly as a person in this National Assembly expresses the word consensus, everyone immediately starts to use total pronouns and they say, we cannot all agree on everything. Nobody says that everyone is about everything, but now we are not in agreement on any important moment in the resolutions. That's what's worrying. In fact, it is now inappropriate to expect Members and Members of the opposition to support the Minister or candidate for the Minister, but if the role of the opposition is to respond critically to human resources solutions, the responsibility for human resources solutions must be borne by the coalition. And the coalition set up the government's structure humanely, even after gender representation set it up itself and began this mandate with only one woman and that first woman was the first to strike. So don't read to the opposition how unfair it is to women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. And I give the word to Ambassador Slavko Gabra. He's not here. Member Marian Drofenik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Respectable. Such a good system that hasn't changed for, say, the last 20 years, skeletons and becomes its own purpose. Of course, with all due respect, I exclude a large majority of higher education teachers at different levels, as well as researchers at institutes and other research organisations that work successfully. It is likely that this scrupulousness, the credibility of the system in which they operate, as the only correct one, is one of the main reasons for the frontal opposition to any changes in the field of higher education and research activities, which was particularly expressed in the adoption and discussion of the resolution of higher education and research activities in the period 2007-2010. There has been a complete unification in the protection, decades built in the incarceration of the higher education and research sphere. Of course, the main argument was the idea of an attack on independence, an attempt at political involvement in higher education and could still be listed. Of course, this Parliament is a political institution and, in fact, politics is involved in these matters. However, there is a fact that there is a slow recovery of learning programmes within universities; the Bologna processes are only for start-ups; the professions that the market and the economy fail to employ are being educated; the research sphere is not sufficiently integrated into the real economy; it is too dependent on direct transfers from the state budget; it does not provide adequate funding from the economy. This, of course, requires appropriate results. I therefore expect the new Minister to continue the ungrateful task of urgently reforming higher education and research. I think that there is nothing wrong, on the contrary, I think it is good that higher education and the research sphere will be led by someone who is not of the kind of leading higher education or institutional organisations, who will to some extent be independent and also unburdened, so I will support Mojca Kucler Dolinar as a new minister and wish her a lot of success in hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. However, Member Miran Potsch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I know our fellow Member and my candidate for Minister, Ms Mojco Dolinar Kucler, from work in the National Assembly, but above all as the president of the home working body for internal politics, public administration and justice, of which I am a member. I have a few personal views about it, whether objective or not, but they are personal, so they are also more subjective and I can comment on some of the statements that were given today at her candidacy, for example, you stressed that she is brave. I fully agree with that. I think she's brave for taking over the state of the ministry in a relatively difficult period. It has been pointed out on several occasions that there has been a gap at the Ministry between the views of the scientific research and higher education sphere, as well as science, which is not good, regardless of who is responsible, will have to resolve this issue. Secondly, he is in a difficult condition because he has to participate in the Presidency of the European Union in three months and because he has more than a year's time to perform the great tasks we all expect of him. I think that courage, as far as my opinion is concerned, is because she is the first candidate or candidate to take over this ministry without an academic title and scientific habilitation. I'm not saying it's a condition without which you can't be a minister, but she'll be the first, all the ministers so far have been doctors of science or doctor of science and have had some experience in the scientific and academic sphere. I personally have to say that I have a sense of rapport towards this sphere, I would not hope to take up the candidacy for this ministry, but I also have some political experience and academic education. The argument that anyone outside can be a minister is, of course, half true because it is people with a very wide profile, who have long experience and because outside the ministry there is a wide variety of political functions, but only largely related to the work itself. I think that courage, as far as I am concerned, should also be sought in the experience it has, and I am not talking about 35 years, but I am not talking about nine years of working age, but its experience is actually partly related to the function it takes only with this three-year term in the National Assembly. It would be difficult to be an independent advisor to general and legal matters at the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the RS to say that any experience is directly linked to science and higher education. Internal policy in one part is, as the President of the Government has said today, that he knows the structure of the functioning of the country, public administration and the like, and in this part he can do little to help, although there is no closer content. Everything that concerns me really confirms that she's brave. I told her in a brief interview in front of the hall that I recognized it and that ambition must also be acknowledged and that in fact someone who is ambitious must be supported. But I also said this, but ambition can be real or not, and it has to think about it. The second thing I would like to point to is what has been highlighted today as being determined. I have no special comments on her work in the work of her mother's labour, and when there were any minor misunderstandings, only this is a normal component of her work and I can say that she was a successful president of her mother's working body. However, it has been more successful in terms of representing the task which the President has: organising, chairing meetings, business provisions. She has advocated the views of New Slovenia or the Minister of State on several occasions, I would rather say. And as far as I can remember, even at the meetings of the National Assembly, except for its frequent performances, as presidents of the home labour force, who were correct, she presented what had been decided on a number of occasions when she was working with human rights, but most of all she engaged in the Religious Freedom Act. In addition to the President of the Internal Policy Working Body, I have not yet seen her involvement in matters relating to higher education science and technology, since she was still a member of the Rules of Procedure Commission and the Health Committee. And according to my information, she was also not a member of the relevant Committee on Education, Culture, Science and Technology in the Council of Europe, but of course she was able to deal with these issues in the way that everyone who is a member of the Council of Europe deals with human rights. In short, talking about having any experience in this area is not true. This does not mean that there is no possibility of gaining them very quickly, and if it were a four-year mandate, it would certainly be much easier than in the situation where we are, within three months or immediately, to work fully, to prepare ourselves to participate in the Presidency and then to carry out these tasks. In short, I fear that Nova Slovenija and the President of the Government have had some difficulties in finding a candidate. I'm glad he chose a woman. However, I must say that as far as I am concerned, gender equality is, of course, one of the important criteria, not the only. And we probably want women to be active in politics not only through elections but also through successful work. Since the successful work of a woman in politics then also confirms the possibility of the following candidates. That the President of the Government had a minor problem I also judge on the basis of the very modest justification given to the Minister, however, is objective. And even today, the Prime Minister of the Government had to make an effort to find some reasons why this choice was the best. For these reasons, in addition to being a member of the opposition, I will not support Mojca Kucler Dolinar. However, I sincerely wish her a successful job because of the interests of all of us so that this sector is successfully managed and because if she has and because she has ambitions, I want her to succeed. I'll say it again. I know that she is taking on an extremely difficult job and I think she is not even fully aware of the problems she will face, so she should successfully overcome them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I give my word to Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I will support the candidate, Mojca Kucler Dolinar. In her presentation, she said or stressed the importance of renovating the higher education system, adapting it to the new situation. Slovenia is a member of the European Union and this requires certain changes, in particular a system that has not changed significantly in decades. It supports the growth of higher education institutions, which is important, as higher education becomes more dynamic, decentralised and creates competition, which is, of course, a condition or requirement of all actors, activity, determination, at the same time brings new programmes, giving students more choice. She pointed out that she was aware of the importance of the involvement of higher education institutions with the economy. In fact, if our university comes with personnel that the economy can't hire or need, we've obviously missed somewhere. It is aware of the importance of cooperation both between students and representatives of higher education institutions and of the fact that our students receive mainly lectures and less individual work, practical work. In fact, professors who also teach abroad can say that the situation is different in foreign universities. That the ratio between the number of professors and the number of students is different from that of us and professors requires much more involvement and more work, even though they work with fewer students. It also highlighted other areas, so we have already paid special attention to young researchers in the field of technological development. In this area, too, he wants to engage and continue to do so. In the field of information society, she said that she would strive to make electronic applications as quickly as possible and as easily as possible for the widest possible range of people. She also stressed other areas, the field of investment, including the importance of considering an action plan for the European Research Area to do more for women, including generally in social engagement, and especially in science. More than once, it has proved to be that women are acting differently and we also know what overexcited passions sometimes calm down. It's already turned out with some ministers. I am confident that the same will happen to our colleague Mojce Kucler Dolinar, who has also proved to be the president of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. That is why I am sure that it will be a match for all the challenges ahead of it, and I want it to be a success on a new path.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members of the National Assembly and especially a nice greeting, these are also a few moments for my fellow Member, Mojci Kucler Dolinar, who is probably accompanying this debate today. I must start by saying that I am not happy that today we have this item on the agenda to confirm my neighbour, Ambassador Mojco, as Minister. Personally, I would be very happy to have you stay in these parliamentary rations. But I do know that Mojca is very busy. What my colleague Potch said earlier, I think he's said a lot of good things about her, and I'm happy to just attach it to him. Only the President of the Government has decided to reconstruct this government, and he has every right to do so, and if Mojca has accepted this challenge, all I have to do is commend her. However, let me start by saying that I am evaluating the work of former Minister Zupan as a success; perhaps history will be more realistic in assessing his work. I do not intend to speak much in this debate today. But I would just like to highlight some of Moja’s outstandingly good qualities. The first such feature is that, I must say, in these three years, which we have been sitting together in these benches, I am sure that I have come to know her extraordinary work, kindness and diligence. I have to say, I've had many times with her insistence, and at her work, I've also been inspired and empowered to insist on my work. The next very important thing, perhaps, I'll say, is that even the most important thing I've ever noticed in her is that she can listen so she can listen. Not to go a word or to go an interlocutor past it, but to do so is willing to listen to it in truth and to accept all that it considers to be right and good. All these good qualities have certainly been demonstrated in the management of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. As I am really sure that this committee has been well and successfully led, I am also confident that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will run so well and successfully. It is true that it does not come from academic species, nor has it been a member of the Higher Education Committee, but I do not think that this is particularly important. I am confident that, with all its good qualities, it will be able to establish a good dialogue, both with students and with universities, institutes and research spheres. Here I will return to this good quality of listening. I am sure that she will be able to listen to all of this, but that she also has a good lead and that she will try all these interests, which often cross together, to lead to one good result. In the end, I will not give any specific teachings or instructions as to how and what to do, but I want only one thing to say: Mojca, remain as you have been before, working, persistent and upright. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Sam Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Last week, in the debate on reconstruction, I told the cabinet that the government was in a kind of crisis. This is also confirmed by all recent public research. The decline in support of the government and the biggest government party has been evident for at least half a year. With the voluntary departure of the three ministers, the government is trying to remedy several neurological points in the executive branch. It is clear, however, that we should have done this much sooner and more in order to work effectively. Just before the start of the Presidency of the European Union, such an intervention will not have any specific positive effects. The President of the Government and the Foreign Minister will focus on Serbia and Kosovo, as well as the European Union's leadership. However, it will be easy for ministers to run out of time to work on the internal political scene. With these human resources solutions, I wonder why the President of the Government has replaced Minister Juret Zupan in the first place, but if the Government and the Ministry of Coalition Support in the National Assembly continue with unacceptable policies in the field of higher education. It is incomprehensible that nothing happened when we discussed the Resolution on the National Programme of Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2007-2010. Four discussions were held on the parental committee for 29 hours. With the resignation of the Minister, the discussion with the Assistant Secretary of State alone continued in the National Assembly. In his explanation, the President of the Government said that future Minister Mojca Kucler Dolinar would seek an effective dialogue with the higher education and research sector. From them, he said, he expects a more credible dialogue and respect for the word. Unfortunately, it was at this very meeting that the Government wasted an ideal opportunity to stop its voting machine in the National Assembly and adopt a proposal for a re-examination, and the Minister prevented the opening of an open and effective dialogue with all partners performing in the higher education and research area, as announced and promised this morning by the Prime Minister of the Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to draw the future Minister's attention to another substantive problem, with the initiative to start solving it as soon as possible. I also pointed out to the previous two ministers, when we discussed this, one such problem, to each one for their area. It is in this particular case the unrestrained status of the University Botanical Garden in Ljubljana. The University Botanical Garden will celebrate the 200th anniversary of continuous operation in three years. The garden is the oldest in Brussels, the oldest in this southeast part of Europe. So far it has been financially supported only by the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is kind of a strange and sort of relic of the past. It is necessary to provide a new status for the Botanical Garden and to declare it a cultural monument of national importance. Above all, dialogue between the Ministry of Higher Education, the University of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Ljubljana needs to be resumed. In fact, the city is no longer prepared to finance the Botanical Garden because the garden belongs under the University, even or mainly because of the Court of Auditors, which claims that this is an unintended use of the congregation. On the other hand, the Ministry of Culture, such as the Ministry of Culture, strongly supports Arboretum Volči Potok, provides salaries for almost 40 employees and there is no specific cultural institution of national importance. The fact is that all the institutions that should be called to regulate the status and to regulate the conditions for the functioning of the University Botanical Garden in Ljubljana have a marked stepmotherly attitude towards it and have been blindfolded before these problems for many years. In addition, the garden came into the world’s best botanical gardens in the world this year. To conclude, I also said this last week about the unwritten rule that at the time of the government's 100 days of peace on the part of the opposition, we cannot do this in this particular case, with this smaller reconstruction of the government, automatically take over. Given that the opposition, during the EU Presidency, is not supposed to take any constructive stance towards the government, it would not propose an intervention against ministers or propose non-trust to the President of the Government, it would mean that if we respected the Institute these 100 days that these three new ministers have a blissful peace until the end of this term. Since we have not supported the government since the end of 2004 there is no reason for us to do otherwise this time. Otherwise, future Minister and former colleague Mojci Kucler Dolinar want to do the best possible work in the new position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I give my word to Ambassador Davorin Terchoon. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this debate, I will not politicise and repeat what has already been said when the resolution on higher education has been adopted, which has been tried by the amendment players to bring out of the agenda or into the undetermined future. What is important is the content and actual enforcement of urgent changes in an area that has not yet been experienced in Slovenia alone. I'm sure Dr. Zupan was a successful minister and a good expert in the field, even too good. He is also an honest politician who was not aware of all the specificities of the transition Slovenian political culture. Some fresh approaches, actions and coordination have not proved real in our collective and politicised society. Regrettably, it is among people who would expect much more understanding, acceptance of correctness, and professional communication. I believe that the candidate, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, will be successful in the implementation of policies and projects, particularly in the implementation of urgent changes in the field of higher education. As a young educated lady, she will be able to contribute to a substantial added value, a value of policy that is aware of the importance of good communication and coordination in the cultural, academic and intellectual expert interpretation of the arguments for the urgent development needs of our country, society and economy. I believe that it will successfully weigh between real and interesting arguments and between truly needed and interestingly politicised ones. Political experience or competences, the ability to organise, listen and evaluate and decide are important. Above all, partner management of higher education, science, technology and research and development activities. I will not go into the expertise and education of some ministers from the past governments, when, say, the areas of information society or the environment and space were led by people with academic titles, but by basic education in the field of sociology. Let me conclude by mentioning the experience when we, as parliamentarians, participated in presentations of higher education visions from 2020 onwards, in the organizations of British Cuncil, the Partnershipd Youth Groups from Finland presented the situation and visions without burden at this presentation and the previous group work, from Finland, Lithuania, Hungary, Norway and Slovenia. I recommend reading it again, including to all of you Members, and especially to the opposition and their higher education, research and development friends. Takes and images of vision. And calls around the world should be an additional incentive, in particular for it, to persevere and be determined to find effective changes for the result, namely, innovation in all areas, with the ability to introduce them into life and the economy. It is the success of long-term sustainable development, the quality and safety of life, especially future generations in our country. I wish her success! I'll support her appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I will be pleased to support my colleague Mojca as Minister, because I think she is the one who is capable of managing this resource successfully. I believe that if I put it on the scale - we know that the Government consists of 15 sector ministries, which is more important or more difficult in terms of complexity, then surely the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology belongs to the top. And I fully agree with the fact that this department must, or must lead, a qualified minister. And as my fellow Members from New Slovenia have already said, we are fortunate to know our colleague very well. We've known her three-year job in the National Assembly, and some people have known her for years. And given her successful work in the National Assembly, I don't see any problems that could arise in the work she's going to be doing as minister. I believe that her education, including her experience in all the works so far, is an argument that actually gives me the full guarantee that I will gladly confirm her as Minister. I must say that Mojca is not an actress with a spare bench, as she had previously heard in the debate. I'd say Mojca is a very good young actress. And why Nova Slovenija just proposed it and did not seek any other personnel - because we believe that it is capable of managing it. However, dear colleagues, I must tell you that what has been said in comparison to what has been said before is actually not only in sport, because they are also characteristic of Parliament, which has happened in this mandate when some have switched from one species to another. You must know that. I want my colleague Moji to do a good job. I am firmly convinced that this area will lead successfully by the end of the mandate and that we will also implement all those projects, which is very important for this area, that this will also be realized during its term of office. I certainly wish her, my fellow Mojci, a successful job and a successful management of the department.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you very much. However, if you allow me, I will ask you to address Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, our fellow Member, to protect her personal integrity and the integrity of her future position as Minister, with a full name, i.e. Mrs or Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar, not just by name. Thank you very much. Next, I invite Member Rudolph Mojet to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u88	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your statement. Dear fellows and fellows, a very nice greeting! I would like to mention the paradox that is currently in the Republic of Slovenia. I refer to this paradox as the largest Gordian political hub in the Republic of Slovenia. It is a simple fact that at the time of the introduction of the euro we have prices comparable to all other countries with the euro, prices of our products do not differ much from those of Hungary or Austria. On the other hand, we have, at comparable prices, this paradox, wages, which are far below the European average, and we are handicapped in our development to this extent, that if such policies continue, then the most educated people will definitely go out, will not stay here, which means that the greatest experts working abroad will also impoverish our economic space, that is, this space of the country. The main role played by Alexander the Great in the Gordian knot was played by us and the greatest role played by Prime Minister Janez Janša in the political node. He has a sword in his hands that he can either use usefully or not use usefully. Surely this sword breaks clientelism, corruption breaks down and other things he foretold before he came into power to do with them, but let us leave this political disqualification aside. But surely the sharpest sword is the fact that it has a well-established policy based on the Lisbon strategy and on the Bologna renovation of higher education, these two are crucial for the transition of Slovenia to the top of the most successful countries or as the prime minister likes to say that Slovenia will become a beacon of Europe. Surely the Ministry of Higher Education is one of these stones where this lighthouse is to be lit. And I have to say, it seems to me that with these personnel exchanges, there was no good work done. Mr. Minister Zupan, as far as I could see, when I read his statement, he did not resign, but was "refused". I think that it was wrong for him not to address the political challenges he was facing as an inexperienced politician, because otherwise, I cannot understand this gesture in parliamentary democracy, that he did not agree that, at least before such a major challenge as the resolution on the national higher education programme, there would be a public presentation of opinions in this Parliament. Because, dear colleagues and colleagues, if this were done, and if this public presentation of opinions were to be heard at that time, this resolution would certainly not have ended up as it ended, it is said with the resignation of almost all the interested professional public and even the entire opposition. This is not a way that would lead to some progress in the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, as Minister Zupan was an extremely professional man and he was not a politician, so now we have exactly the opposite trend. My colleague Mojca Kulcer Dolinar turned out to be a piece of politics. It has also proved, at least I can assess, which I have five mandates after me, that it was very good for the Member, that she found herself in this political space, that she was doing everything for the good of these things, but on the other hand, I must say that if we follow her path, she did not really know the area to which she was going, the department, and that she did not have enough professional competence. It's just my vision of what I got from the public. Because of this, I simply say, if I caricature a little, if I play the first clarinet in the guesthouse of the veterans of Styria, then it is not yet said that I will be a good head of the surgical department at the General Hospital Maribor. This is more than obvious on the palm of your hand, and here, in general, all these opinions are being fucked in this exchange. I mean, respected colleagues and colleagues, that in projects such as the National Higher Education Programme or in the basic, supervisory legislation that determines our lives, the ministers of this government should reach some consensus in the public, but not that the more we go against the elections, the more the opposite of the public, the more these objections to the public are also reflected in the fact that the opposition supports these things, which I think is indigestible, but rather that this position of weakness acknowledges them, and then conceals these weaknesses by saying that the opposition abuses students, the opposition abuse of the university, and more so on. I think that this segment of cooperation, listening to each other, has not gone through this position, just as it did not agree to say that what they said really applies to them - the word applies. I'd say only two cases - do we have all the stores closed on Sundays, as was the rule here? Do we have a third TV channel? And there are 17 other things I'd like to say to you. The last year is running, we will be chairing the European Union, the role of the distinguished minister, whom I have no doubt will be a great one today. I, as Chairman of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, am offering a cooperation hand, as this has not been and has been rejected in the past. Therefore, when she is elected and she listens to us and looks at us, let her choose another practice as she has been "directed" for the good of Slovenia, because when she swears here at this table and when she signs it, she will also sign that she will work for the welfare of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Aurelia Juria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm sorry my colleague Kucler Dolinar isn't with us. Given that the candidate is still a Member and it would be nice if this dialogue and evaluation of her candidacy would lead to her presence, but I believe she listens to us. I'm telling her I won't support her candidacy. Not because I belong to the opposition, and that's why I'm resisting. I'll do it again, and I'll be brief about it. I will simply oppose it because it supported the resolution, a notable resolution that we adopted last week. Many have already said this; the resolution will be the basic document on which it will carry out its mission by the end of this mandate or by the end of the work of this government. Her candidacy also gave rise to an opinion, we all read, of all three university rectors who praised what she stressed in one of the presentations - to revive partnership with partners in the dialogue on the development of higher education and science. But how should this partnership lead when it has before it a resolution, which all partners, all relevant partners, from universities to student organisations, reject unions. The last time they left the hall, they transferred all responsibility, all three rectors and all the academic spheres to the government. How can the new Minister, following the resolutions, follow the guidelines set out, lead the dialogue and revive the partnership with the other partners. I don't want her sick. We certainly get a more pleasant, more beautiful, younger, kinder image of a minister or minister, but politics remains the same. And from this title, I cannot support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I invite you, Ambassador Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] Member Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President, for this opportunity. And I will support the candidate for Minister because I think she is finally coming into Slovenian politics with a new, fresh face. And it is necessary to give the opportunity and opportunity to the younger, and the woman is on top. When we received the first black and white TV in Montenegro, Koroška, where I spent half my life, people who were still at the top of Slovenian politics performed it. Today we have color digital TVs, LCD screens and the like, everything has changed revolutionaryly, only the people who perform, most of those who perform on TV are from the time of the black and white program. Let's give this digital, internet, and I don't know what kind of television, with a new era of opportunity for a new generation. And according to my opinion, Mojca Kucler Dolinar belongs to this generation. We don't know if she'll be a successful minister or if she won't be a successful minister. This cannot be predicted or predicted today. He who foretells this is a prophet, and then he would not judge this hall. The performance of "hearing" as far as I could tell and read it in a magnetogram was convincing. The Minister will follow the vision and the goals. This country's vision is known, it is generally set: we want to become a technologically successful country, an advanced country based on knowledge and science. However, the objectives of the candidate were also defined, announced and identified the way to these objectives. Perhaps it would be good to point out that in this National Assembly we have adopted the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. In Article 49, this allows for the application of a tax relief for investment in research and development, i.e. between 20% and 40% of the amount of these investments. And it's also a good trip for the new minister. Roussean once said that all evil comes from weakness. There was something worse here today in this National Assembly. Weaknesses, however, need to be realized, colleagues and colleagues, that we can treat them as well. In some attacks and discussions about the near minister, I would really like to believe that this is also a link between intelligence and hair color. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I give my word to a magician. Milan M. Squill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. At her presentation to the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, the Minister said that she felt the most important thing about the Lisbon Strategy and the Bologna Process, on the one hand, and the strategy for the development of Slovenia and the measures of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity were of the utmost importance for education, education, research and innovation. On Saturday, the government adopted budgets for 2008 and 2009 at the budget session, and let's see if the government really understands the Minister's candidate equally and gives great importance to education, education, research and innovation. Let us first see if the government allows what my fellow Member from Koroška has just said before me, that businesses actually spend more money on R & D in their expenditure. If that were the case, then, by the logic of the matter, the corporate income tax should fall either nominally or in real proportions. However, the data is different. For 2006, we realised EUR 942 million from these companies, and for 2007 this figure is increasing significantly by about 150 million or 15% more than the corporate income tax. Thus, companies do not take advantage of R & D benefits because almost 150 million euros, 15% more money, is spent on and in the state budget is derived from corporate income tax. When we look at the 2008 budget just adopted, the government doesn't believe that for 2008. Even in 2008 and then in 2009, companies are expected to pay taxes on the income of legal persons, i.e. not to take advantage of tax reliefs, so that they will be seized for the state budget of as much as €171 million, almost €230 million, 25% more than last year, after a famous tax reform with so-called reliefs has been introduced. So, companies have no opportunity, not according to the Government, not that they can actually spend more on R & D. So if companies contribute more and not less, let's see if the government gives more of this money than the candidate lady says for education, education, research and development. All data are not yet available, but data before the Saturday session, unless something very famous has been changed on Saturday, indicate that the share of education in 2004, 4.80% of GDP in order to fall. More than 0.4% or 120 million, 130 million euros of money will be spent on education for all public institutions in 2009. This can also be seen from the data on the growth in material costs, costs for goods from public institutions, and it shows that in 2007, 2008 this growth will be negative. However, it will be an outstanding highlight of the day to the material cost of the country. The material costs of the state authorities are expected to increase by 16% in 2007 and 2008. Nominally, it's a fifth growth. So, I regret that, at a Saturday meeting of the Government, the Minister-designate did not appoint this National Assembly until 14 days ago, perhaps the Government would be able to defend its words in order to give special importance to education, education, research and innovation, because the Government has decided to give relatively less money to GDP and to give more money for its own consumption. And then let's look at this so-called share of the Lisbon Strategy. In the Lisbon Strategy, in a document that we have considered for 14 days on Friday, at a joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, the Government has decided that in 2010 the share of the State budget will be in research, innovation or all these purposes, which mean the creation of highly added jobs, 1.3% of gross domestic product. What Mr Bajuk said this weekend, all I fought was 0,80% or half a percentage point less than or 160, 170 million euros less money will be in the state's research and innovation budget. I am afraid that the candidate for the Minister of Higher Education, and so on, has accepted the offer of the President of the Government, but they have a different understanding of what, as a true candidate, is an outstanding importance of education, education, research and innovation. Is it that companies pay 25% more into the state budget because they can't spend more money to make it easier? Is it that in the state budget there is less money for tuition, less money for education, less money for higher education? Is this, of course, the famous resolution you were talking about? I am so afraid that the candidate lady will need all the help of both the coalition and the opposition when we adopt the budget for 2008, 2009, and I recommend that she take some time this afternoon to look at the website, she is still attached to Lotus Notes, drafts of the budget, and perhaps, for the sake of the coalition, she will draw up some amendments to ensure that the government will increase, if not through the amendments, and give exceptional importance to education, education, research, innovation. There is no such thing on Saturday, and this is, of course, a poor traveller for this minister, if she is young or if she is a woman. All of this will not help if resources are not provided in the State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much. And I give my word to a magician. Borutu Sajovic - he is not here, and Ambassador Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. It seems to me that I will also speak as a fellow member of the New Slovenia Parliamentary Club and put in a defence a few words that have been said to her today in favour of youth, prudence, tolerance, calmness, education - these are the virtues she will need when she takes over the political function and does not go blind - the ministry is a political function. We also had an academic, and you weren't happy with him, and there's a politician coming, and it's not good again. He also has a professional education, university education. We had governments when the minister didn't even have a high school, what if he had a first or second Bologna level, but you didn't complain, I think he ran well. That she's brave, brave, that she hopes - and that's what was said, and I add that she's working, delicate and will never judge anything, unless she sees it first, weighs arguments, professional, political and other; and that she doesn't listen to academic circles, I think she's unlikely because she respects them. However, the fact that it supported the resolution, with the content of a rich resolution, does not mean that it will not listen to the academic sphere. It is true, however, that this resolution brings or opens up such a taboo theme, which is the quality of a higher education study. More practical experience, more useful experience in graduates, experts are expected to combine expertise, science and practice - higher education is also expected to take place in this direction. To create experts who need time. I'd end up saying, it's probably gonna be a long day, but it's gonna be a short year. I would like my fellow Member to contribute with her work to the area she will cover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much. But to the word I call on the apostle Ljubo Germić - he is not; the apostle Villa Trofenik has the word - he is not; the apostle Mitja Ljubeljšek has the word, Paul Gantar has the word - he is not. And Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u98	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that my colleague, Mojce Kucler Dolinar, will not be supported as a candidate for the Minister or will I vote against it, not because of her own good qualities, has been said in this Chamber today so much that I hope that she will drink at least blueberry tea against sugar. I have met with her myself in various situations, including as an opponent in various confrontations, and I must say that what you have said to the good, everything holds up, and I think it is a pity that she is - in chess would say the victim of the lady; it is said that she is sacrificing herself for this government to have peace in those 100 days, until mid-December. This "interregnum" has also taken advantage of the fact that it has gone to the budget, so that it is as minor as possible; at least three ministers will not be rummaging at this time, this is quite clear: not the Minister of Transport, not the Minister of Health, not the Minister of Science, Higher Education and Technology. The other thing that bothers me in this is that it keeps exactly the same policy in all these areas, there is no derogation here and I don't know why we would support a man who in the same way advocates the same policy that we had before, if we had previously opposed and warned such politicians. There's nothing personal here. It's about what makes people put on ministerial posts, it's about politics. One of the things that I also find to be too much of a substantive laxation is in relation to the technology society, or that part of the ministry, which has taken over some of the tasks of the former Ministry of Information Society. In fact, things are completely empty here, without any great behavior, knowledge, but there is nothing to know about the Internet being able to come to any home. Of course, this has nothing to do with 21st century technology. It also reminds me of the 70s of the previous century, when humanist schools were cut off with the same arguments, when at least one part of Slovenian intellectual potential was destroyed, and now again to all those who are not technologically aware of how excited they are, they all seem the same. In this way, we will certainly not take sides with other European countries. In no way have they shared people, students, but this has usually done the market itself. And even today, what happens when you go to college is, of course, not because I don't know what policy, but especially the market; people already know where they're going to get their job or not. Of course, I strongly oppose what has been said in the meantime, this great thank you to Dr. Zupan, who you have so greatly praised. However, Dr. Zupan had to resign in the end and probably not because he's a man, but because he's not very young anymore, but because he was working as a minister like that. So everything that is listed as an advantage is, of course, welcome, but it must not be decisive. In fact, gender equality means gender equality, not an advantage to one another when we talk about it, and of course this cannot be an argument. As already said, Mojci Kucler Dolinar, a fellow member of the House of Representatives, I wish you good luck. But really, I'm telling you, I think it's a shame that she's being sacrificed in such a way for a job she won't be able to do. Three months of preparation for the presidency, then the presidency, the end of the mandate, and, of course, the account will not be presented to this Government, but will be presented to it personally, because then it will be forgotten who proposed it, who supported it and who pushed it into this mess.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! If the Slovenian public is monitoring this debate, it can, in fact, find that there are no major criticisms of the former minister's work. I must say that I expected by the opposition a much more energetic and reasoned debate, especially in depicting what is so, under the terms of "the former Minister has made a poorer or less determined". But apparently it's not. The only issue that is somehow always at the forefront is the resolution and these 29 hours of debate on this resolution. Those of us who sat on the committee for these 29 hours can be said that these discussions were more or less repeated, so these were the same debates, nothing new. As easy as my colleague Squeakl argued, if resources for higher education, science and technology are to be reduced, this cannot be demonstrated. Taxation of legal persons, in a situation where we have great economic growth, is also more likely to run into the state treasury. If we go to see the budget as it grew for higher education, we can see that the rate of increase in 2006 to 7% and the same percentage in 2007-2008 was slightly less than 15% overall. With percentages of the budget, it is necessary to operate against inflation, which has been much lower. I am not saying that this is enough, but the government's goal, the government's coalition is to arrive at 5% of GDP in due course, means the budget and all the other resources that are supposed to be involved in this area. In fact, this is our candidate, the future minister, who also argued very well on the committee, and I must say that she probably surprised the opposition, which is today, with her presentation, I could say what is at risk of her candidacy. I wish her good luck running this department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you, too. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I wouldn't repeat it because it's been told many times. I just want to ask myself something. How can the future minister be, I am sure that she will also be appointed today, because otherwise she cannot be given the power ratio in this National Assembly, how she will participate in a government that feels no need - no minister, no minister - to be present at the time when we are discussing their future colleague, when she is to be appointed at this meeting of the National Assembly for their co-worker, the closest co-worker in the Government. I think it is quite amazing that there is a sense of collective solidarity, that one would say what appears then also in all the actions of this government and coalition, even though within the whole of Slovenia, at such a low level that no minister and no minister is considered necessary to come. And if the President of the Government does not already feel this need for them to come and perhaps say a word in defence of such a previous minister - given that we have heard very good words from Members and it is really strange why we have to discuss today's proposal for a candidate for a new minister. That is why I must say that I have always been used to it, that we have been working together in any group, "holding together", under the terms of the words, and here we see - now two gentlemen have come to the bench who are not ministers and who I think are not here because of this candidacy, but mainly because of the next point. That's it. That is why I think it is really sad that the hall is empty in practice, even on the coalition side, and that the coalition expects the opposition to attack the former minister more hotly. This is running water and we are waiting for what will happen after the arrival of the new member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Evo Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I have only a minute of time, I would like to reiterate only some of the segments that I have also expressed in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. For I believe that, now my colleague, Mojca Kucler Dolinar will lead well the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. Above all, I believe that it will be responsible for doing good to this work, but I am particularly convinced that it will represent us successfully and convincingly, especially when we talk to foreign countries about key issues in the area of higher education. However, I must say to the end that I have been extremely disappointed or appalled by some statements that came mainly from the gentler sex and sit in the opposition ranks. Sometimes I have to say I feel like [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] Some other woman wanted to be in this place and not Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We're done with the list of reported discussers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, too, would be able to make a final decision as a candidate. But since we don't have a qualified speaker here on the government's side, I'm not even going to give you that option. I ask, however, given that we still have time to discuss whether any of the other Members present or Members still want to speak in connection with this point. Since I don't see this desire, I won't even open the case. As a matter of fact, I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. And by that time, I'm breaking this agenda. And we're moving on to 24. At the top of the agenda - firstly, a bill on integration in the public sector. We have four hours and 25 minutes of debate available for this item. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Member, Marian Ptræ. With regard to this bill, a group of 28 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Lahovnik requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposers of the draft law for further explanation of the proposal. Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In 2004, the Republic of Slovenia received the first anti-corruption law, the Anti-Corruption Act, which was published on 15 January 2004 and on the basis of which the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia was also adopted in August 2004. Under this law, the anti-corruption Commission has been re-established. The Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity adopted in this mandate in 2006 repealed the Anti-Corruption Act, but the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by a decision published on 13.4.2007, found that certain provisions of the new law were unconstitutional and imposed on the National Assembly to remedy the irregularities identified within six months. In this respect, and as a result, the Group of Members in which I participated has passed the Act on the termination of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity. It proposed that this area continue to be regulated in 2004 by the published Anti-Corruption Act, which provides a better basis for preventive work in the field of corruption than the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity. It was also clear from the explanation of the Constitutional Court’s decision to suspend the implementation of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity that the initiation of the implementation of this Act could result in greater damage than the continued application of the Anti-Corruption Act, which provided adequate control of the conflict of interest. We felt that it was better to amend or upgrade the existing Anti-Corruption Law rather than break the existing system and build a completely different one. Therefore, in our opinion, it is not acceptable to take a formal approach to compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, which was then promised by the Minister when he found that he would otherwise ensure control over the performance of public office and its incompatibilities with gainful activity. We considered that the issue of anti-corruption should be addressed more comprehensively, and in particular follow the requirements of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which the Government does not foresee in its proposals for preventive action in the fight against corruption and requires a specific independent body, as we already have in Slovenia. We have therefore expressed the expectation that the Government will prepare everything necessary for the speedy ratification of the said Convention, but not that it will delay in doing so just so that it does not have to follow the content. All of this has led to our proposal to keep the Anti-Corruption Act in force, but unfortunately this proposal, despite our arguments in the National Assembly, has not come up with support and was considered inappropriate at first reading. As a result of all of this, the Commission has put forward in practice a proposal for a new law to prevent corruption under existing international conventions, identified shortcomings in existing regulations and perceived problems which have not yet been regulated in Slovenia. In line with the positive orientation of the idea of anti-corruption objectives and given that it also regulates other areas, she proposed that the law be called the Public Sector Integrity Act. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Group of Non-Aligned Members and DeSUS have tabled a proposal for such a law in the formal procedure. The law has important news that I will not fully list. I stress only the protection of the complainant of corruption, lobbying arrangements, conflict of interest prevention arrangements, the supervision of individual provisions on the financing of political parties and electoral and referendum campaigns, the supervision of the implementation of the Resolution on the prevention of corruption and a series of criminal provisions, which ensures that Slovenia will receive a modern regulation, which no country has yet in Europe, and is fully in line with the Resolution against Corruption adopted by the United Nations. We are convinced that ensuring the highest possible integrity in the Slovenian public sector and thus preventing corruption is such an important topic that it does not merely allow for formal adjustments to the applicable law following a decision of the Constitutional Court, which the Government is trying to make with its proposals. In this regard, we therefore reject the extremely formalistic position taken by the Government in the negation of our bill. She pointed out that anti-corruption activities were not constitutional material and therefore the state had a wide field of discretion regarding this regulation, which she meant to say: whatever we arrange, is in accordance with the law or the constitution. In doing so, I would forget that the Constitutional Court also claims that this is not the only truth, since the obligations of the anti-corruption regime of the Constitution are not expressly laid down, but the general principle of the legality of the functioning of the State authorities and their officials as one of the principles of the rule of law also arises from Article 2 of the Constitution. Corruption threatens the rule of law and the trust of people in the most important state institutions, reduces political stability and social peace. These are the words recorded by the Constitutional Court in its decision to partially repeal the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity. In addition, it should be pointed out that, while it is true that the Government refers to the fact that Slovenia does not yet have an express international obligation to adopt such a law. However, this obligation is not solely because it has for years rejected the adoption of the United Nations Convention against Corruption as our document and is not prepared to propose ratification of this act just so that it does not have the obligation to otherwise and more fully regulate anti-corruption activities. That is why the Government should define itself in substance before our law, not by formally saying that there is no need for things to be fully defined. As regards respect for the principle of the division of power, which must be taken into account in determining the bodies which decide on incompatibilities for individual officials, the regulation of one and the other issues in each of the texts of the law is very simple and in this formalistic sense the Government also foresees this. Since the Government does not state any arguments for rejecting the law, we cannot judge otherwise than that the reasons for rejecting only political nature are. It is as if the Government does not and does not allow the anti-corruption commission to monitor and assess its behaviour. This is unacceptable and also shows the duplicity of the Government, which has come into power with accusations of corruption and clientism and now no longer allows anti-corruption action. This is why the proposal for a law needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Lakhovnik will also speak on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! We consider that more anti-corruption is a topic that goes beyond a party's framework, a topic that goes beyond the mandate of a single government, the framework of a single coalition treaty. We also believe that Slovenia needs a law that systematically regulates this area and allows a systematic approach to the fight against corruption. The Public Sector Integrity Act is important not only because it enables a new procedure to establish a new commission to prevent corruption as an independent and independent body, but also in some ways enables a whole range of new tasks and competences for the Commission. In particular, we find it crucial to mention the provision of protection to reporting corruption, which are often subjected in practice to bullying, bullying, various sanctions. This law also gives them the right to redress for the damage they would have had due to retaliation - in some way it should be realized that even in the world they are facing this problem, they are talking about "whistle blowing", they are talking about the problem of those who are warning about the various illegal practices either in the economy, politics or elsewhere. It should be pointed out that so far in Slovenia people who may have reported cases of corruption or in any other way alerted to these cases have not been adequately protected. We also believe that protecting the identity and protection of these people will help us to face the problem of corruption more easily. The next thing to be pointed out is that this law continues to provide for restrictions on the exercise of gainful activities for professional officials, where it provides in principle for the prohibition of any acquisition of activities other than explicitly specified exceptions, and, on the other hand, for non-professional officials, the exercise of such activities is generally permissible, except in explicitly specified cases. What needs to be highlighted is that so far it has been a major criticism that all changes in the state of property must be reported by those who do not have executive power, such as the municipal councillors and in this reporting; of course, this reporting is maintained by all those who have in some way executive or key legislative power. This means that control of the property status of all professional officials and mayors and sub-districts is maintained. It should also be pointed out in particular that restrictions on the operation of the State and local communities with business entities in which the official or his family member is involved are exacerbated. Now this limit is falling, so far the regulation has set the limit at 20% of the equity share, and this limit is now significantly lower, to 5%. It should also be pointed out that the law provides for procedures in the event of conflicts of interest for all officials in the Republic of Slovenia and that it also provides for sanctions, namely the nullity of the effects of conduct committed in conflict of interest. We would also like to highlight the fact that the Commission also has the responsibility or task of overseeing the implementation of certain provisions, the rules on financing political parties and electoral campaigns. It seems very necessary that we also begin to set more transparent criteria or more comprehensive controls in this area, so that we also consider this provision to be extremely important in the law. For the first time, provisions on the registration of lobbyists, their rights, their obligations, the supervision of their work and the sanctioning of irregularities made in the performance of their duties are also included in the Slovenian Order. lobbying is something that occurs in all developed, even less developed companies, and in any case it is necessary to ensure the control and transparency of such activities, because otherwise there may be a great risk of clientism and corruption in this area. Your Honor! Given that Slovenia has not yet ratified the Convention against Corruption of the United Nations, we believe that this National Assembly must have at least the power to adopt the Law on Integrity in the Public Sector, which at least allows certain levers to face the problem of corruption that exists in our society. That is why we believe that the proposal will also be supported by the coalition Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. In accordance with established practice, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u110	Dear Members and Members! In the introduction, it is necessary to state that the Government has prepared a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profit-making activity whereby the National Assembly will fully implement the Constitutional Court decision and replace all the repealed provisions and eliminate any non-compliance or errors referred to by the Constitutional Court. The law fully follows the principle of the division of power on the one hand, the principle of transparency and openness. This law also takes into account the principle of modern public administration. The new law provides that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, the power to control public functions in different branches of government would continue to be conferred on the Court of Auditors, after a certain transitional period in which tasks under the law, I stress, to continue to be carried out by the Commission in order to prevent corruption, to confer on the Court of Auditors on one side an independent and independent position in the system of State authorities for the control of the prohibitions and restrictions on the acceptance of gifts, the application of the assets of officials and the prohibition of business, and on the other hand to the authorities responsible for the appointment of a supervisory officer for the non-compatibilities of the function and other activities. In our view, this regime is fully in line with the principle of the division of power. Moreover, notaries are also included among officials subject to the law. With regard to the Public Sector Integrity Act itself, however, it should be pointed out or mentioned that the many provisions or proposals that we are considering here today are identical or have the same effect as the solutions or provisions already mentioned in the UNJF. It may be appropriate to specify in particular the provision of Article 19 which provides that the Commission would take over part of the jurisdiction of the judiciary in order to prevent corruption when it is in a position to decide on the existence of a causal link between the conduct of the authority and the harmful status or other consequences for the applicant. Such questions of compensation responsibility cannot be tolerated outside the judicial branch of power, nor can the courts be bound by them. Maybe a word, two about the financial consequences. Indeed, the applicant foresees that the necessary financial resources will have to be substantially increased for the functioning of the Commission in the coming years. If we look at 2008 alone, it's a million euros, it's 2 million euros in 2009. On the other hand, if we look at the financial side of the government proposal, this final application of the complete law foresees even a real reduction in expenditure on the state budget. Today a few words have already been said here also in light of Slovenia's international obligations. I can say that the Government has drafted the Law on the Ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which will also arrive in Parliament in the coming days. This will also make it clear that there will be a separate legal area for regulating restrictions and prohibitions on the acceptance of gifts, the prohibition on the operation and registration of public sector officials and other persons subject to the previously mentioned CFSP, on the one hand, as well as the adoption of the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption, the cooperation and adoption of opinions by the public concerned in the adoption of key decisions and any other activities relating to or going towards preventive action in the field of corruption. Perhaps a word, two, about what the government is capable of or does not allow in the field of corruption. It is interesting to look at the latest study published by Transparency International, which puts Slovenia on the global corruption index in this year's 27th place; three years ago Slovenia was still 31st. So Slovenia is the best-ranked new member of the European Union. After this index, we are even better than the Portuguese, Italians and Greeks. But what is crucial when we take a closer look at this analysis, we find that the main emphasis is on the transparency and openness of the system, and it is the government law that brings all these principles and all these elements. In view of the above, the Government assesses that the proposal for a Law on Public Sector Integrity is not suitable for further consideration and proposes that the legislative procedure be completed by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I don't know if it's about bragging about Italy. As we say, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Dušan Kumer will present the position of the SD Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office, distinguished secretaries of state, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would respond to the repeated thesis that the money spent on such or other bodies dealing with the fight against corruption is one of the important elements. Please! The last excess - the affair of about 600 000 euros of paid money from the taxpayer's money and the return to the state treasury says so. That is why, of course, we support the proposal of the Law on Public Sector Integrity in the Group of Social Democrats, since the regulation of the area of anti-corruption in view of the democratic functioning of the system is of paramount importance. Therefore, any regulation in this area must also follow, as has already been mentioned today, the United Nations Convention, which provides for an independent body preventively in the fight against corruption, I repeat, an independent body and I will devote more time to this opinion of the Group today. Therefore, once again, in the Group of Social Democrats, we point out that we do not understand why the Government wants this current, independent body of the Commission against Corruption currently led by Mr Kos to abolish and replace it with a committee of the National Assembly, namely to introduce self-control, self-control of politics. If the direction and warning of the Government - as the Secretary of State has already mentioned - applies to this legislative body, i.e. to the National Assembly, which the Government has written in its opinion that in regulating this area, namely the fight against corruption, it is necessary to take into account, in particular, the principle of the division of power laid down in Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, then the Government must also keep this guidance in its own motions, which it proposes to this Assembly. If the fundamental purpose of incompatibilities of functions is to prevent the concentration of power and the possibility of its abuse, then it is perfectly normal that this should also apply to supervisory functions and that it cannot be carried out by a political body - a commission of the legislative branch of authority composed of Members and Members, as proposed by the Government. This is an incomprehensible step backwards, despite the existence of assessments and findings, and daily practice confirms that nepotism and clientism as a basis for the growth of corruption is a protection mark for these authorities, as well as its political effects on many levels, from the municipality to the state level, and an obvious problem for these countries as well. Thus, corruption is still an ongoing problem that has not yet been accomplished or reduced by its social evil. On the contrary, as it is not a day goes by that we should not have the opportunity to see new developments in nepotism, customerism and corruption, either in the field of public procurement or in the use of public money in individual government departments and other areas. This is an understandable consequence because the former political elites have been joined by new political elites, mainly because of the staff mills of the last three years, which has led to nepotism and customerism being a mandatory ticket for business and success at all levels published by the public authorities. That customer clientele links in supervisory boards of companies where the majority owner or co-owner of the state is the basis for the regulation of matters, from staff to changes in the equity shares of the owners. It is paradoxical, therefore, when those who are a large part of their rhetoric and political energy during the period when they were in opposition were used to repeat their valuable judgments daily: They are all dirty, all corrupt and corrupt, only we are not like that. The entire year 2004 was dedicated to this rhetoric. It was some sort of anti-corruption hurricane of the then opposition. Today, when these same people have been sitting in government chairs for almost three years, it seems as if we are experiencing some sort of anti-corruption bonaco - purely inexorable, as if these problems, these incompetences are not with us, as if the present authority is harmless, as if everything is permitted by the present authorities. The question is in itself why this is so. The answer is simple. Nepotism and customerism as a means of helping concentration and abuse of political power is the basis and attempt to remain in power. And to preserve this power, all means are now allowed to be used to abuse this gravel, which often occurs in the public - including corruption, if necessary. That is why the content of the law supported by the Government, which has also been expressed by the Constitutional Court and which provides for the control of these atrocities to be carried out by parliamentarians, is one of the worst solutions. Especially with regard to the situation in us, to the vague relationship in practice between the executive and the legislative authorities, that is, between the National Assembly and the Government, when the majority in this National Assembly is only extended by the Government and nothing else. What the government says is sacred, so it must be and nothing else. Therefore, self-control is the worst way for me politicians to control politics, as I said. Why do we not, for the devil's sake, in this National Assembly and the Government, assume that it is much more hygienic than the Member State and the government's transparency-related issues to be placed in the hands of someone else than themselves; that it is necessary to have a systematic, relatively independent body for such control - and we have it? If something is wrong with it, let us upgrade it, but keep it, because only in this way will it be possible to enforce a number of other forms of social, political and ethical action that will lead to fewer of these actions and that, finally, the prosecution and the police will have less work to do. In short, in recent times we have often heard that the welfare of citizens is better than in the past, that we are living in a golden age and so on. Maybe! But it is more obvious that nepotism, clientism and corruption have been favoured by the fact that this area is experiencing a truly golden age, because it rarely happens, as I mentioned at the outset that this country gives more than half a million euros, and then, because of the public disclosure, it requires it back. This is really for some golden age. And in the end. For the current power, read the Government and this government majority sitting in this National Assembly, it is essential that something always predicts what will happen tomorrow, what will happen next month, what will happen in the coming years. And then she can always, you have to admit, explain why what she predicted didn't happen. And in the area of combating nepotism, clientism and corruption, which she promised in 2004, she certainly does. That is why in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law to be adopted as soon as possible and that for some, for at least a while, we deprive this time of gold.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Comrade Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u114	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I will support the proposal for a law on integrity in the public sector. In fact, the reasons have been said several times, but let me repeat. It is an important law that regulates now a bit scattered, some not very well-treated area, but also allows everything that started there in 2004 or that started earlier, in 2001 and earlier. In fact, corruption, of course, is not a matter that would only be linked to a culture of different parties, different groups of people, but it is, so to speak, a human disease. No one is immune to it, and therefore it is a reckless package that we accuse one of being subjected to it and the other does not. On the other hand, our support for this law also points to what we have heard today by the Government - it has something ready again. As you may recall, in October 2005 she had prepared a Law on Religious Communities, which we had not yet seen in February. Then we put him in again, well, then somehow he showed up. So there's a lot of pressure to be exerted. At the same time, the government's representative is so rude that he boasts of the achievements of the anti-corruption commission. We have heard, we are in 27th place, and at the same time involve our proposal for a law that no one has ever seen before, as if this law that they are preparing is now the reason that the situation in the area of anti-corruption in Slovenia has improved so. I mean, that's what only a man who totally ignores us can afford! Which ignores the National Assembly as a listener - not as one who is capable of understanding something. These are things that, of course, then prepare a person to start backing up again and more resolutely supporting what he proposes. This Law on Public Sector Integrity is much better than anything that has ever been cut through government filters - i.e. it combines the matter, it makes it very transparent, not to say transparent, and at the same time it explains in some way what is involved in this corruption, nepotism, customerism as options. And when all of this is gone, immunity is also touched and amnesia from it. Indeed, the government proposal would now dissipate all of this, divide it into different ends and places, so that matters would not be clear, while the Public Sector Integrity Act, of course, makes it very clear in its assessment of the situation and in its objectives and principles and solutions what is in fact to be seen in an integrated way. At the same time, when we look at the functional part, it is very clear that there are very few positions for professional officials in which they can engage in any other activity, there are very few positions for non-professionals in which they cannot be employed. And so matters are very clearly also substantively separated. At the same time, it sets out and in some way retains or maintains autonomy, stresses the autonomy of the commission called anti-corruption, and also regulates those areas that have not been regulated so far. This lobbying, which has now been floating in the fog, could have been interpreted in one way or another, but lobbying is certainly one of such positions, or from such communication positions, where there is a lot of potential for corruption or for some of those infrequentities that have been discussed today. However, it must be said that these things about bribery or regulating services for others are not as innocent as they are often thought. It certainly did not end on 3 December 2004, but it was only for a moment that it stopped, a breath caught, and now, of course, it is moving forward in the great gallop. Many governments have already fallen because of this. In fact, even in Slovenia, people have begun to wonder whether it is possible that this is not the case, and we have serious cases in history. After all, Protestantism in the 16th century was built on the criticism of nepotism, meaning nephew. And then the popes and bishops in Europe loved their nephews, whether they were real nephews or improper nephews, to grant their rights. From here. And at that time, the whole Western European world was concerned, and it would not be bad to prevent such matters from being confused and put into some contexts as a harsh control to give the anti-corruption commission a tool in hand, if not a weapon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. However, colleague Jožef Horvat will give the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! I will not talk about the results of Transparency International, because obviously this speaker is not allowed to interpret and comment on the positive results of Slovenia, but to talk more or less about negative things. On the subject of corruption, we have held quite a number of debates in this National Assembly, especially when adopting the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity. In the New Slovenia Group, we have always advocated such a law that would enable the detection of corruption and the effective management of procedures, so when we adopt the above-mentioned law, we have had doubts or the law will even bring the desired effects. The Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the law and has ordered the Government to draw up a law within six months to regulate it in accordance with a constitutional judgment. We are happy to thank you for giving me the opportunity to continue, Mr Potsch. [[...]] We are pleased that today, through the Secretary of State, we have received a message from the Government that the National Assembly can soon expect the amendment of this law. The fundamental purpose to be taken into account by the drafter of the law is in particular the principle of the division of power and the purpose of the incompatibility of functions is to prevent the concentration of power and the possibility of its abuse. The proposal for a law on integrity proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Ptrč could solve the current void, but it has too many shortcomings and inadequate provisions to support it in the New Slovenia Group. It is already an inadequate title, in our view, because the word integrity is used in relation to an individual and a human person. It is further envisaged that a new anti-corruption commission will be set up to be appointed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Government, the largest opposition party in the National Assembly, the State Council, the Council of Justice and the Society of Journalists. We believe that such a way of appointing and proposing candidates for members would be difficult to ensure the professional and impartial work of the Commission. Article 45 provides for the obligation to draw up an integrity plan for all national authorities, local community bodies, pension and disability insurance institutions and health insurance institutions. What would be the impact of these plans and why the authorities required to draw up the plan are not clearly defined by the other budgetary users. Not only does the bill remain in the Commission’s observation and monitoring of corruption but it sets up a commission as a criminal authority for the control of political parties regarding the acquisition of funds, the client’s monetary contributions and the financing of parties by public authorities, public institutions, public undertakings, local authorities, humanitarian organisations, religious communities and certain economic companies. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it would be more appropriate to leave this to the Court of Auditors, which is a better competent body and has an independent and independent position in the system of state authorities. The last thing we would like to point out, and which, in our opinion, does not belong to a law dealing with corruption, is lobbying. Lobbying is an area that, unfortunately, is not regulated in our legislation and is very difficult to define because of the wide range of activities, and it sets the limit when, for example, an informal conversation ends and lobbying begins. If we look at the very strict and narrow dictatorship of the tenth paragraph of Article 3 this means that Members will also have to register as lobbyists. A broader debate on this subject has already been launched in the European Union, and we believe that this topic will need to be addressed in a broader and deeper way. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. My colleague, Marjan Drofenik, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman. Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Anti-Corruption Office was set up by the Government on 13 July 2001 and, on the basis of this Decision, the Office was established as the independent expert service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the prevention and analysis of corruption, the preparation and implementation of the State anti-corruption strategy and the coordination of the activities of other competent authorities in this area. Since the Anti-Corruption Office had limited powers, the Anti-Corruption Act established a Commission for the Prevention of Corruption as a stand-alone and independent state authority whose tasks are to monitor the assets of officials, the enforcement of a law on the incompatibilities of functions, restrictions on business and restrictions on the acceptance of gifts and others. In 2006, the National Assembly adopted the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity by which it explicitly abolished the Commission. The tasks in this area have been delegated to the Commission of the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court subsequently suspended its implementation and repealed a number of its provisions. On 4 July this year, the proposal for a novel was sent for inter-sectoral coordination. We believe that the proposed Law on Public Sector Integrity would duplicate certain provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. First, it is necessary to regulate existing laws, and in particular to ensure their consistent implementation in practice, otherwise all dead letters are on paper. A new law that regulates many things that are already regulated by law in one way or another would not contribute to the improvement of the situation. On the contrary, taxpayers would still be additional, in 2008, according to the proposaler's assessment, a million euros, already 2 million euros in 2009, and probably more in reality. All this for a thing that already exists. Some of the provisions of the bill are superficially regulated and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia has also reported some irregularities and inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At first glance, it gives all 12 chapters a sense of some integrity and, after only a little more accurate reading, it can be seen that the bill is perfect and that, as has already been said, it doubles. The provisions on lobbying are particularly well heard, in particular the information that this law will also regulate this area for the first time in the Slovenian legal order. However, these lobbying provisions are very unrealistic, as lobbying, which is a specific issue, is present in all economic sectors and very, very difficult to control. There are great differences between ways of lobbying and we believe that the law could never be an effective basis for the control of so-called lobbyists. This is too specific and too difficult to actually be possible. Lobbyists are not always publicly known; lobbying is mostly a hidden activity between different actors, under different conditions and with different benefits and counter-services. How can we in reality, for example, represent the enforcement of an article of the bill, which speaks of a lobbyist having to report in writing to the Commission on his work. And an article that says that a lobbyist can only lobby if it's registered in a lobbyist registry. What about those who will never be known and repeatedly secretly lobby for the greatest jobs. Even if this provision is meant for professional lobbyists, we must admit that today almost everyone is lobbying in some way, so it is impossible to regulate the lobbying area in this way in our opinion. We believe that corruption is a major problem and that good mechanisms must be provided for it, if not overturned, and at least a solid reduction. We believe it is wiser than to immediately adopt a new law to wait for amendments to the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, which also specifies exactly who the officials are, the issue of receiving gifts in relation to the performance of this function, the obligation to report data and the public information on the property status of the officials and so on. In our view, duplication does not make sense and would not make a significant contribution to solving the problem. Therefore, the Members of the SLS Group have decided that we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Lahovnik will give the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. [[He's not here.]] Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Vice President, thank you for your word. Let us draw from the view that this country, this government, wants to be a member of the OECD. If we want to be members of the OECD, we must respect their rules. You know what it's like to be in a club, to follow the rules of the club. One rule is that the OECD requires supervision of corruption through an independent body. These are the requirements that we must meet if we are to be in the OECD. Emphasis The essence is on the "independent" committee. Therefore, using names such as, I will say on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on my behalf, I don't care whether it's called Kosovo, whether it's called a wolf, whether it's called a rabbit, or whether it's called a deer, I don't care, the Commission. The point is, the commission is independent. These are the facts that the State of the Republic of Slovenia must fulfil if it is to be a member of the OECD. The proposal for a law on public sector integrity follows these requirements. That way I can understand and understand. Point 2 I take as reasons what corruption is, what corruption is not, where Slovenia is at the time of assessing corruption. It is interesting or wonderful to compare one country with another, saying that between the 27 EU Member States Slovenia is less corrupt than all the new Member States, i.e. more than 10 Member States and even less than three other Member States. But it's interesting to look at the whole thing. When we find that Slovenia is a little more corrupt than Uruguay, which I do not believe in, but this is the official statistical data that says that Slovenia is the least corrupt among the 10 new members, then the official information that it is in Uruguay, I reiterate, is less corruption than in Slovenia. I don't believe and I won't, but still, what are the reasons? Everyone sees them their own way. For me, the sudden sale of state property after a long and suspicious act is not corrupt, but it is suspicious. For me, there is €250,000 in tax advice for electrical wiring in a paediatric clinic, and I think I have been a very concrete, very corrupt act. 250,000 euros. For me, the participation of state officials, government officials; however, I will not mention the names now because I have asked the question of a Member; at the same time, when they are performing a state function, in the membership or presidency or in the supervisory boards of the various wealthy institutions, there is a strange act if it is not corrupt. The division of business on the basis of different conversations and arrangements and friendships is a suspicion of corruption for me. For me, buying ownership shares through various companies, the example of Lafarge Cement - Cement Trbovlje from a few years ago, when 7 companies bought, France Jože, Micka, Loize, their shares, and they all bought for "Lafarge", which became the majority and even the main and only owner. This is a corrupt act for me. For me, the awards in the New Ljubljana Bank, for which I requested data with a question from the Member State, are at least a suspicion of corruption, the amounts I have heard were to be paid, ranging from EUR 250,000 to EUR 40,000 gross per year, at least a corrupt act. And for me, I'm not going to go into this, there's still a large number of corrupt acts that I regularly encounter at a lower hierarchical level than the state. The proposal for a law on integrity has both good and bad sides. It's a good three. To impose a ban on the exploitation of former functions for the creation or promotion of rules of procedure, if any, lobbying is a profession in Europe, the lobbyist should apply as a lobbyist, register and then earn something for his successful business. Do any of you know, colleagues and colleagues, how many lobbyists in Brussels, successful Slovenian lobbyists, deserve what we want to speed up in Brussels to get through two or three doors faster? I know. A lobbyist, by profession, in Brussels, so that a member of the European Union can make a deal for his own pocket four types or four cartons before waiting for him. These are the facts. I've had them myself. Even a lobbyist like that is suspicious of a corrupt act, even if he's reported as a lobbyist. Let's let it go. Another positive point; severe punishment for officials violating the prohibition of incompatibilities, I spoke about this a little earlier, government officials who work in these government services and are peacefully for some time still vice-presidents of the Supervisory Board, such as some institutions, very well known and rich. But so far, everything's fine. From now on, they find that this is not "fine" because this marriage will come or because another marriage will come. And the third thing, which is a good, precise regulation of obligations regarding the implementation of the Resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, is simply a requirement. However, we have two very bad things in this bill and we also openly acknowledge this in the Slovenian National Party. How can we say who can guarantee that this is the protection of the voluntary reporting agents of corruption? You know, I admit that there are people on the other side who see one successful -- anyone between us, you who report to someone who is supposed to do this, this, and this. As long as this expression is not made clear by the voluntary reporting agents of corruption, this law needs to be well or badly corrected. Who can be a bona fide reporter for corruption? The one who makes the arguments. No one else. Let's write a trusty one, not Barovich, because he's unsatisfying, I don't know, a respected colleague, I'll take mine as an example, my friend, and I'll report him in good faith for a corrupt act. This is bad in this proposal. And the other thing that's not, I don't know if it's bad or not, but it's unclear to me, is that this independent commission could also become a criminal organ. But here I don't think it's fair because we trust or don't trust, respected colleagues, the judiciary. Whether it is because of this claim that this independent commission is supposed to become a criminal body, because we do not believe or do not trust the part of the judiciary, which is perfectly clear. However, if we have law enforcement authorities that are obliged by law to implement and pay for them, then this claim that this independent body would also become a criminal body, for my understanding, for the concepts of colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian National Party is illogical. By calling on these content, respected colleagues and colleagues, to overwind and at least this "trust reporter" to define exactly who it is. That it is not someone who, once again, I say "indignant" or whatever, and of course, it is necessary to clarify the right that this is independent, although it is good that the criminal authority should also be on the one hand, but that it should have the opportunity and the right, because of the speed, for the determination, that we will all be revealed and honest before the public. In short, the proposal for a law on integrity in the public sector on the basis of the facts already mentioned, a feeling in the OECD, requires an independent body, based on all the data I have compiled, and I have listed only a dozen of them on the possibilities of corruption, on the basis of three essential elements, this is the imposition of prohibitions, penalties and the regulation of obligations in the Slovenian National Party to the Law on Integrity in the public sector, we will not object to the call for the authors to overwind, overwind, overwind, of course, these two comments, which are very well-intentioned and I think that they are also fair to the independence of the body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Franz Žnidaršič will give us the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u122	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Effective prevention and management of corruption, one of the most pressing problems, not only of Slovenia, but also of the world's societies, depends primarily on the common political will of all of us, who are dealing with another law here today, on the subject of this sensitive and dangerous phenomenon. And whatever debate is under way with regard to the proposed law today, it is necessary, in the light of the will and efforts to establish a less corruptly colored environment, to be aware of the breadth and the extent to which corruption can occur, exist and grow. One corruption will affect an individual citizen, ten harm the citizens of Slovenia, one hundred serious threats to the rule of law, a reduction in political stability and social peace, a lack of confidence in national institutions and a serious obstacle to healthy economic development. In the DeSUS Group, we are sure - this has also been found by the Constitutional Court - that today the area of anti-corruption prevention is inappropriate and in some sense even unconstitutional. The assessment of inadequacy and unconstitutionality can be added to the weakness and incompleteness, which leads to the inefficiency of the area and thus raises questions about the meaning of such half-solutions in the fight against such a powerful attacker. There is no denying that, or so far, it has played an important role in strengthening the anti-corruption fight in Slovenia by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which was created after the previous regulation, since the ranking of Slovenia this year is improved by one city on the table of a non-governmental international organisation that assesses the state of corruption. Slovenia can also be a model of good regulation and practice for three of our neighbouring countries that are far behind us on this scale. If we study the genies of the legal regulation of anti-corruption efforts, we can briefly conclude that in the years following the independence of three laws and three commissions with different powers, composition and status have already regulated this area to date. Our position on a body that should work effectively to prevent corruption from being sufficient to the objective of the democratic system and the rule of law is that it must have the status of autonomy, expertise, financial independence, apoliticalism, but, of course, it must be given all the necessary powers to effectively act in the prevention, detection and repression of corruption. We therefore assess that it is essential that all these powers be concentrated in one body, but that it cooperates with all the other individual competent authorities, which, under other rules, are also given powers to act in this area, and we refer to the police and the prosecution and the courts. Further, based on a study of the genetics of the area, it can be found that the proposal for an Act on Public Sector Integrity and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption are the closest and that they are both following adequately the objectives set out in the Resolution on the Prevention of Corruption in the Republic of Slovenia and contain all those necessary solutions aimed at achieving its objectives. In the DeSUS Group, we have assessed that the proposal for a law on integrity in the public sector approaches the implementation of the objectives set out in this resolution and other international binding documents, as well as those still to become very visible, comprehensive, systemic and effective, since it includes and regulates more areas that are key to an effective fight against corruption. It therefore includes all those institutions and activities which are essential for the establishment of such an anti-corruption environment in which the rule of law is reached by a high level of evaluation. We are therefore giving support to the bill for further consideration and we hope that it will also be able to do so. Of course, as a co-proposer, I argue and understand that additional issues have been raised that need to be settled, that the proposal can have shortcomings and that it will need to be finalized, but if we have adopted one law that has been completely amended, then we can also accept it with corrections or improvements that will come to the surface during the treatment process or prove necessary, and in this sense I am prepared to cooperate widely with everyone who thinks that anything else needs to be added or changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you, too. Ambassador Maria Possonec will introduce us to the position of the National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. First of all, I would say that we have, for my understanding, wherever we sit in this House - either in opposition benches or in positions, all the duty to fight corruption. The proposal for this law has all areas in which it fights corruption, and I believe it is worthy of our trust and attention. Therefore, it provides all necessary procedures for closer monitoring and identification of corruption, at the same time providing a legal basis for the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy, preventing conflicts of interest, protecting the reporting agents of corruption, assessing the integrity of legal persons in the private sector, and, lobbied, I would leave out, in line with past experiences, international obligations and needs, it also clearly provides for monitoring the implementation of the law, sanctions for infringements of legal provisions and a body that will decide on sanctions. I will certainly support this law, and I hope that you will also give it the opportunity to correct it where you can see the shortcomings and that this law will live as soon as possible in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you, too. Mr Kovačič will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u126	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we do not support the proposal of a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Ptræ. For we believe that the proposed law is only one of the attempts that some want to see the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public service by virtue of a gainful activity cease to apply and reintroduce the same commission through the side door as the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which would give some additional powers, so far. We also believe that the proposed law somehow ignores the Constitutional Court's decision, which, by its decision of 29 March 2007, decided that the Act on the irreconcilability of functions, which was challenged by the Slovenian Democratic Group before the Constitutional Court, therefore the Constitutional Court has decided that the law is not contrary to the Constitution, which the applicants have claimed and has not repealed the law. However, the Constitutional Court found non-compliance with the Constitution only in a certain minor part, in particular with regard to the competence of the State assembly commission. The National Assembly has already passed the law, and now, given that the Constitutional Court has examined this law, it is necessary to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. The law that we are considering today is a concept based on the old anti-corruption law. What must be followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court? In that part relating to the supervision of this parliamentary commission over those officials who are not part of the parliamentary or executive branch of authority. So it is the body of the President of the Republic, the Constitutional and Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman and officials at the level of local self-government. In this part, where constitutional non-conformity was, in fact, a matter of constitutional non-conformity with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has laid down an obligation to bring the law into line with the instructions of the Constitutional Court. And as we are aware, as probably all members of the National Assembly know, the Government is preparing a change, or has already prepared a change to the Act on Incompatibilities of Functions, in accordance with the instructions and guidance of the Constitutional Court, which has already been made public recently, and I think that the matter is coming into the state-level procedure very soon. The law that we are considering today, namely the Law on Integrity in the Public Sector, does not follow what the Constitutional Court has written in its decision, but goes into some of its concepts, which is not necessary, and no one claims that in any way is constitutionally controversial, but nevertheless, what the Constitutional Court has said in assessing the law on non-compatibilities of functions, this law of the Group of Members does not follow. We have also heard today that just before the legislative procedure there is also a law on ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Corruption, because in order for this law to be submitted to the Legislative Procedure of the National Assembly, everything necessary must be prepared in advance in order to enable this law to be implemented. As we have heard, this is now ready and will be on the table of Members as soon as possible. And after this amendment or corrections requested by the Constitutional Court, the tasks and powers of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act should be taken over in an important part by the Court of Auditors. In the second part, when it comes to determining the incompatibility of functions, the Constitutional Court, then the Council of Justice, the Municipal Council, the Council of State and Prosecutors, in short, the body responsible for the appointment of officials. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that this amendment or amendment of the Act on the irreconcilability of functions follows fully the instructions and guidance of the Constitutional Court, while at the same time assessing that, following this concept or after this amendment of the amended law, the Court of Auditors as well as the Constitutional Court and other bodies, which I have listed a little earlier, have a significantly higher professional and moral authority in resolving issues related to the area of control of the prohibitions and restrictions on the acceptance of gifts, the assets of officials, the prohibitions of business, the non-compatibilities of functions and other profitable activities and so on. And when we talk about the independence of the body, there's probably no one to "slow down" the Court of Auditors' independence, not to talk about expertise. With the existing anti-corruption committee, such independence would be more difficult to speak of. In particular because, after experience and following the work of this Commission, this Commission has repeatedly resorted to areas for which it does not have jurisdiction. We all know that the Commission has repeatedly put itself in the role of the Constitutional Court when it spoke in its opinion about the illegality of a legal act. However, we all know that this is that an act is illegal, cannot be said or accepted by the Commission to prevent corruption, but can only be judged by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, in these cases, which were quite a few, the Commission has also put itself in the role of the Constitutional Court in preventing corruption. It has repeatedly played a role in other institutions, such as the Court of Auditors and recently also in the role of the Ombudsman, when the Commission considered that police conduct in the matter of control of the situation in Postojna, where the Romani family Strojan was temporarily resident, was committed by the police to a violation of human rights. However, we will probably all agree that human rights violations cannot be judged by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, but are for this by other institutions, particularly the Ombudsman and the Court. The proposed law of the Group of Members, which we are considering today, also contains a provision by which the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, takes over part of the jurisdiction of the judicial branch of power, in that part relating to the identification of harmful consequences for applicants of infringements, lays down the provisions of this law and the responsibilities for these harmful consequences. Such a provision is totally unacceptable from the point of view of the rule of law, since only courts can resolve matters of compensation. It is also not insignificant that the proposed law provides for a substantial increase in the necessary financial resources for the implementation of this law, namely, one million euros in 2008 and even 2 million euros in 2009. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that such an increase is unnecessary, as there will be no need to increase the financial resources in view of the proposed amendment to the Act on the Incompatibilities of Functions. Effectiveness will therefore not be reduced, but in our opinion it will be significantly greater, because we believe that both the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court and other competent authorities taking over part of the mandate will be able to carry out at least as effectively as the current Commission, and their work will certainly be more professionally and legally justified. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it is said, do not support the proposed law and do not believe that it is suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with this presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It is probably essential for today's debate to answer the question whether we are satisfied or not with the current regulation of this area, and in this sense, I think that today's debate will be much easier than it was a year and a half ago or a little longer ago when a significant part of the opposition disagreed that we do not have a properly regulated area governed by the Anti-Corruption Act. We're in a much easier position today. Today we still have the Anti-Corruption Act, we have the Act on Incompatibilities in the performance of the function with a gainful activity, for which the Constitutional Court has ruled that it is necessary to harmonise it in four articles and we have the Proposal for a Law on Public Sector Integrity, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members with their first-signed colleague, Potrce. Why did the opposition feel that the area was not properly regulated and why are they offering a new law? This is a question that I am asking and more thinking about and the more I am reading the provisions of this new law, the more I come to the conclusion that it is solely because of the reopening of questions and the delaying of solutions that are not appropriate, which the Constitutional Court has recognised as inadequate, that those four articles of the law, which the Constitutional Court, or only part of the articles, have been repealed. The Constitutional Court ordered us to correct Articles 3, 5, 19 and 21 of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of the profitable activity adopted by this National Assembly in spring 2006. It is interesting, and this has recently been stressed that the Constitutional Court did not ‘slow down’ the provisions concerning the Commission to prevent corruption, it did not repeal the first paragraph of Article 21 which allows for a different way of controlling it, but only those parts of the provisions which have already been said to relate to controls outside the legislative and executive powers. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because I think that if we really want to discuss the problem it is right to discuss the problem as such, it is said that we are discussing the things "ad rem" and not "ad personam". Here I think we're too caught up in some strange personal frustration and it's totally irrelevant who's sitting where we are right now, as far as this commission is concerned, as far as power is concerned in this country. Corruption is a general problem, not just about authorities and not just about positions and opposition, it is about everything and it is the duty of everyone to do everything in our power not to encourage the mechanisms that they can generate and, therefore, not to resent, to make certain discussions by the opposition, to make individual Members offensive to me, because I firmly believe that all those sitting in this National Assembly are aware of this problem. But we look at these solutions clearly differently and from different angles of view. I look from a practical point of view, and I ask myself - is it true that because we have a commission's problem of corruption on some international scales is more favourable? You're gonna have a hard time convincing me. Hard, hard! I think there are several reasons why things are changing and the biggest problem we have seen in recent years has been inadequate procedures at individual levels of legislation. You know that we have revised a number of things in the field of public procurement and the revision of public procurement and that this has also had a certain impact on individual actions. You know that there is a very large amount of such or other corruption where things do not flow effectively, where, say, at the second stage of a body, it decides on a complaint and it waits one year or more for a decision. I'm talking about cases, like building permits, where someone complains, and it takes an instance to make a decision. These are concrete examples that may be problematic in view of these negative phenomena, and I think that over the last period things have been trying to improve, they are not good, they are not yet good, and they are still a while away, and efforts will be needed to make them better. However, as a result of the conduct of a commission which, according to my assessment, does not even understand the correct concept of corruption, which is in force in this law, is very clearly written and because of some of the principled opinions that have now been issued, this area has been better regulated, it has been convinced by me, see, no one will. I have read quite a few of these opinions, I have read the Commission's report for 2005 and 2006 - I do not take note of these things. From the subject of some formal procedures, some formal data transmissions cannot be addressed. During this term of office, a member of the ruling coalition resigned because he did not deliver a document. He didn't do anything wrong. There was some kind of formal inconsistencies. In the previous term, has a Member publicly proven to have bought a building land at the price of an agricultural land? It's not. And for this reason, we cannot talk about the way in which we have seen it in the post-2004 period being the way in which it improves its appearance. Corruption is under this law, which is a law that is still in force, and which will not change, even if we adopt this law, will not change its integrity, because you have linked it equally, corruption under this law is any violation of the duty of officials or responsible persons in the public or private sector, as well as of the conduct of persons who are instigators of violations or persons who may take advantage of an infringement because of the directly or indirectly promised, offered or requested benefits for themselves or for others. It's a very clear provision. It's connected to each other, it's not one part separately, it's the other part separately. Now, tell me what the principle of legal opinion here is on what corruption is the number 96 anti-corruption commission, the conduct of officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office by informing them of the suspicion of illegality in police procedures in a way that is not within the jurisdiction of the State Prosecutor's Office, which allows individuals in the police to avoid determining responsibility, corresponds to the definition of corruption that I have read a little earlier. If I hadn't read the explanation yet, it would have been too bad, because it's an intervention in another sphere of power, into an autonomous sphere, and it's not an act of corruption. What is the principle of opinion number 60, which speaks of so-called helicopter transport? Where is the desired, expected benefit offered here? She's not here. What are the basic opinions on which the law, which operates with specific names and surnames, deals with specific situations? This is a fundamental problem not of the current law, but of the implementation of this law and is a very big problem in terms of the proper implementation of those international obligations that we have committed ourselves to in our country. Or is it possible for a mayor to act corruptly, who ordered him to stop working on optical cables and suffered from negotiations to provide 500,000 euros in donations to a castle? After what is stated in the law, this act is perfectly consistent with the act of corruption, because it has not benefited itself, but for others, for citizens, but corresponds to the definition of corruption. Look, now I'm asking you, is such an act of this mayor known in public as a corrupt act, or is it known as a commendable act? I probably don't need an answer because I don't think there was anything wrong with it after the content, but it was in shape, but no one wrote it down. On the other hand, this same commission has written countless specific non-specific legal opinions that discredit individuals, innocent individuals, officials, people who do good and cause them to fear in the bones. For they fear that by every decision they make somewhere, they will know that they act corruptly because of such principled legal opinions. Or this story about the installation of cables, which is interesting, that it coincided with the SD's pursuit on this corruption committee or on this budgetary control committee, I apologize for the suspicion of corruption at the Pediatric Clinic and which flew not only to Minister Bručan but also to Minister Bajuk. And the contract signed by the two private companies had nothing to do with each other and which required things to be cleared up, but not in this way, with the public discrediting of individuals who had nothing to do with the matter, that is not good. And I don't think that's how we're going to handle this area. For this reason, I think the attempt made by the parliamentary group and everyone else who signed this proposal may have been well-intentioned, but unfortunately it will not solve the problem, because you are maintaining the same attributes in the law as we have already seen them. I think it would be good to actually focus on these things that are real, and the problems are real, and to actually focus things in this direction. I regret that, in these cases and many others that I have not mentioned yet, because there is not enough time, I cannot help but feel that this body, which should first take care of its own integrity and avoid, as far as possible, dealing with media-driven politically motivated matters which should, with actual principled legal opinions, help where things are being destroyed and have not yet come to an end and, above all, with this interpretation, which we are witnessing in the sense of the yellow press, that the purpose is to discredit individual political victims. This is not good for anyone, not the opposition, not the position. I think it would be good for the law to be amended on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. That's why I won't support this marriage. We must change the law we have adopted. We cannot adopt a new law and give it a huge chapter on lobbying, which is summarized in the 1999 law of colleague Mojet, which you did not miraculously enforce when you were in power. That we must regulate these changes in this amendment of the law and not in the new law. For the purpose of legalizing lobbying for precisely these reasons, which I mentioned earlier, I estimate that we are not yet mature enough because I think that this very organ would crush these lobbyists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much. My word to Dr. Paul Gantar. [[He's not here.]] My friend Joseph Bajc. [[He's not here.]] Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! My colleague, Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, spoke about the reasons for the adoption of the law. Corruption is present, and it is increasingly present. This is also evidenced by the report or the complete report, which was 260 in the first four months alone. However, we agree that the commission in charge today has little jurisdiction or the public prosecution does not want to listen to it. I have incriminated quite a few companies myself, including, for example, the General Sailing, and the Kosovo Commission has found that, and the prosecutors do not want to act, the State Prosecutor's Office does not want to act. I'm sued, and I'll probably have to defend myself because the country is corrupt. The Court and Kad changed the terms of the payment for the purchase of this company, and eventually we agreed on a bid that was made in such a way that they had to submit the application to which they would bid, together with the guarantee before the bidding. Of course, if it is not a corrupt act that whoever buys this state-owned company, the only Slovenian shipowner, raises 300% of the revenue in four months and collects as the majority owner the 50 million that he has invested in this company as a strategic partner, then what is corruption! If it's not corruption that Durs actually requires your strange, miraculous, I don't know what kind of Domna Zavla boy to pay back 600,000 euros, and no one responds, then what is corruption? If the media find that the police are undoubtedly a political girl and that they are involved or trying not to interfere with all existing arms trades as well. What, then, is corruption if it's not corruption? If we have proven the guilty secretary of the Red Cross, then the court will forgive him, yes, then what is corruption if it's not corruption! If we have on the coast of Mr Popovic and the court withdraws after prior consultation with the judge at some secret location all evidence, then what is corruption if it is not corruption! Please! That's a lot of corruption going on with us. The fact is that state authorities and state-owned enterprises operate in this way and the highest number of pastureland is in this area. He steals, sells state silver. Finally, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you will be able to decide whether to sell the only Slovenian port, whether to sell the only Slovenian transport logist and whether to sell Slovenian railways. Gentlemen, this is not done in any country! You go buy some port somewhere in Italy or France! Or some car industry like Mercedes-Benz, BMW or Fiat in Italy, and we'll see if you can have enough money to buy it. With us, that's all possible. Anything's possible. And no one says anything even if we betray national interests. This is the betrayal of national interests, what you do, not just corruption! Some years ago, they could also be sentenced to severe prison terms. We can do it and do it on a white day, nobody cares. It's done without shame. Ministers are responsible, not only materially, but also morally responsible, for human lives. And they're stepping down? No, no, no. In the package, the Prime Minister then suspends them when he sees that the boiling point has reached the upper limit, and then he remembers that it is only good to avoid public debate and that in the package three cancels. Sure. It's already become a practice. The secretary says publicly, here, "I know what I don't know enough about health care, but I will try to do everything in my power." Of course, for whose money? For my money, she'll do experiments for your money. Tomorrow, if it doesn't work, she's gonna say, "Sorry, I don't have a war." You know, really, I'm sorry." This is how you work with education, you do it in the economy, you sell state property and, of course, we also collect so-called illegal commissions, this is already expressed as a percentage, no one is ashamed to ask for a favor anymore. And for anything that would help prevent such phenomena, it would be desirable to support them. And, gentlemen, from the government circles of the coalition, first clean up in your ranks. Return this money that you illegally collected on order I don't know who, with prescriptions that are known and already in force, then moralize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeaky Milan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members, citizens and citizens! We are discussing an important topic, respect for politicians. I regret that the SDS and New Slovenia, i.e. the Slovenian Coalition and unfortunately also the SLS, do not recognize the need to improve the fight against corruption. If you go to the Commission's anti-corruption website, you will see a short UN video that tells you that the price of corruption is poverty, underdevelopment, human suffering and that in the end we all pay the price of corruption. What's the problem? Is the problem in the content of the law, or is it that the Slovenian Anti-Corruption Commission has taken the law very seriously and has prepared a form to report the assets of officials, which has led some to leave the municipal councils rather than to report all revenue, expenditure and property on the day of the act? One of the Members did not give up because he forgot to register one of the lists, he resigned because it was difficult to prove, without, of course, his congregation becoming insanely indebted, how he financed the purchase of this apartment, which even the President of the National Assembly said was not a problem, and the Member could buy one or two apartments in his mandate. If you can do it, fine. I believe most of you here can't buy from wages unless someone else is covering his expenses. That is why this Member has resigned. Because a three-bedroom apartment is expensive and has to be financed from somewhere. In particular, I regret that, because this anti-corruption commission has taken its task seriously and is a form and comparison of this form with the situation at the beginning and at the end of the mandate, it takes particular account of all tax and all other flows from the Money Laundering Office, an instrument that allows for an insight into changes in the assets of officials. I regret that the government already knew on Saturday how to vote today. It's like the government knows ahead of time what the will of the National Assembly is. This is a very strange situation in this Slovenia that the government knows more about what the National Assembly thinks. Why am I saying that? Because on Saturday, the government said to the 2008 budget and to the 2009 budget for the Anti-Corruption Commission: "No. They don't need money. They don't need extra staff. We will only give them as much as they should have under a limited law on the prevention of economic activity with a public function." And therefore it is very illogical that we act here as the Government wants, I understand that you Members of the ruling coalition, with the light exception of DeSUS in this case. You are disturbed by the fact that in order to prevent corruption in the last three, four years of operation, the Commission issued 99 opinions, in 2004 - 11, in 2005 - 21, in 2006 - 24 and in 2007 as many as 42 opinions. It bothers you that the anti-corruption commission writes in its opinion that it is inappropriate for a government without a public order to carry out helicopter transports, which looks at first sight very well, to spend 4 times as much money as it has been so far and then after one six, nine months, even Mr President of the Government tells Minister Bručan, all together you "samaran" us a little bit, as you would say, you've given us a bit of a hint, we've had to correct the government's regulations, go back to the parliamentary bench. Or that the Anti-Corruption Commission says that the settlement for some villain is seriously wrong, that it is impossible for some Minister of the likes of to pay so much and so much work, despite the work being done. You are, therefore, disturbed by the fact that the anti-corruption commission makes it very clear in its opinion that the act of an official who affects his subordinates is by giving them the resignation when they point out to him that it is an act of corruption. And then, of course, you probably don't mind that this official sues the President of the Corruption Commission for issuing such a principled opinion. Or suing an MP or even an ex-boss of Durs who says he's known as the former head of Durs. He wasn't the head of Durs, and he wasn't, at the same time, in the saying, "the main person", to which everyone from the franchise SNP refers. Members of Parliament, if you are disturbed by the anti-corruption commission, then say this, but not say that we do not need the Public Sector Integrity Act, because then you simply do not believe those 2400 Slovenians who said on the same commission's website that the problem of corruption is the biggest in politics. It is therefore right that that Member has resigned. Furthermore, 20%, 19.3% think that this is the problem in the economy. More and more believe that corruption in health and only a tenth is a problem in the judiciary. Well, we still have an independent judiciary. I think it's a very strange situation where the opinions of the anti-corruption commission are today, here's the thing about the debate, if they can't say anything like that. Who, in addition to the opposition and in addition to non-governmental users such as the corruption commission, will point to such a thing? The Court of Auditors? Will you also stop him when he begins to warn you about this because it will become his jurisdiction, or will you simply wait a few months longer? Or a commendable act that a mayor or one of them did something good for the congregation, and then he commissioned the congregation for the next three or four years - I don't know if it's a commendable act. The Anti-Corruption Commission does not deal with individual officials, deals with public function holders, and when holders of public functions such as Minister Bručan, such as Minister Podobnik, like Mr Simič, abuse their position, then she must point out this because it is a corrupt act. Let me finish with the joke. A minister of X, a country of Y, invited distinguished guests to his private golf course. They asked him, "Mr. Minister, where did that come from?" And he says, "Do you see what they say?" "We see.", "See the bridge?" "We can't see." "From here, my golf course." Look at the anti-corruption commission website and you will see that we are not far from this position.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Not that I knew why. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u134	Yes, he mentioned me, Mr. Chairman, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u135	What's your name?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u136	No, no, no. He said "inaccuracies" that I said otherwise. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u137	He didn't name you by name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u138	Then it's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u139	It's a matter of procedure. Make a suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much, I will. All these problems raised by the Member would have been resolved if the Constitutional Court had not, at your initiative, repealed the article of the law which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u141	This is a debate, this is not a proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u142	I'll get to it. That all our income and all our assets are public. Is that what any of you are afraid of? So I would ask, Mr President, that when Members talk about people who are not here, remind them and prevent them from doing so because it is not fair and it is not right for them to talk about people who are not sitting in this Chamber and cannot give their opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic is next. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Again today we are witnessing to the government's excuses, which we already know in advance, "we are ready for the law, we will solve everything with our law, we propose that you do not confirm this law, we will do it better". I will certainly support the law that is proposed, as I am also a cosigner of this proposal. However, it is also important to note from the government representative, who said in his opening statement that the many solutions enshrined in this law, which we are considering today, are identical to those found in their law. Thus, there are no major contradictions and it is possible to amend and amend this law until the second reading, so that it is acceptable for the majority. Thus, it is not a foreign solution, as set out in this law, to the government or to the government representative, who represented the government's opinion here in Parliament. Certainly, the cost is an important factor in decision-making. And this information that we will even save something by means of a government proposal is, of course, commendable and interesting. Warnings have already been made that insufficient funds are allocated to control corruption in Slovenia. And the government's way of getting a commission in which we can control ourselves is to save something else. But we are interested in the results much more than the savings themselves in this case. I can also illustrate this by example when you meet two teams in sports and agree that they will judge themselves during the game. As long as there are no major deviations, of course, this is possible. But when it comes to major violations and misdemeanors, it's a lot harder because you usually need someone else to decide who's right. And I don't agree to a solution that says we can control ourselves. So, an independent body is still very important. However, there is also a problem with the functioning of the anti-corruption commission in the current regime, which has been pointed out several times. The Anti-Corruption Commission is already functioning well, and it also draws attention to irregularities, as it says, about irregularities, but usually the story ends there. There are quite a few such cases in practice. But that's why we can't talk again about the commission doing bad. The Commission is making its own, and it would probably need it to be more quality, to give additional powers, and this could also be added in this law. Also interesting is the statement made by a representative of one of the parliamentary groups - I think it was said, 'We all lobby our consciences. Therefore, it is impossible to arrange and restrict lobbying with the law. Because we're all just lobbying." This, of course, is not the answer to the question raised, and it is not the solution that it would be able to ask. And the last thing that prevents me from having law-makers, whatever this law is called, is the great opposition of the coalition to this law being passed. Who is most exposed to corruption, I ask myself here. The opposition MPs and all the others who belong to this species are probably not. It is likely that those who have the power to decide are making decisions that may also be the result of various lobbying and negotiation. So, if the opposition to this law is intended to actually do nothing in this area and allow things to go as far as they have been going, then this is an important reason for us today to give the law a green light in the vote on this law and to try to complete it in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, when we talk about corruption, we will all agree that this is a serious problem in the whole world, it would be wrong to live in the belief that there was no or that there was no problem in Slovenia. Giving or receiving rewards in a faster or more favorable way to get to the solution of a problem or to some benefit, usually also in an illegal way, we will probably never be able to avoid it completely. That is why I am in fact supporting all efforts to ensure that this social evil, which punishes those who act honestly, act legally and rewards those who actually make rules in society, is supported - certainly. It is never too late, in my opinion, but regardless of the political option in power to take any further steps in this area. I personally believe that the law as such would probably be needed in Slovenia much earlier. The right period was when the transition started in Slovenia - free hunting is called - and when major public procurement began, especially in the area of motorways and perhaps other investments, where in the field of public procurement there were some benefits in a corrupt way. According to my experience, there has been a strong suspicion of corruption ever since. Some would argue that there was no corruption. If that is the case, then the matter is even more critical because the system allowed such infrequentities to occur, which is even more terrible. When we speak of the law before us, we must by no means pass the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, by decision 13.4.2006, decided that the enforcement of the Act on the irreconcilability of the performance of the function shall be suspended until the final decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and until then the law in force shall apply. Of course, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to remove these inconsistencies within six months of the publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, which is until 13.4.2007. Of course, I would expect all efforts made by members of the National Assembly and everyone concerned to go this way in order to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court; it is said that these non-compliances in the adopted law in this National Assembly will be brought into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, the applicants, with all due respect for your concern in anti-corruption, simply ignore the Constitutional Court's decision. You have now prepared a purely third law that does not follow the law adopted here in this National Assembly nor does it refer to the decision of the Constitutional Court. This reminds me somewhat of the work of the commission itself, the so-called Kosovo Commission, which also puts itself in a position where the opinion or decisions of the Constitutional Court are irrelevant, or is brought before the Constitutional Court and gives them some judgments on the legality of various acts and so on. I'm actually really worried about that. This concerns me, of course, support another second thought: the Government, in accordance with what has been imposed on it by the Constitutional Court, has prepared changes and amendments to the law. And in these amendments and additions, which are also published publicly on the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are said to be accessible to all, and also to proposers, for example, as one of the possible forms or types of control over corruption, as far as Members and President are concerned, - it is a solution for the Constitutional Court to do so. Then what does that mean? On the one hand, you ignore the decision of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, you also have such an arrangement, according to the Constitutional Court, the highest authority in Slovenia is not enough to oversee us Members. I agree that it may be really controversial for Members to monitor themselves in their entirety, but if this is taken over by the Constitutional Court and you are not satisfied with it, then there is probably a lot wrong here in these circles. As a result, it seems to me that this proposal for a law has been followed here by some kind of scheming maneuver, some sort of fog, as it is called. We have one law that is currently in force, we have one law that we need to amend or supplement on the basis of the Constitutional Court, and we have a third law that you are proposing. In fact, as far as I am concerned, it leads to some imprecise situation and I am not entirely sure that the proponents are serious about trying to solve the problem of corruption in this way, but whatever it is, even in Slovenia. The colleague, who mentioned some bridges earlier, also mentioned how many decisions or opinions were produced by this famous commission, including 42 for 2007. Maybe it's the right number, but there's at least one opinion I know. And this opinion has a great deal of weight, with all due respect, but it relates to the strong corruption of Members, who are members of the Transport Committee, who took the train from Ljubljana to Kopra to a working field meeting free of charge with the train of Slovenian Railways. And this is the main problem of corruption of Members in this country! Thank God, I'm calm, I'm sleeping peacefully, because luckily at this field meeting I wasn't, and I hope that this commitment, that I'm not corrupt, I don't know, was granted. But that's also what these budget funds are used for! Not to mention some expert opinions, which I think are simple, but even if it is 10 euros, I should not order, because this is not in line with the budget or the purpose of these funds. And the commission that fights corruption should be the first to respect the law even more accurately. For all I have said, I will not support this bill; I will wait to consider a proposal for a law which, in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, will also eliminate those disagreements found by the Constitutional Court. I think that the problem of control of corruption, whether suspected or possible corruption, in all bodies, wherever it is possible, will easily be resolved in the long term. If I had forgotten, my colleague mentioned before me how great this commission is, she issued some forms where we've all been reporting our assets since we took office, and then we'll give a final report, a calculation of how much we've been rich or not. Perhaps it would not be bad if this commission issued another form, a form perhaps for a longer period of time. For some of you who are sitting here, I think it would be quite good if you could fill out such forms, but you might want to take a look at who and what he earned during what period. Let me finish. I will not support this law alone, I do not want to have, on behalf of the so-called fight against corruption in Slovenia, a super commission, with a super supervisor who will oversee everything that is going on in Slovenia, anyone that is happening - it is better to sit on his own and do his job.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that this law is not a third law, but it is a second law, because, after hearing from the members of the coalition's mouth, it was not at the time that we signed the Law on Integrity in the Public Sector, that the second law appeared just before the present, and I hear that we will finally be able to consider in the National Assembly the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Prevention of Corruption. I think it is mere conjecture to say that, in the four articles, the amended Law on the Incompatibilities of Public Functioning with gainful activity can eliminate all that this law, by its adoption, could have resulted in the fight against corruption if it had not been terminated by the Constitutional Court. I think I can imagine what will happen in the end. However, I think that such an integral text - not because it is an integrity, but an integral one as a whole - which covers virtually all the possibilities of preventing corruption and also includes such activities as lobbying, such as protecting the complainant of corruption, I think that these are things that are often the source of corruption in Slovenia or, I will also say, the reason why some corrupt acts are never detected. Because the applicants are afraid to report or those who have detected corruption are afraid to report corrupt acts because they do not know what their consequences will be; not only for the job, but also for their physical safety, or for their loss of any opportunity - if this is the case, here for the applicant who carries out a private economic activity - that they will lose any business. As it happened and as it still happens in some municipalities in Slovenia. I think that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not simply say that corruption is the greatest evil in this country. Nor is it that they think that corruption exists in Slovenia. I think that we Members and Members of this National Assembly have had the opportunity to initiate some of the procedures that have finally shown that corruption has been and is already in this mandate, so that no one would accidentally start to talk about how corruption was only in the past mandate and now, at the same time, because a law that is not working at all has begun to decline, that we have moved for four places to think better about how Transparency perceives - I do not know what this organisation is already called, which identifies the situation of each country in terms of the level of corruption in that country or what its improvement is in a given period. [[...]] Let's say we move on to the lobbying. I have heard at least three times today that we are not mature enough to register lobbying as a business activity, to lobby everyone, but we cannot say this now that lobbying activities need to be reported and reported to the commission on lobbying in the past year, but precisely because the boundary between the legal or non-corruption and corrupt conduct of the lobbyed entity and the lobbyist is as thin as the border between, as it is said, sometimes between a lunatic and a genius or something similar, between legal and illegal. Only a very short step needs to be taken, and we are already across this border. As a result, there are certainly a number of advantages in this law that would regulate individual matters and that would also prevent corruption in the public sector. Let me just say, as an example, by the municipalities, until the new law was repealed, the anti-corruption law, we have already begun by the municipalities with an integrity plan; and that was not exactly the case. It was a very useful activity. People who work and work, we worked in municipal administrations, our eyes opened when we actually found out how our employees in municipal administrations were actually at risk of not even being aware of it. It was only after reading some of the questionnaires, instructions, etc., that they found out what it meant to be threatened or threatened with its personal integrity regarding the risk of corruption in the congregation, rather at a state level, where there was much more money and much greater interest. And I'll be back in just a second to lobby. In Brussels, there are several thousand lobbying companies and groups that are all reported to the Commission of the European Union and are all under control, but I stress, however, that in the European Union, in Brussels, in Luxembourg and elsewhere, there is a fairly common phenomenon of lobbying into the sphere of corruption. And that each mandate of the European Commission should appear one, two, three or more such cases. Thus, I believe that Slovenia would take a step by adopting this law to move from a shadow of doubt to a light where all our actions, us, Members and also all other officials and public servants, who, in one way or another, could be exposed to corruption, in order to be pure and not to raise doubts: first at home with our citizens and citizens and then also in the foreign public. I think it is more important what they think about us, what our citizens and citizens think about our officials than what any foreign organisation thinks, and even if it thinks that we are in front of Italy or Greece, as far as incompetence is concerned - 'and they are what' they would call it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would ask you to take into account in the debate that this bill is not rejected by the coalition, but to discuss in the direction that at least one coalition party is the one that supports this law. With regard to the comments that the applicants ignore the Constitutional Court's decision, such observations come from the parties to which it is a daily way of life. In that sense, I'll give you one example. Within a month and five days, it will be one year after the Constitutional Court has decided on the Law on Hunting - instead of implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court, the authorities change the law. For what decision of the Constitutional Court before that, the Constitutional Law would undermine the Constitutional Court's decision not to have to do what it says. If you thought very seriously that we were ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court, then, at least as far as I'm concerned, I can say that I found this in this government coalition. With regard to blind manoeuvres, what was that nonsense about corruption and customerism that lasted several years before the last state-run elections, and from which I expected much, and also in the debate on what we will write in the coalition treaty, I mentioned in the negotiations that we should immediately catch the scoundrel that we are corrupt and adequately addressing. At that time, I was told that one thing is what you say when you're in opposition, and another story is when you're in power. Thus, hopes began to dissipate at the beginning of this mandate, and for three years we did not catch, deal with, close or sanction any such case. So much about how someone was so sensitive to corruption before and how sensitive they are now. Not to mention reports by the Court of Auditors, which are raining in this direction, that they are billions, in terms of tolars, of amounts more than unlawfully spent. Case of the 2005 Court of Auditors' report for UKC, where 18.8 billion illegal transactions were, "nothing". If we are that authority, there is no need for us to have any law or commission on anti-corruption and so on, the police, the prosecutor's office and the judiciary to sanction such conduct. It would be enough for a couple of bosses to replace a couple of those who signed these accounts to discharge their duties and so on, and people would believe that we want to do something. None of this happened. The minister ordered some tables, some others came in - and no one got hurt. So much for this blind maneuver. Our intention was well-intentioned in that we wanted to draft a law that would be better than the previous one. And here I am very disturbed by the unwillingness of our coalition colleagues to help improve this proposal, which could be corrected to be acceptable to all with significantly smaller interventions, such as the last time such a law was adopted, when the whole law, except the title, was amended. And in this sense, it's some kind of 'nat', some kind of non-intentional opposition, everything else are excuses. And, of course, it's a blind maneuver, how we're going to discover America with another law, while the mandate will end and everything that happened in the meantime and all the taxpayer's money that went unknowingly, illegally, according to reports that we have from various supervisory authorities in this country, will go where it went without one harming himself being deprived of his freedom, not to say, and his misplaced earnings from such an address. In short, I will support this issue to the end and will be sensitive to proposals, to additions and changes. However, in order to endure so quietly the intense opposition, which has one purpose, to bring the whole matter back into a future from which nothing important will be born, and for such things I am not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u152	Otherwise, it's called a replica, but I would like to sincerely apologize to my colleagues from the Democratic Party of Pensioners because I didn't want to push them into coalition in that sense. It's called a coalition, and here I'm sure DeSUS, like many things, has such a positive attitude that it was a mistake to use the term coalition; I haven't thought about you, but it's logical that you've been captured. Once again, a sincere apology, Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, I would answer or say to those who are spreading thesis or some kind of false claim that the Law on Integrity in the Public Sector is a relic of the Anti-Corruption Act, which was passed in this National Assembly three years ago, you must be aware that the Law on Incomparability of a Function, which we adopted six months ago, is a relic 15 years ago, because the content of the law is exactly the same as that adopted in this National Assembly 15 years ago. Otherwise, I would say, you're all right, the one who said that the transition period and the transition itself is one of the richest fields. And it's true, a lot of people have made a fortune in this transition period. For the time being, however, it is necessary to say, for today, that we are in the second phase of transition and that there are always two kinds of people in such times: those who make changes and start changes, and those who take advantage of these changes. And at this second stage of the transition, unfortunately, the changes that have been made take advantage of those who are currently in power or close to an official court. I will not repeat what my colleague in front of me, who sits in the coalition, has said, but in many ways, what I have said on behalf of the Group of Members, he has certainly given me right. So once again I would stress and point out, ask yourself, those who were loud three years ago in this National Assembly or outside if you were not Members, and I ask you, what is Orion's epilogue? What's the epilogue of the Real Guy? Etc, etc. Don't talk about it anymore. At that time, you spent dozens, hundreds of hours arguing corruption, clientism and nepotism. Don't talk about it anymore. Some of these things, which you described as corruption at the time, were now forgiven before the judicial authorities and the contents themselves. So, obviously nothing was wrong. Don't even talk about it today and correct the word for back when you talk about us today, let's not talk about names, concrete content and surnames, about people who aren't sitting or who aren't present in this State Council. In 2004, you didn't know anything else to talk about as nepotism, clientism and corruption. Today, of course, once again, as I said in the introduction, we have some anti-corruption bonaque, completely windless. There's nothing going on in this area. I have asked the question twice to both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Data, those you wanted, you heard and saw: there is no corruption in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. After all this discussion, I would say the following: This National Assembly has adopted the Act on the Incompatibilities of Functions. This law was adopted by this National Assembly, never repealed. And given that the Constitutional Court had made comments on this law, some also stated which things needed to be changed or corrected. And in this direction we have to work, but not now what we have accepted, what the National Assembly has adopted, throw aside and come with some new law, which is essentially the concept of the old one, what we have already said in this National Assembly with the majority will not to go forward - and we have adopted the Law on the Incompatibilities of Functions. So it seems to me that all this talk is actually about trying to preserve the relic in every way. In fact, it is a matter of relict and glorification of a commission and of a president to carry out this function for life. And after the Constitutional Court has issued its decision, the political party of the Social Democrats, who has also now proposed this law, has already introduced a law into the procedure of one law, namely, repealing the Act on the Incompatibilities of Functions and reviving the Anti-Corruption Act. And now this law is trying to do the same. The debate also mentioned something that I find very difficult to agree with or very difficult to listen to; that is, that the coalition treaty discussed the fact that let us write down and let us make it happen, catch the locusts that exist, and then we will solve what was said before the elections, about the fight against corruption, customerism, nepotism and so on. That's all well and good, but the coalition isn't the one who could make the "half of the maggots" come true. We have a legislative branch of power, we have an executive branch of power, and we have a third branch of power. This is a court of law. We have law enforcement, the police, the prosecution and the courts. And these are the ones who can or must detect crimes, corruption and so forth and hunt down the maggots, not the coalition. This is essentially the style of those regimes that Hugo Chavez, Fidel Castro, or Joseph Broz Tito dictates, but that is how they act and act. This is not possible in democracy - unfortunately; or even better - luckily. I have to reject this kind of talk and I can't accept it at all, and I think we should all avoid it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you. It was also mentioned several times in the debate that the government’s proposal or the draft law that is being drafted, the amendment of the law, is once again a promise that will not come to life, or that you will not see it on the bench, or that it will be delayed again. Anyone who wants can look into the legislative process, that is, into government material. This material has already been published online, so the intention and readiness is fully demonstrated here and, as I said in the introduction, in the coming days you can expect this law on the benches. With regard to the dilemma or controversy regarding the independence of the body. The government concept or government solution proposed speaks of the Court of Auditors. I think that the Constitution is perfectly clear here, the Constitution itself provides the Court of Auditors with a special position and the Court's independence is, of course, one of the fundamental conditions. By asking whether Slovenia will meet the OECD requirements with this concept prepared by the Government or not, of course, is not in place. Regarding the dilemma "so what", if Slovenia is where it was put in some skyscraper organization. When, abroad, some Slovenian representatives in such and other organisations put Slovenia on or plow it in some light, as is not true, and blacken it in the area of corruption, of course, we do not then ask ourselves "so what", but then we can very quickly refer to these international institutions or organisations. At a time when some organization shows this image differently - and I think the criteria as assessed here were quite clear - of course then this is an insignificant element. There will be no mistake far from being satisfied in the government with the situation in the fight against corruption. Far from it. There will be a great deal to be done, and it is precisely this effort, and all that we are doing is making things move and change.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Does he want another word from the motioner? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I speak to the public to understand and know where the fundamentals and fundamental issues are, and to make sure that anyone with their suggestions or in this debate is confused and who is not. For I am not optimistic that Members of the Democrats, the People's Party and New Slovenia would convince them to support, even though this would be extremely correct for everyone. The issues that we have been discussing together since 1992 as an arrangement have been issues of incompatibilities in the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, the issue of receiving gifts and the issue of registering assets. Since 1992, we have settled these issues and have been dealt with by the special parliamentary commission on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. In this context, you know, no cases of infringement have been identified. I do not claim that the violation existed, but no case of infringement has been established. However, at least in 2002, 2004, the intense criticism of the then opposition of the current coalition parties of Democrats, New Slovenia and the People's Party was that the legal regime of anti-corruption action was insufficient and that this area needed to be re-organized in order to prevent or ensure the possibility of preventing corrupt practices mainly in the authorities. In the spring of 2004, the Anti-Corruption Act, which, in addition to the issues of gifts, non-compatibilities and property reporting, dealt with some other issues in the same way, in particular settled the issue, the report on integrity - in short, the specific programmes that all state authorities and local communities had to adopt and predict where there was a risk of corruption; it adopted a definition for a special independent body that would no longer function within the Government but would be called the National Assembly; and this is what the Kosovo Commission is called domestically. For two years such an authority existed until there was a change of power until the then coalition came to power and found that such an independent and independent body was not responsible for it and that it was necessary to amend the law. And then the bill's proponents proposed a return to the old state by 2004 - only a parliamentary commission that will identify the issue of receiving gifts, the incompatibilities of performing the function with the second part, which means profitable activity, and the issue of property status. We returned, what colleague Kumer said, in short, in 2004 again to the situation in 1992 - and we did not foresee any more organised anti-corruption action. Once again, this law was brought about by a constitutional conflict. The Constitutional Court found that, in the work concerning the competence of the parliamentary commission which could examine gifts, the property situation and incompatibility were not only for parliamentarians and those who were in some way dependent, the legislative branch of authority - even for some others, in part, the speech on justice was first discussed, and the last day was practically excluded in the debate, but for local administration, self-government, and also for others, the Constitutional Court found that the provision was unconstitutional, it had been repealed, at the same time provided that the integrity plans were suspended and not implemented, and said that the provisions were not constitutionally contested, but did not say that they could or should not be. Nowhere did it talk about the fact that the independent and independent commission was unconstitutional, that the law should not have foreseen that it should not have worked. Since there was no more in the law that the Constitutional Court had judged, it was no longer because this National Assembly with most of the three coalition parties - that I was again precise, Democrats, People's and New Slovenia, because it did not want to work in this way. This was the situation in 2006 when we, indeed Members of the Social Democrats, introduced the Act repealing the Act on the irreconcilability of performing a public function with the desire to fully enter into force the old Anti-Corruption Act, which was never declared to be unconstitutional, no provision was declared unconstitutional and that this law was being built up, but not as formally announced by the Government at the time, is being sought for solutions only and only in adapting the powers of the Parliamentary Commission only to parliamentarians, in short to the legislative and executive and administrative branches of the authorities, not to the judiciary, the Court of Auditors and to simplify others. This law was rejected by the majority of parliaments and, therefore, on the initiative and in preparation of a commission to prevent corruption in some parliamentary parties of the Social Democrats, the People's Party, Zares and DeSUS, we tabled a new proposal for a law. With the new proposal of the law, we want to preserve the issues relating to gifts, to register property and to be incompatible in the same way as it has been for about 15 years. At the same time, to consolidate the possibility of a special anti-corruption commission, integrity plans, as was the case in the previous 2004 law, and to implement some new chapters and arrangements that have not yet been implemented - lobbying, protecting applicants and other issues. To say that this is an abuse of the Constitution is pure fiction and a fat lie. The Constitutional Decision can be implemented in a variety of ways and no one will tell me that implementation is possible only through the direct implementation of the explicit requirement of the Constitutional Court decision due to the powers of the parliamentary supervisory commission. It's also possible in other ways. And that's why it's not true. It is true, however, that we want to address the issue of anti-corruption much wider than we are now. We want the anti-corruption commission to continue to exist as an independent and independent body, but to be newly designed and with a different composition, not to say that it is a commission that is not sufficiently plural and over a variety of interests. It will also work soon, because, at the end of the term of office of the current commission, which will be in six months or so, a new commission will be appointed. If the problem is that the current Commission is still operating, the transitional provisions, if confirmed, may also find different deadlines for action; and this should not be a particular problem. It is true, however, that we believe that at the moment when - and I am pleased that the Government has announced today - that Parliament will ratify the United Nations resolution against corruption, then our obligation to have an independent and independent body will be. We are arguing that this is not merely a matter of property, gifts and incompatibilities, but that this will be otherwise regulated by the Government's proposal, but that we need a special independent commission with a professional and political character to act against corruption. We had three, four months ago, several colleagues and colleagues at the interview, representatives from the British Parliament, from Ireland, who were handling this issue. It was explicitly said - there are the Presidents of the Court of Auditors, the President of the Supreme Court, sometimes the President of Parliament - and then they said that this was not his function and that it should be the Secretary-General - those who are politically judging such possible conduct. Therefore, our firm belief is that the current opposition plus DeSUS has not come into operation. Since we have been in opposition, we have been demanding that the anti-corruption system be maintained in a manner defined by the Anti-Corruption Act, which you, the government majority, at this moment do not know either with or without DeSUS, but I think that without DeSUS, you have repealed and adopted the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Admit it and tell yourself that you did not want to have anti-corruption commissions as an independent and independent body. You didn't want to study and prevent other issues, but that this commission would act from 1992 to 2004, when it didn't do anything in the 12 years. She had three times, four times a year's session, we were writing reports, she put them in an envelope sealed, if anyone forgot or didn't want to send him a reminder, she had no sanctions, and even to the one who didn't send it, nothing happened. This was the situation until 2004 and this is the situation you would like again, so you do not agree to adopt the law proposed. I expect that clarification of these fundamental issues will only contribute to changing the vote. However, I say explicitly whether I repeat what my colleague Kumer said: this refers to financial means and the burden is really first-class cynicism. For the few million Euros needed to operate this commission, it would be paid several times with everything the Commission would prevent and detect. I believe you're nervous, by your own words, when you listen to or read the general opinions given by the Commission on individual actions. I get nervous, too, and I say, "Well, they've found something again!" This is the only way to give general guidelines for action, because these general opinions do not yet constitute any specific sanctions, except to inform each and every one of us that they are slowly thinking that corruption has many hunters and many practices that show preventive prevention. Anything else will be the operation of the competent judicial authorities from the charge, the application or the charge, the trial - if there is. This has been done before, and this can also be done now, and therefore we do not need a special commission. I expect that we may just reconsider this issue. And like my colleagues and colleagues, the co-proposers said that if there is a matter to be changed, we are open. If Article 19 is disputed and constitutes an infringement of the jurisdiction of the court, we are open. If it's a problem for the commission to be a criminal organ, we're open. What else has been said as a concrete comment on the existing text? And if everything else were appropriate, we could support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded the discussion of all those who have been reported. However, since there is still time for discussion, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have the floor. I'd say that, but every debater has five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to make a few more arguments that it would nevertheless be good to adopt this law as a good basis for further work with it. The doors are open and we are ready to talk, especially with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that we do not attach, in particular, that the Government would not assert to the claims of some Members that our proposal for a law to deal with the problem of persecution of corruption is not about content, but about a person. Just the opposite. You have heard that this law provides for the reappointment or appointment of a new anti-corruption commission, which is also completely different and in a different way from the Commission so far. And that we are by no means the ones who would defend the current composition of the Commission at any cost and not primarily because of the name itself. We are convinced that this law is a significant improvement in the Anti-Corruption Act, but it is not from a far comparison with the law adopted last year, which was partially repealed by the Constitutional Court, nor far. I have been a member of this National Assembly in the first term, and I well recall the functioning of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity. It was actually what we heard in the debate when we adopted the current frozen law, namely that it was a toothless tiger. The Anti-Corruption Commission is by its own actions, its own opinions, including its applications to the State Prosecutor's Office, which, we must stress, is by no means an independent body, because state prosecutors are appointed by the Government and not by the National Assembly. We have also observed how the Attorney-General acts in individual cases filed by the Court of Auditors or the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. They usually end things somewhere deep in the drawer, as is the application of the Ombudsman just before the end of his term of office. Thus, I can say that the excuse that the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court will take over their function is, with how much work the Court of Auditors has, how much work it has and how much work the Constitutional Court is overloaded, it is a pure farce to talk about the fact that this law, the law the Government is preparing, is still unacceptable to me, and it is also a fact that under pressure from the public or the fact that it is already in the procedure of the Law on Integrity in the public sector, which deals significantly better with the problem of corruption than only with beautiful corrections, I cannot use another expression, like a ridiculous, farstic law adopted by the unusual association of the greater part of the coalition and the work of the opposition last year. I am convinced that the coalition Members should, however, once again consult with representatives of the government and ask whether it is better for Slovenia to keep its face before its own, domestic and foreign public, whether the National Assembly will go blind again on the path of humility and unconditional obedience.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I stressed in the debate and after that I heard again some kind of debate in this sense, "we want to settle this area and you don't want it." I have repeatedly pointed out that in this area, if any, it is not yours or ours. Finally, in this bill you are proposing, officials under this law are Members, members of the Council of State, President of the Republic, President of the Government, Ministers, State Secretaries, Judges of the Constitutional Court, Prosecutors of the State, Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Ombudsman, Officers in the services of the National Assembly and so on, Officers of the Self-Governmental Local Communities. These are people from a political perspective, from all political options, and also some belong to no one. So the problem we're dealing with is a general problem, and I think we need to be aware of that. However, I have a feeling that some people somehow have a lump in their throat, czech, in 2004 there was a change of power due to the warning of corruption and customerism. And I have a feeling that some in particular in the types of SD would like to repeat this pattern by characterizing it as thieves. That's not right. That's bad. This particular case, which has been exposed today, can now be named by former Member of my colleague Paul Rupar, talks about it. Paul Rupar, a colleague, committed a high moral act when he resigned. I don't think there was any need to do this, but on this occasion, given the flooding that's going on, it's important to say. The municipality of Tržič is in charge of 2.7 million euros. In accordance with the legal limits, it is responsible for those investments which mean improving social, social and municipal infrastructure in its area. He bought the apartment, which he had been told was fair, with his own resources and with credit. The application to the Kosovo Prosecutor's Office by the Kosovo Commission was rejected in the Prosecutor's Office because there were no signs of a criminal offence. So much for that. Now, because you're already talking about these things and because you've got yourself into one minor thing that has nothing to do with corruption. Who are those so-called tycoons who took advantage, as you say, of the time of transition? And I'm not saying they've done anything illegal and illegal, but among the owners of BTC, Viator Vector, if you want individual trading chains, etc., I really don't find any, like you say, of ours. But I do find some who really know some people in this house. Really. So I don't think we're going to get smart with this problem, or we're not going to handle it in a smart way. I don't, my dear colleagues, mind your own business. Nothing at all. I'll read them. I have a problem with the way things are done, and it bothers me that, in terms of problem-strickenness, individuals are mainly exposed to one particular side. Look what it says here. I'm not gonna name people. In its letter, the Mayor invites the public authorities to entrust the legal companies or lawyers and notaries with the provision of such services in the business of legal offices and notaries, which he referred to in his letter. Then it is the principle of the view that such a general orientation is not a conduct that fulfils the signs of corruption in the sense that I have previously read. If that opinion were not to be written, taking into account the name and surname, the question would be, if so. The question is, if this mayor's name were not some mayor from the coast. Or anyone else. That's the problem. Not to say that the payment of operators for winding-up works is an element of corruption because work that has not been carried out has been paid. I have now said in the case of these floods that it will not happen again what happened after a few years when the payments of the works that individual companies were obliged to do were problematic when there was no one hoping in the endangered areas. I hope this doesn't happen again. Such principled opinions, respected colleagues and colleagues, but they really bother me and irritate me because they do not help to clear up the phenomena that are the cancer of every society. And that's all this is about. And when I said in the debate that the best-willed bill did not solve it, that was a fundamental argument. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and a fundamental direction why I cannot support such a proposal. [[...]] I would be glad that the Constitutional Court would not repeal that provision which said that all the assets of all public officials were public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At the time of the debate today, there was actually a lot of interesting things to hear, from the fact that, of course, there is little corruption, but in fact no figures were presented. I recommend that you go to the Commission's anti-corruption website and see what these things are like in Slovenia. For 2006, a survey was carried out where responsible persons were asked mainly in companies, companies - large, small and medium-sized companies - what they thought was corruption. The results were also compared with 2002 and 2004. Here, of course, it is evident that the feeling of how much corruption in Slovenia was somewhat smaller in 2002 than it was in 2006 and, of course, significantly smaller than it was in 2004. So in 2004 this family in some way started and worked on how much of this in Slovenia. Whether she acted in any way or not is not essential. But if you're going to take a good look at other results from this survey that was carried out between companies, you'll see that there's still some way that there's a sense that all public officials are corrupt - so I think about it 2% asked in small businesses, in medium-sized companies - 4%, that it's only a few public employees, I think, 40%. But when these people have been asked whether they know it from their own experience or know it from the storytelling or the media, it is evident that from their own experience very, very little. That most of the cases are from storytelling or from the media. But anyway. This study speaks in particular of the awareness that corruption exists in Slovenia and that, of course, it is certainly one of the more important tasks or a much more important task than to guess that these matters are being prevented. However, they are best prevented in an independent manner, independent of all branches of government, by an independent commission. That's how it's turned out so far. Everything else was actually worse. The commission that existed in Parliament was obviously not only toothless, but also lame and also hairless tiger. So it was nothing from her. Later, of course, the so-called Kosovo Commission made a greater effort, although, of course, it was constantly being flung under its feet. I remember very well, two, three months after its operation, it has been clear that in the last five years, she has done nothing, which is of course complete stupidity, she is not yet five years old today. This proposal for a law on integrity in the public sector, I think it is good to support it because it brings a number of solutions. However, of course, I am still sure that in the debate, it is said that there are many improvements to the second reading, not only to reduce in some way the phenomena from which nepotism, customerism, corruption, but also to those in which we can talk about blackmail, when those who are supposed to be corrupt receive nothing, but he is promised that nothing will happen to him if he obeys. We have cases like this. I recommend to colleagues from all parties, obviously because we are all concerned about corruption, that we support it and, of course, then we move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitri Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In its closing statement, the applicant said that the law in question represented the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. I'm saying it's not like that. The law under consideration does not constitute the implementation of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The implementation of the Constitutional Court decision is a proposal which will follow the instructions of the Constitutional Court and will perform or amend the Act on the irreconcilability of functions as stated or ordered by the Constitutional Court. This does not mean that it is not possible to consider and adopt a completely new law, even as the group of applicants has put into the procedure, but this does not mean that it is a matter of implementing a decision of the Constitutional Court, that is something else. This National Assembly, as I said before, has passed the Act on Incompatibilities of Functions. It is perfectly logical and natural for this National Assembly to try to bring this law to an end and to adopt it as it was, by also incorporating those amendments and corrections as ordered by the Constitutional Court in its decision. It is possible that he will renounce it and that he will go into the treatment and adoption of a completely new law. That's possible. But that's not the realisation of the Constitutional Court's decision. However, the implementation of this Decision is that the law adopted by this National Assembly is also to be completed. And I don't understand why some of you can't accept doing what the Constitutional Court ordered. Why take a different course at all costs, which is otherwise possible? But the National Assembly, when it adopted this law, adopted this law and now let us finish this as necessary. But when we speak of the so-glorified independence of the anti-corruption commission, we have heard many times today. In a law that will soon enter into a procedure that will then also give effect to what the Constitutional Court has imposed, the Court of Auditors will replace the Anti-Corruption Commission. Why do you think that the Court of Auditors is not an independent body and the Court of Auditors will not be able to carry out effectively, professionally, independently and independently what some claim is that only the anti-corruption commission acts as the most independent and independent body? Do you doubt that the Court of Auditors is such an organ: independent, independent and professional? I'd argue otherwise. It is more likely that the Court of Auditors will deal more professionally with and solve cases that will be the subject of competence for those cases that have been dealt with by the Anti-Corruption Commission so far. In my firm opinion, the Court of Auditors is also a more independent and independent body. Why do you object? I would therefore like to reiterate that we should put an end to the procedure in the National Assembly by completing the Act on the Incompatibilities of Functions and correcting it in the part where it needs to be corrected and amended, as laid down by the Constitutional Court. And this law, which is under consideration today, we find that it is not in my power to finish that, and until then this law is not suitable for further consideration at the National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I must say that from the five vascular representatives of the coalition explain how this law should be repealed and how it is necessary to adopt a law that is currently on the website, but which has the views of the Law and Law Service itself clearly stated, has a number of observations, both as to what the role of the Constitutional Court in controlling the assets of officials should be, as of course, as regards the role of the Court of Auditors. An interesting response from the Ministry of Public Administration. The Ministry says in a way that, from the perspective of the Legislative and Legal Service, there is disputed control over the private sphere of individuals. "We are getting together," the Ministry of Public Administration says, "that the solution to this task is carried out by the Court of Auditors, is not systematic, but we see no reason for such regulation" not to apply and so on. [[...]] Gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the ruling coalition! The Anti-Corruption Commission is a commission that we know in the Anglo-Saxon world, where the very important question is whether there is a team on the anti-corruption commission that is able to form the right form and control this form. And here's the problem. All the activities of the various if you want, especially the parliamentary supervisory bodies, have not played their part. Therefore, in a number of countries they have offices, commissions dealing with them. And, Members, why is this disputed for you? Why is it disputed for Members of the ruling coalition, with the exception of DeSUS, that someone will look at the form he designed and monitor it properly? Why is it disputed for you to register lobbyists? At least we'd know that Patria Rotis was some kind of lobbyist for business. But not only through documents that are all marked by internal, confidential, we find, yes, it seems that there were some lobbyists who were at meetings with different presidents and so on. Finally, what has been said about our fellow Member, Rupar. If it turns out that one of the other officials has acquired property rights or property rights, and this has not been reported to the anti-corruption commission, I will expect him to do the same as my colleague Rupar did. We agree here. I believe, however, that his current successor, the Mayor of the Municipality of Tržišč, Mr Saiovic, has a number of problems with cleaning and taking back obligations. If we adopt the Public Sector Integrity Act, if we are aware of the fact that lobbyists are that the potential impact on the irrational, untransparent use of public money by people with leverage of power exists if we need the following 99 and, hopefully, a few more 50, 100 opinions per year, and if these principled opinions have sent officials what they should not do, then I believe that corruption will be reduced in Slovenia. By the time the Government writes, "Well, yes, this should be done by the Court of Auditors," which is not unqualified, which does not have the relevant constitutional powers, it is possible only two - whether the Court of Auditors will now cease to exercise control over more than 3,000 persons of public law using public money and will deal with 5,000 officials. The anti-corruption commission now deals with 5,000 officials. And these 5,000 officials are so heavily lobbyistly organised that they first, by means of the opposition under B, annulled this commission, and now, with the help of the ruling coalition, minus DeSUS, wants to reject a good law and put into practice a law that neither the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia thinks is appropriate. This is a situation, but of course, as Mr. Kovacic said [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Our state's attorneys will find out whether something's wrong or not. [[...]] If not, we will, of course, set up a commission to verify their functioning in the next term. I think the law is good, but of course you're afraid to start implementing it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you very much. A representative of the government also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption was mentioned. I would like to make it clear to you now that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Administration, has prepared a proposal for a law on the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. This proposal for a law will be sent in accordance with the Government's Rules of Procedure for Inter-Resort and Coordination and the Government's admission in the coming days or the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Please, what do you want? [[...]] [[Advertising in the background, miscommunication]] Sign-up As a proposalant, please, five minutes. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač is talking about the fact that it is not right for us to share in yours and ours in this marriage. I wish it were true. Only the arguments he makes against this division are unrealistic. He's talking about each other's marriages treating the same officials and listing them. Yes, including the President of the Court of Auditors, including the Constitutional Judges. That's all he's saying. But about what content? You are in favour of a law in which the content of control over these officials of all - ours and yours - would address only the acceptance of gifts, the incompatibilities of performing a public function with profitable activity and the application of property. Everything else that is supposed to represent potentially corrupt acts whose definition is enshrined in Article 2 of our bill, which is not for yours, because you do not support such a law. The Act on Incompatibilities in the performance of a public function does not deal with corrupt practices, does not have a special commission, does not give it special powers, does not deal with the protection of voluntary applicants, does not address lobbying and so on. It's just those things that we have 15 years without all the effects sorted out. And please let us be aware of this, because everything else is not true. However, the definition of one or the other solution is possible. Just be honest and tell me that there is a Commission that will have 10, 15 powers in Article 11, including giving general opinions that will have the opportunity to report to the public authorities, but that the public authorities will continue to act or not, because the prosecution can accept or reject the complaint, of course, that is its competence, only the anti-corruption commission must do so if we have it, or there is no one who would do so, except the regular police authorities that do a lot of things, thank God, not so much because they are not specialised for it. And second of all, what Mr. Kovacich says. Mr Kovacič, the essence of the Constitutional Court's decision is to repeal certain provisions. The essence of the objective pursued by the Constitutional Court is that non-constitutional provisions are no longer in law. I guess we both agree. The methods of how to do this are, or through narrower, the execution of only one, two or three articles of the law - Mr Žnidaršič told you a little earlier how many times you find that, when the law is opened, there is something more to be done than the decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm in college, my colleague Tanko will know this, objecting to a reduced procedure for hunting law precisely because I said that the Constitutional Court had annulled three articles of hunting law and you were modifying 15 or 30. Why? And that's constitutionally possible. And Mr Kovačič will probably not object when I say that it is not correct and that this does not mean that the Constitutional Court's decision is enforced, because this time it is substantively appropriate for him. Therefore, to object that, in addition to a solution opposed to the Constitutional Court, we are dealing with other matters, probably not justified. And now there's one more thing where it's incorrect. You are talking about this because now, according to the new Court of Auditors, as a fully independent and impartial high-level body, it will identify certain things. Indeed, they will be identified, just look at what, they will identify only the issue of the gift, the issue of the declaration of property and something else, not corruption again. And that's what you don't agree to. This is corruption, and when a special body decides to do so, the law is bad for you. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the context of the half-hour vote, that is, at 18.15. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 18.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u176	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We are moving on to a recessed 29th item on the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a candidate for a Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar is Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. We're voting. [[Let's hear it.]] I note that 70 Members and Members voted for 48 votes to 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I find that Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar is appointed Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. I congratulate the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on her appointment and wish her to perform her duties successfully! Congratulations! I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. I thank, fellow Members and Members, also for our cooperation not only to my New Slovenia Group, but to all of you with whom we have participated in these three years. And I hope that we will continue to work together on the common ground. Thank you very much! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u178	Since Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar was appointed Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, she is temporarily unable to perform her parliamentary function. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate will replace that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Public Integrity. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on integrity in the public sector, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. I can see the hand. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mr. Aurelio Yuri. [[No, he's canceling.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I propose to colleagues and colleagues that, in the first reading, like the Slovenian National Party, which will support the proposal of the law, you should also support this proposal. It is still time to form precisely, to make it clear to all of us what is right and what is wrong. And later on in the second reading, we can make a lot more. Colleagues and colleagues, if you really care about honesty, honesty, anti-corruption, and I will not mention all these principles yet, I expect that, at this stage of the adoption of the law, the National Assembly will express its will to really fight corruption with an independent commission, as required by the OECD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to do it on their own? Check-in is on. Mr. Aleš Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u181	Respected and esteemed! I will certainly support the bill's proposal because it brings solutions that will certainly effectively restrict corruption situations, situations where nepotism could arise, in which we can also prevent clientelistic initiatives at different levels. The bill is also good because it makes it very clear that professional officials have a very, very limited possibility of a second job and an unprofessional very, very limited ban on another job. This is a matter that has actually sparked quite a few unnecessary disputes in this National Assembly. Now things are clear. At the same time, this law also brings solutions that have proved to be, or solutions to problems that have also emerged in this year's election campaign, it is said that much more clearly determines the conduct at this time and at the time before the formal election campaign and, of course, regulates those matters relating to lobbying, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which, in fact, was now completely open. [[...]] I think that the law is suitable for first reading and, of course, because of the will of all Members to step on corruption, I think it is necessary to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I will, of course, vote for this law to go to a second reading and later to a third reading and to be adopted. Not only because it significantly improves the currently active, at least in most of the texts in force, the Anti-Corruption Act, but also because I have heard from at least two Slovenian Democratic Party Members today that tackling the problem of preventing corruption, persecuting corruption in the interest of all of us. So, if it is in the interest of all of us, then it would be useful to confirm this law in the first reading as a suitable basis for further consideration and that together, because it is in the interest of all of us politicians, state officials, municipal officials, municipal and state officials who can influence decisions that could have a corrupt character, so if it is in the interest of all of us, then it would be good that this law, which is certainly significantly better than the law that is gradually coming into the National Assembly, is reviewed, processed together and regulated in such a way that it will actually be in favour of our country Slovenia and Slovenia and Slovenia and Slovenia, or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] citizens and citizens. [[...]] So much for why I will vote in favour of the law or against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. And there's something else I don't forget. And when I said "and they're what" Mr. Secretary of State, I said not because I don't think it's necessary to discuss the results of various research in different institutions, international, national [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and so on, but mainly because of the fact that we have been subjected to this last survey to two countries which are members of the European Union, but which are not exactly famous after unscrupulous public life. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The word here, Mr. Pukšič, what do you want? [[...]] Let's go in one order at a time. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since my decision will be different from that announced in the agreement of the Group of Members, it is only right that I should explain my vote. I do not burden myself with who is the proposer or who has prepared the law. Nor do I burden myself with who likes the independent commission or its president and who doesn't. I'm not burdening myself. However, when I have delved into the content of this bill and in parallel with what the international convention says in this area, I firmly believe that the bill is a good one. In addition, I was convinced after meeting the material prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration. I don't care at all about supporting solutions to the issue that we're dealing with here, the mayors literally or better, with the mayors, there's going to be another municipal council. Far from it. The proposal for this law is relatively neutral in order to be operational even when there will be a different situation when the current administrator of this country is in a different position when he thinks otherwise. Today, too, I would expect those who, in 2003, and even more in 2004, would sail on the wings of the fight against corruption, thus unanimously supporting the law. I am firmly convinced that if we want to do more in this area of prevention when we say that corruption is a state flaw or a system's weakness, then let us uphold the law. Therefore, I will support the proposal for a positive decision with all responsibility, as well as with a view to maintaining a little of my own dignity. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Puksich, please. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. It would not be possible for those who do not support this bill to avoid corruption and customerism. On the contrary. In this House we have passed a law on the incompatibilities of the performance of public office, the Constitutional Court has ordered the National Assembly to amend part of this law, and this is also in preparation. I would like to recall, however, that I find it difficult to believe only in the good purpose of this proposal of the law on the integrity of the public sector by the opposition, because, at some other time, in 1994, when it was a ruling coalition, and even though it had before it a report from the police, the prosecution, and even more, the court's decision, but it did change the penal code and the criminal procedure law, so some of those who committed crimes were even sentenced to prison for such a change and for such a transfer - and some of the Members who are sitting in this Chamber today - and today these people have gone to prison without a minute because the legislation has changed right here in Parliament. More than that, then or a few years later, you even prevented treatment. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the work of the Commission of Inquiry in Parliament. And it's called customerism and corruption. Of course, in a specific way. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 36. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of mags. Majde Potrat on mitigation measures and the consequences of inflation. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mate Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Mr Mate Lahovnik on logistics holding." We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by the Member of the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Janez Janša to the question of Mr. Victory Jelinčič Trimenite on the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 48. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I find that this decision is not adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We move on to the 14th A-point of the agenda - this is to the defence of the amendment of the law on amendments to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Last week in Lisbon, the European Commission published the results of eGovernment developments this year. According to recent research by an independent organisation, Slovenia is ranked second in Europe after the development of public sector services, as regards eGovernment. One key element for achieving this goal was, of course, our VEM project, everything in one place, in the registration of independent entrepreneurs. Of course, the government has also prepared an upgrade to this project, so we are going to phase two when we allow the same procedure and the same registration for other forms of companies. However, as one of the key challenges during the Slovenian Presidency is also to show progress in the area of interoperability, i.e. the connectivity of different systems within the European Union, we will try to upgrade this system in order to allow companies to register also foreigners, it is said through websites from abroad also in Slovenia. That is why we need a few more months to test the solutions already prepared and the proposal for amendments goes in this direction in order to extend the date of entry into force of the amendments to the Judicial Register Act with effect from 1 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. I ask Vice-President Srečk Hvauc to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 41st urgent meeting, on 27.9.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Register of Justice submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration under urgent procedure. At its meeting on 21.9.2007, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The representative of the proposer explained that the draft law proposes to move the deadline for the amendment to 1 February 2008, and explained the reasons for that. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that that service had no comments to the draft law. The members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. No amendments were tabled to the bill and the Committee adopted all the articles of the bill below. As amendments, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the Council of the State have not been adopted in the second reading of the Act on Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice, the urgent procedure is to be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u193	The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Register Act prolongs the application of the new rules of the Judicial Register Act with regard to the inclusion of the Court Registry in the Register for 3 months. In order to ensure appropriate conditions for electronic submission, the application for registration and electronic management of documents shall be moved from 1 November 2007 to 1 February 2008. Until all information conditions are provided for the new way the courts and the JAPES operate, it is not possible to conduct procedures under the new rules. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič, on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. The transitional provisions of the Amendment of the Judicial Register Act, which was adopted at the beginning of this year, state that the envisaged solutions, namely the inclusion of a judicial registry in a business register, the provision of conditions for the electronic submission of applications for registration and electronic management of collections of documents, the publication of entries in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, are replaced by the publication of these entries on the Agency’s public websites. These provisions shall apply from 1 November 2007. In the production of computer applications, it has been shown that this deadline for the start of new solutions will have to be moved mainly because, as we have already heard from the outset, the e-VEM project is also being prepared for companies, so far this project has been applied to independent entrepreneurs, and as is planned to involve foreigners in this system, it is right that both projects are being implemented simultaneously and it is therefore proposed to launch new solutions on 1 February 2008. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find and believe that this shift is justified, so we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč is also on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I refer to my debate, which I had when amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance, who still remembers right, who doesn't, can read it, but would be unfair to himself if he told it again. The law therefore proposes to extend the period of validity of amendments and additions. The law was adopted in April, scheduled for 1 November 2007, and is now proposing 1 February 2008. Let me just say this mathematically for a second. In April, when the law was proposed and adopted, the government proposed seven months to enter into force, now proposing 10 months, and was wrong only by almost 43%. This is precisely the case, and these are the reasons why our Group of Members will not take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-01-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Since no amendment has been adopted by the home labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a legislative decision on the proposal. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would like to read you a note and a proposal concerning tomorrow's agenda. Due to the official absence of Minister of the Interior Dragutin Matea and the overlap of tomorrow's 139th regular meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular with the deadline for the scheduled examination of the Law on International Protection, we propose that the National Assembly amend the agenda for tomorrow's session to postpone consideration of the Act to 9 a.m. in the morning. Secretary General Mag. Oh, my God. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary to vote on this proposal for a decision. In doing so, I remind you that the proposal for a decision will not be adopted if one third of the Members oppose it. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby adjourn the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed at 9 a.m. tomorrow. Good night.
