ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Marko Pavliha, Bogdan Barovic and Samo Bevk from 3 p.m. on. We continue on the 1st item of the agenda - discussion on individual parts of the 2008 Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia, with a specific part of the draft amending budget. Yesterday, at the conclusion of the meeting, we remained in the discussion on the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of the state roads of the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which is why we continue to do so. Perhaps to this point, to these two amendments to the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads, who wants to discuss? Check-in is on. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know exactly whether or not I understood you exactly whether this is the debate on all these 54 amendments that have been tabled. It's probably, isn't it? Since I have tabled four amendments to this sub-chapter, I regret to find that neither the committee has supported them, but, of course, the government has not supported them, and I am somewhat familiar with fate in this House. I also agree with the assessment made yesterday at the conclusion of the meeting by Mr Weber that it is highly dependent on how the Government favours a certain space, especially whether or not coalition Members come from there. The four amendments I have tabled, which I urge my colleagues and colleagues to support, solve the pressing issue in which the environment I come from. Let me say that, in some foreseeable future, we have the opportunity to connect our space to the highway in a way that will put a fast road into space. This, of course, still means the problems we face today, namely, the transport of the current roads, the safety of the current roads and the regulation of the current roads. I have talked about this several times in this National Assembly, and I will take this opportunity to draw attention to the need to rebuild roads or to modernize roads even at a time when we are planning or preparing for the so-called third development axis. The road connecting the highway cross across the Shaleska Valley to Koroška, which is in a markedly poor condition with regard to transport, with regard to traffic safety itself, several interventions have been carried out in the past on this road. But there are problems and we face them again and again when there is a danger of flooding in Slovenia, then we are usually cut off from the world in our valley. My proposal for this amendment is that at the intersection of this road, where the flood threat is the greatest, something should be done for it. Maybe there'll be enough levees to raise the road level to prevent flooding. The government says it's impossible because there are no projects. It is interesting, then, that in one amendment, with which I wish to make my wishes come true or to contribute to the realization of the wishes of the countrymen and the country girl of Sheleka after the pedestrian crossing on the state road. There, however, the government says it is feasible, but it is not possible, because we are interfering with another budgetary consumer. Otherwise, I cannot imagine how we can prepare amendments or changes to the budget without interfering with other budgetary users. And two other amendments are tied to two roads in the Shaleska Valley, so one that connects Velenje to Polzel and to the highway cross, it is destroyed, dangerous and would need to be repaired, and the road which then somehow connects Koroška, the Shaleška Valley via Škal, Plešivec, the Grass Mountains, which also needs to be rebuilt. So these are the four amendments that have been tabled by me. I therefore expect you to reconsider whether it may be worthwhile to devote money to a place where there are no coalition MPs, where there are no coalition mayors and perhaps listen to any of the opposition amendments. Although I fear that my wishes or hopes are too optimistic, once again this has happened in this National Assembly, that is, in the first year of this mandate, when an amendment was adopted, on the basis of which we could then do certain interventions on the Arja vas-Velje road. Whether they have been done well or not, I leave to the judgement of users and, of course, those who are experts in this area, that much more needs to be done, and we all probably agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u4	Respectable present. I would like to present a few amendments, i.e. amendments tabled, by the National Party, in particular as regards the Municipality of Maribor, the Municipality of Starša and the Municipality of Miklavž in Dravska Polje. Allow me to ask you a question to the Minister of Finance: What are the criteria that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is pursuing or using in the selection of individual amendments? Yesterday, my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, spoke of never taking account of the actual need on the ground or of individual local communities when we have the area of infrastructure, but that we always and again take into account party affiliation, i.e. the so-called ruling Members or opposition Members. From this title, I will try to convince you, honourable Members and Members, once again of the urgency of the amendments we are making. For the first time, we are talking about an amendment linking the city municipality center Maribor or the city quarter Melje with Maleknik. The fact is that the Municipality of Maribor as well as the Municipality of Ljubljana is suffocating in traffic. The adoption of this amendment, which provides financial means for the reconstruction of roads for which all plans and plans have been made, would strongly avoid the day-to-day transition, or much easier to accomplish the task that citizens expect of us. I believe that anyone among you has had the opportunity to take the road mentioned above knows that I am talking about a matter that is urgently needed this year or state intervention for 2008. From this address, I ask you for your support. Once again, it is a road that will allow migration day movements from the city centre to the other ends of Maribor. Furthermore, the price for this intervention would be 100 000 euros from the Municipality of Maribor, according to the calculations of experts for this purpose. This is about as much as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is committed to international tractor competition in the coming year. From this title, I ask you about the purpose of the international tractor competition or the need to ensure the implementation and life of one of the most vital road links in this area in the second largest Slovenian city, namely the Municipality of Maribor. I would also like to speak further about the amendment to the Congregation of the Elders, where the 8.5 - mile [8.5 km] road lane would be restored, mainly for safety purposes. All those who know the location of the municipality - located near the Municipality of Maribor - you know that it is one of the more dangerous roads within our country. It would therefore be appropriate for you to come to the aid of this part of our country from this title and, in particular, from the security actors in the transport sector. I would also like to talk about a proposal for amendments that touch the Municipality of Miklavž in the Drava field, for the implementation of the cycling route between Maribor and Ptvo. I believe that all Members also know the problem of this road, i.e. that road which is almost impossible to cross not only during the summer months but throughout the season. Given that this is a rather neglected part of Slovenia, as regards logistics infrastructure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and given that documentation has already been made everywhere, I ask for your support. I do not require that you, within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, refuse to submit to the international tractor competition, if you are pleased, we will not oppose this. However, we only want to highlight the priorities of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that exebitionism in terms of imagery on tractors compared to the safety of road users - and in particular assistance in facilitating the day-to-day migration of people within the Municipality of Maribor - must not be comparable. From this address, Members and Members, this time to you, given that the Government has already negatively identified itself to the Municipality of Maribor, when the Government has already negatively identified itself to the Municipality of the Parents, and that the Government has already negatively identified itself to the Municipality of Miklavž in the Drava Field, to at least show up and realize the environment you come from, and that you are actually elected by the people. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, hand to heart, I have been very disappointed that she has not found such obedience. But the fact is that this disappointment is already quite a constant in the behaviour or perception of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe from this city that there are many Members, both in opposition and in ruling species, who are very well aware of the problems of the sites I have listed. That is why I ask you, at least you, fellow Members coming from Stajerska, not least today we have a colleague Pukšič, my colleague Pojbič, to give your support within your fellow Members, given that I know that you know what roads I am talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads? Yeah. Check-in is on. Please. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. I'm calling in to prevent the public from being misled. The coalition MPs are talking about what fate the amendments have received. It is normal, however, because the coalition in the Committee on Finance has a majority and it is clear that the opposition amendments cannot receive support, and that all those who table amendments are not members of the Committee on Finance. However, I would like to express my support for both the amendments tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Peče or by my fellow Member, Milan Petek, and I will speak in favour of the amendment tabled by Slavko Gaber and on the road Crnolica-Slivnica. I would like to know why neither Mr Jazbec nor Mr Drofenik of the coalition are in favour of reconstructing certain dangerous sections of roads in these areas in Koziansk, where there is something to be done in the spirit of safe transport and safe school roads. Some reconstructions have been done, but the quality of the work done and the prudence would also deserve a special debate. I don't understand why we don't do some things the way we say them at the principle level. On the road I'm talking about, in normal weather, you can't meet two vehicles without taking one to a bank, which is only in bad weather. On behalf of road safety, I expect this amendment to be Slavka Gabra [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please. Sorry, time's up. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have also tried to improve the situation with the budget in some areas, but I will start by saying that the previous Minister of Transport has repeatedly stressed that about 50% of the roads in Slovenia are non-transportable, although I do not believe this information, but apparently he had such a callers at the Ministry, because in this case half of the Members were absent many times, given that probably no pedestrian comes to Ljubljana, but nevertheless. Many sections are extremely long - term, and I myself have taken a long time ago to begin with ideas studies in the direction or at the ministry, or the reconstruction project of the road from Light to Logar Valley, which would probably fall under the fact that it is almost untransportable and is also quite often when nature or some smaller atmosphere makes its own, perhaps even bigger. Therefore, it seems to me extraordinary in this review of the amendments that it is still necessary for this section to also - that is, those who know the area, the road is reconstructed to the Light, missing the shell bypass. My colleague Zamernik also advocates that the Lights themselves get orderly traffic through this place - I think it has been declared the most beautiful and most orderly village in Slovenia, and I think that there was such a category - forward to the Logar Valley, those who go to this place, I think that this is one of the most beautiful parts of Slovenia, but the situation is truly catastrophic. Therefore, if this assembly confirms this amendment, which also helps the Logar Valley or the whole region of Solčavska, I will be very happy and it will be very useful for tourism, even for the existence of this life in this part of Slovenia. There is something else that I would like to point to, perhaps as my colleague Kontič spoke earlier about the third developmental axis, which I am concerned about. And the third development axis of me after the responses, you might not say that it doesn't belong here - I don't know how much time I have - but there I worry about the response of literally all the people in these areas. I don't know if the municipal structures, the mayors and so on have done their job or the state hasn't done enough of its work, at least so far, but the responses are completely negative, from the first meter to the last meter, and we're going from either side. Even I would say in some areas where planners spent the most time, I'm sure, coordinating with the local community, and when they literally hid the road from the eyes, the noise and, above all, even there and literally nothing hurt, even there they are against. I do not understand this and I hope that in order to solve the problem of Velenje or this industrial pool Velenje, the Silesian Valley with the highway to get rid of it, of course, is the only option of fast road, or so thorough reconstruction of all these roads to Koroška and also to the Upper Savinja Valley, to Mozir from Šentrupert, that it will be possible to build a fast road to move somewhere to the future. Under a thorough reconstruction, of course, I mean really thoroughly, that it will be able to take on such a traffic that is and that is growing substantially. I'm really worried about that. And what some rehabilitation of individual sections, even a lot of work is done, is full of construction sites on the section of Velenje-Arje village, I agree that probably not enough - not too much - to solve this serious problem. But as we say, I think that the local communities should do more in this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Cyril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Greetings to the Minister and the Minister with his co-worker! Yesterday was a surprise about the walls of the Clue. First of all, I would like to say that the walls of the Clue are located between the Bovec and the Predepartment and that more and more important wars have been going through this area and that there is also a fortress in the Clue and that these walls are necessary repairs. I would like to say, however, that there are several other amendments that I hope will be accepted for the Sokka Valley. I would like to say that for the first time in this government, the attitude towards road infrastructure in Posoč is slightly better. So far, little has been invested in the Soča Valley and Soča, not only in the Soča Valley, but also in the valley from Ljubljana through Idria to Soča. That's why I think these investments are necessary. We know we had a program to rebuild Keltika years ago. Unfortunately, this program went mainly to the Church and did not come to the House most of the time. There was no investment under this programme in the Report. Later on, we had an earthquake recovery, and I think that in 2003 or 2004, a special law on the infrastructure reconstruction of Soča was passed, which stipulated that 2 billion tolars would be added to the infrastructure each year. Unfortunately, there was not much of it in all the years, and the result is that roads in Soča are very bad. Those of you who have ever traveled across the Idrian Valley to Tolmin, and also further towards the Bovec, I think you can figure out what the situation is. These inputs are also necessary or necessary from this point of view, if we know that it is from Soča, if we look from Bovec, to the first highway connection in Slovenia almost 100 kilometers. Almost 100 kilometers, if we go to the mountainside, more than 100 kilometers if we go to the Logatec. So I think that these interventions are necessary and very urgent is the early construction of the 4th development axis, because this is the fundamental intervention that we expect in the Soča, and this is the only way that the Soča will somehow get a little closer to the centre of the state of Ljubljana. I will support all these amendments because I think this is the minimum that is necessary at this point in time to submit itself to the Suča. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, government associates. The budget debate is both a general part and then deals with the amendments one of the priority projects of both the Government and the National Assembly, and so it has been and will be at national and local level. I fully understand because I myself have been in a position several times over the amendments to want some road, some means for school, a cultural hall or anything else to bring into the environment from which you come, that it is also an instrument of Members and an instrument of the opposition. But this time it was a little different. Members of the coalition have not only looked at the environment from which we come, and we are aware that we will be leading the government for several more years, so it is necessary to take care of the whole development and the breadth of our country. One such important argument, because few words are just words, are actions, is certainly the preparation of regional legislation. And, dear colleagues, if anyone or those who oppose it would, of course, be able to solve a number of problems at regional level, because this National Assembly has already decided and entrusted the Government with the task, but the government has carried out the task of drafting legislation on regionalisation, which means that 1.2 billion euros has been transferred to a different level of local self-government. Well, and I'm not just going to be about this, even specifically, how in the coalition we were aware of the importance of overall coherent regional development, really for the whole country. However, believe me, in the last two years, what has not been done in the last 60, 70 years cannot be fixed; even in the last 12 years, there has been a substantial, substantial underdevelopment in regionalisation, in harmonious development. Well, since I was mentioned in the debate by one of my fellow Members and invited me, give your vote for it - of course, but within the scope of the possibility. Nevertheless, our Government, together with the members of the coalition, has prepared amendments or not only amendments, and has already put them on the ground in the 2008 and 2009 amendment agenda, which was a road talk. For example, for the Proletarian Brigade-Limbuška Road, which was not even in the 2008 and 2009 budget, we now have it in the following budgets, as well as in the 2009 updated draft budget and the development investment proposal, with more than €5 million. Then Brestrnica-Jurij, also in Maribor, is in the 2009 budget and then in the development programmes ahead. Then under Malek, the bridge across the channel of Medieval Drava 1, which is also what wasn't before. I can also say that we have a bridge across the canal, Central Drava 1 in Zlatolič, which is over EUR 2 million planned for this area. In short, we were aware, we were aware, and we want to develop this country as closely as possible. But that there's a lot to do, that there's a lot to do, and that's what we're aware of.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I see you want to discuss this further, so I'm opening applications. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u14	Allow me those 20 seconds. Of course, I am very pleased with what my colleague Pukšič said, ladies and gentlemen, but these are the amendments of the National Party, if we looked at them, we would see them. However, I would like to highlight one point. The time shift from plan to implementation is exceptional, so once again I ask for your support [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the amendments mentioned. [[...]] I'm not looking for any arguments, I'm only looking for support for the Municipality of Maribor, Starša and Miklavž in the Dravsko Field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I'd like to touch a little bit on the budget itself. The fact is that the Social Democrats do not support the draft budget for 2008 or 2009. You're proposing a withdrawal. At the same time, you have tabled amendments to this budget and you want support for them, but in the final vote it will happen again that you will not support the budget. This is about some horrible, controversial, unserious behavior. With regard to the relationship between the coalition and the areas of Slovenia, I must say here that we have a slightly better attitude towards those or much better than those who are far less represented and overlooked in the current budget. We have a highway cross on one side, a highway program that takes place through the programme at an accelerated rate. On the other hand, we have a whole bunch of areas to open up with so-called developmental eights, but the fact is that so far there has been relatively little done in this work, and within the coalition we are also proposing to improve a lot in this area. Now, if I were to sum up all those amendments that you have tabled and the source from which you are taking them, then I can find that in this country, I would not remain with the Ministry of Defence or the army of honor. This should also be done in the case of amendments, in the case of the source you are taking, with a little caution and not in this part nor in coordination within the opposition, nor within the proposers, individual applicants or groups of Members. In this case, too, it is necessary to have some relationship or proportionality and also to ensure reallocations in such a way that a budgetary user does not fully compromise, as is the case with the amendments that have been tabled. It is true that this coalition has also paid much more attention to those areas covered by other laws, such as the Court, which has so far been covered only by a declaration, that is to say by some principled act, with several million euros per year, and no concrete projects to solve the problem of the Court. This coalition is, in fact, the first to take seriously the management and opening of problems that accompany the Soča as one of the regions that is significantly away from the centres, from Ljubljana and from Gorica and from anywhere. The short approach is also detectable in this amendment work. The same has always been true of some other areas, such as the Logar Valley, the Meží Valley, or Koroška. The first serious concrete amendments to the regulation or opening of all areas come in this budget and through amendments tabled by the coalition. Unfortunately, this and very similar approach to certain areas is also a project and a green border. Unfortunately, a programme for the implementation of measures at the green border was adopted in the preceding term, but only in principle, almost without funds. And at the beginning of this mandate, this Government has already taken serious concrete steps to regulate transport matters along the green border. And it goes on. In short, far from being absolutely committed to any amendments or amendments or amendments in the coalition, I would like to remind you in this regard that overall development is not only carried out where there are large numbers of Members, it is usually from city centres, city centres, but that there is also a lot to be done in particular for areas to which we look only when we accept something declarative when it is necessary to do anything concrete, and we do not bring it into the budgets. It also shows caution in these amendments because, as I mentioned earlier, it is necessary to take care of some proportions so that due to some of the late issues that are being announced and which have been obsolete and are outdated, they have not been carried out for 10 years or more so that, due to some other needs, especially the media needs, we do not undermine or reject the budget user in its development, especially in those parts where you have even signed an agreement on the provision of the level of funds for certain purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogomir Zamernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Nice hello to you all! For eight years I have been in opposition in the past two mandates and, of course, it was not clear to me how, for God's sake, no amendment of mine, despite the fact that the situation on the road was in fact as described earlier by my colleague Preseknik. Why, for God's sake, did she never listen to my position at the time? And then I said to myself, "When I'm in their shoes, I'll do something different." [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Well, here we go, buddy Anderlich. How's it going? It's not like the officials at the Ministry of Transport told me when I was at a meeting about two years ago: "Yes, this is where Anderlich came in and said this is, and the other one won't." It's not like that right now, luckily. And that's why I was two years ago. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm not going to discuss this with my colleague Anderlich. You have a chance to get up and say what you have to say. But that's a fact. I'll bring you this clerk who told me, but let's leave it. That's when I told myself I wouldn't be like them. Because if not, we didn't do anything. There's no difference. They're for their own, and we're for our own. Have we taken any steps forward? We didn't. That is why I supported my colleague Kontic's amendment with great joy last year or two years ago when we adopted the two-year budget. Do you agree? The independent work then wrote that the position did not support him at all and I had serious problems and I had to send voting statements to the editors to prove that I finally supported this amendment. This led to a lot of difficulties for the Ministry of Finance, so I learned something from this and we have taken into account in the preparation of this year's budget, as has been said many times before, in the start of the amendments which are also heading towards improving the situation on those roads from which opposition Members come. Because it still seems unacceptable to me that we will regulate the road where the position comes from, and from where the opposition comes, we will not. Don't we work these roads for all our constituents? Now I've heard so much, by the way, about the time I said, "I'm going to be Anderlich." Go ahead! One day this power will probably change, and give me back when you might be back, probably not going to happen -- about what you're throwing in here. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to the development of this country, let us step together and not tell who has ever supported anyone and do something that is good for all people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, the replica. Mr. Anderlich, there's no time for such a conversation. Mr. Christian Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, when we heard a debate on the general part of the 2008 budget changes, some opposition members strongly opposed the government's guidelines or road maintenance items. The story changed overnight, and suddenly we're on the road. How's that? Only night has passed, we already have a different view, but what is absolutely necessary in this Slovenia. Strange transfer so quickly in a short time and yet we know that this increase in means of maintenance, reconstruction of state roads is essential and that it is needed by the whole of Slovenia, and especially by those areas of Slovenian provinces or regions that are neglected and that are plagued by these road links in their economic and other development. And to invest here, now there, also shows a picture of these amendments. All these desires, all of these amendments - simply not going through because so much resources are not available in the budget that all of these amendments, which I think are well-intentioned, positive and want to develop such infrastructure. But this is not going together - yesterday against this, but today we're in favour of amendments to the roads. Let us be so right and responsible, honourable Members and Members, what we are saying yesterday and what we are saying today. That's another thing. When we talk about roads and amendments, of course, honourable fellow Members and mayors of the area from Koroška to Šentrupert, we are talking so much about the third development axis, we are talking so much about this important development project, such as the third development axis, and today I read and hear various statements from local communities, municipal councils and mayors, that you are not for this road. Dear Members of that area and the mayors, roll up your sleeves as soon as possible and find a consensus between local communities that this important Slovenian project will go forward. For those of us who are from Celje to the New City, we look forward to the continuation of this project. Now, somehow, it does not go and does not go, but one congregation, and another congregation, complains that the route is not appropriate, that it is not. Please, but here is also your role as a Member of Parliament, Members and Mayors from those areas to help with this. To do something to achieve consensus, we too will come into the line that we are looking forward to this story and are already preparing local communities to be prepared for this important project, which is as important for Slovenia as the highway cross. That is why I appeal to you above all that this will happen. And not least, when we talk today in the National Assembly about these roads, but maybe it'll be the next story, the provincial one, 2009. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is a great challenge for you to take this matter to the province and decide for yourself the priorities of road maintenance in Slovenia, both in Styria, Primorska, Dolenjska and elsewhere. Perhaps this is an opportunity to consider that there will be no more opposition and position, and we will argue among ourselves about who has more amendments, who has fewer amendments. Let us leave this to those who will certainly know well, economically and rationally where more important road links are, where they have the advantage, where they have less advantages and so on. And Members of the National Assembly will not decide whether it is in Maribor, Prekmur or anywhere more important. Thus are the opportunities before us, let us be patient and reasonable, just to take as much from this budget as it is in it, simply not going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u22	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, President! At this point, there is a debate on individual amendments. We have 54 amendments to this sub-programme, and we have for some time now, Mr President, and you allow it, and I think it is wrong, we are hearing about principle, honesty and similar things. Yeah, that's fair! If we have 50 amendments, half of which are signed by the ruling Members are accepted, half of which are not signed by the ruling Members are not accepted. And then someone comes along and talks about how much honesty there is here and it's just a coincidence that it's completely covered. My procedural proposal, Mr President, is that we stick to the content of the 24 amendments currently under discussion and that any Member who speaks also tells what amendment he is talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I agree. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Honourable ministers, Minister and Minister and other members of the Government. So, I will not say anything new, because so far I have not heard anything new about these amendments in this National Assembly, and even though I am here for a second term, I would ask if Mr Anderlic could warn me that he should go out and talk. Well, that's how we all have to listen to him. In general, with these amendments, I would like to say that the following is a concrete amendment, as explained by Mr Kontic. It is very important where an amendment is proposed. And it is always in the last two, three years that we are faced with trying to redistribute agricultural resources with such amendments, even though we know that Slovenia has adopted part of the common agricultural policy and that our financial budget in the agricultural field is no longer dependent on how much we can devote from our own resources, but that we have to match what the European Union owes us today in this area. And that is why I cannot agree with the fact that it is always trying to take money in the agricultural field. On the other hand, for example, it criticises that inflation has increased. We all know how precisely the area of food stimulation has contributed to the growth of this inflation within the European Union. And if we followed this logic, and Europe, of course, will not follow this logic, then we would have even more turbulence in this area than at this point. The second area that is always tried by the "ad hoc" with written amendments to the money is the Slovenian Army, and I agree with one of the speakers if all of these amendments were accepted, of course they would be out of general staff. I understand that this is what they say in the Slovenian National Party, at least they were against us entering NATO, while the other parties were not against. We voted in the referendum, and we are now also determined how much we need to spend annually on equipping the Slovenian Army, and it is illogical that, in fact, according to some of the Government's assumptions and calculations, Members with amendments would reduce this sum. We are already failing to reach it, although I also agree that we are giving a lot of money for this area. As far as the roads are concerned, I'd say the following. As much as Slovenia is currently investing in the motorway programme, it has never invested. And then, on the one hand, we listen, if, more could come from the budget and, at the same time, now that there is high economic growth, we should create a budget surplus. May I ask you, President, can you please calm Mr. Anderlich down?Oh, my God! On the other hand, we are hearing that we should create budgetary surpluses - yes, I do not know how this is possible, except that this is explained here in Parliament and how the Slovenian public understands this. For the rest of the road area, this rebalancing, if I have just counted, is spending almost €100 million more. If this is not a follow-up to the greatest need in this area, then I really do not know what this Government is supposed to do. But I'm going to say something else that I've said many times. Construction of Slovenian roads, with what we can see being built elsewhere in our vicinity, is too expensive. I know that the finance minister has worked hard on this and is still working, and I hope that will change a little in the future. I'll just give you one case. When they were building a carousel in our town, they were driving a gramoze from Ptuj, and now that they're building a highway or a bypass in Lenart, they're driving a gramoze from Ormož. It's already here, for example, we can save so much. And if we are talking about building a fast road between Slovenska Bistrica, Ptuj and Ormožem, I believe and hope that they will open up the grammar shop in the immediate vicinity of the construction of this road, where it is working on this and where the Ministry of Environment and Space has great influence that it can or will not allow it, or we will face it again, that we will drive 50 kilometers and more on the highway. And as long as I am a Member, I will keep these matters in the public eye. I don't know who that force is in this country that can do this, but as things are now done, it's not good, because if we drive on this route, we do at least three times the damage: for the first time, we destroy the roads we drive on, secondly, we consume a lot of energy, oil and thirdly, we pollute the environment with exhaust gases. I would suggest that when Members table amendments, they think a little bit more about what amendments they are making and where they should reduce their funds. I have not tabled any amendments myself, so I have virtually no ambition not to support or support these amendments. I will conclude with this: Mr Anderlič did nothing but with his thumb in the previous term, but they were all against it, but if he did not know how to do it, his ministers showed him there either up or down. So colleague Anderlich, your discussions and your criticism of this work - you are the last one to criticize this! And I am very glad that you are in opposition today, and I hope that you will still be in opposition for a long time, even if you will learn a little culture, that you will not speak when another Member is performing, and so calls and shouts and makes comments during the speaking of another. Sign up for the word and then you can answer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think there will be any more discussions about this, but if there is, I ask you once again to stick to what we're discussing, because it really doesn't make sense. Mr. Anderlich was not aware of how many times, so we could fight each other. Please, Mr. Anderlich, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u26	I would like to point out procedurally to Mr Sok that it is his right to also point out certain inconsistencies or inaccuracies that have been said in the debate. Certainly not that he exploits this for the purpose of deliberately maligning and spreading lies. Among other things, when it discusses that others are making amendments from the funds provided for the military. Look at those amendments tabled together by all the coalition parliamentary groups, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u28	They come only from the technical equipment of the Slovenian Army and from nowhere else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. The only thing I agree with is that we really need to stick to what we are discussing. Who else wants to discuss this subroutine? Mr. Stan Pike, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I am also sad when I listen and see that, in fact, if all those amendments were to be accepted when they say that money should be taken from the General Staff or from the Army - yes, because the Slovenian Army could be abolished. I am also appalled when money is being taken from the Ministry of Agriculture from those sub-programmes that help rural development. Why? We've committed ourselves to this financial perspective that we're going to do it and that we're going to do it, and if we take it too much there, you can't do it. The funds are coming and, in principle, this needs to be paired with domestic resources. Of course, if the items from one programme are taken to another program, it means that these funds cannot be used. But that is exactly what we have been fighting for, that we will get as much money from Europe as possible and that we will be able to co-finance them. I also think that the municipalities have also received more money to co-finance various development projects, because it has long been known that the local communities can, in principle, be more able to control and manage those projects that are more necessary at that time. And that's why they're more successful in principle, and people can appreciate that. I don't have any amendments tabled myself. I think it's right that these amendments have been invested as little as possible. Why? Because to the Government, this is our Government, if I speak from my perspective, we have to trust and we have to acknowledge the expertise that it can allocate resources in a way that will be roughly the same for all citizens and that the budget is not entirely satisfied and it will never be. Why? Because there's always too little money. However, we are trying to balance this development that we are taking, that everyone gets something, not that some are highly privileged, but that all over Slovenia is trying to balance themselves as much as possible and direct development through the budget so that most people are about as satisfied. That's the point. Of course, I won't support those amendments that take what I'm stealing. But I will be certain that have a good content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that we are still talking about the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. And that the principled debate or debate on this has already been concluded. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Well hailed, distinguished minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will talk about the amendments, in fact about all the amendments, and I would like to say that, given the changes in the budget for 2008 and the three amendments, you know, this cannot be clear, because the project of implementation of what is to be adopted does not begin by confirming this in the proposal in the National Assembly, but the project has already started much earlier, it should at least start, except for those who have proposals there, EUR 20,000 or 50,000 or some overlay. This is another matter, everything else had to be coordinated. It is said, on the one hand, also with the local community, because it is in all of these proposals, or in most of them, the local community co-funds the implementation of these projects, as most of these amendments relate mainly to road regulations in urban settlements. This means that the local community also had to provide certain financial resources. And if this is not harmonised or agreed, then, in fact, certain amendments are certainly inappropriate, because I have to tell you that it happened or happened in the past, that we adopted a certain amendment, then the supplementary budget in the field of the Ministry of Transport, and then in fact the Directorate for Roads could not make this happen, given that the project documentation was not yet available. By also reminding you here that we are all real, and especially those who have tabled amendments, I only hope that this matter is also in line with the deadline for this to be realized. But I would like to say this, given what I have said so far from the point of view of the local community. You know, it's also clear to us that if the mayors aren't active, they don't do theirs, or a certain municipality doesn't have certain funds in its budget, then that's another problem. I come from the Obsotelje and Kozjansko region alone, and I am very glad that there are also some funds for the modernisation of the road in our area. I know that Comrade Drofenik has tabled an amendment here, which also means the reconstruction of a certain section of the road. However, I would like to say that mayors from the area of Obsotela and Kozjanska, possibly the left or right option, are working hard to resolve this unfortunate, catastrophic situation in the road area in the future. And I can only commend them. And nothing helps us to invest here or to try for something. In fact, if we were not active from the point of view of the local community, I have nothing to suggest in the National Assembly for a proposal for a supplement. And I firmly believe that I also want to say this, but when the representatives of the local communities come to the Roads Directorate, given that I have been walking alone for 12 or 13 years, and no one has ever asked me if you are a left or a right option. But that is what I want to say to you, and I find it a bit distasteful that today we are discussing so much and have devoted so much time to who comes from, left or right. I think it is important that we know this too and that we are objective in these matters. I will conclude by saying that I am very pleased that the financial resources for this area have increased in the 2008 budget change, as already mentioned by my colleague Sok, in the amount of around EUR 100 million. But I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance has also agreed to this. You know, it wasn't easy, I'm sure, and probably you, too, to close the budget. And if the pressure on the Minister of Transport has been that certain financial resources will have to be increased in view of all of our problems still affecting us in the field of road infrastructure and given the level of financial resources allocated to the last few years for regulating state roads, we know how many times this has increased that the Minister of Finance has agreed to increase financial resources to this extent in this year as well. Surely we can all thank him for this, for in the past days we have only heard criticism of inflation and many others. So thank you, Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I don't think anyone wants to discuss it anymore, so let's move on. I would like to say that, with regard to the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups which have not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will not discuss these two amendments. In the debate, I am putting two amendments to the sub-programme Improving the state of the environment of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Anybody want a word? I guess not. I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme Planning for Water Protection and Management, the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting into discussion the amendments to the Sub-programme Special Programmes in the event of accidents by the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Space. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. I am putting two amendments to the sub-programme Planning for Water Protection and Water Management into discussion. There's no report. I am putting to the debate the amendment to the sub-programme "Receipts and rights of the unemployed budget user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. There are no reports. I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme to increase employability as well as to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. There are no reports. In the debate, I am making an amendment to the sub-programme to ensure the social inclusion of the same user. There are no reports. In the debate I am putting three amendments to the sub-programme Creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of companies of the same user. There's no reports either. In the debate, I am making an amendment to the Social Protection and Compensation Sub-programme for restructuring the production of the same user. There are no reports. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the Sub-programme Social Protection of Disabled Persons. Same user. There are no reports. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the sub-programme Social Protection of the Old. There are no reports. I am putting into discussion the amendment to the Social Protection Sub-programme of the materially threatened budgetary user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. There's no reports either. In the debate, I am making an amendment to the Sub-programme Editing and Monitoring the Health System. The budget user is the Ministry of Health. There are no reports. I am putting seven amendments to the sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals into discussion. There's no reports either. In the debate, I am making an amendment to the Sub-programme Programmes for the Protection and Strengthening of Health, Reducing Differences in Health and Development Research, which is also a user of the Ministry of Health. There are no reports. In the debate I am making an amendment to the sub-programme Scientific Research, the budgetary user is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. There are no reports. I am putting two amendments to the Higher Education sub-programme into discussion. There are no reports. I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme of the Sport Programme of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Education and Sport. There are no reports. I am putting five amendments to the sub-programme of Primary Education into discussion. Check-in is on. We are talking about the sub-programme Primary Education of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Government, colleagues and colleagues! I will take part in the second amendment to primary school, namely, investment in the second amendment, the Education sub-programme. This amendment is about the construction or renovation of the branch school in the village of Dolenja, Germany. This is in the municipality of Trebnje. It is a branch school that is 100 years old and has been ignored by all governments so far, as has the local community in charge of investment. Because something has also begun to move in the congregation, and parents have been working hard for years to rebuild this school, since this school does not even have basic conditions for teachers and for students who are nine years old. It is about 80 to 100 children who visit a nine - year - old from first to ninth grade. However, it has always proved to be ignorant of wearing clothes to this school when they prefer to close branch schools rather than to invest in these places. I am therefore pleased that the Government supports this amendment, where children will receive at least the basic conditions as well as teachers. Let me tell you, they actually have a room in the hallway where they don't have basic equipment. What they have, they get mostly from private donations. They don't have gyms, libraries, basic conditions, like what halls where parents would meet and so on. They do not have the basic conditions, and I will be happy if this amendment is accepted and we will then go to the construction of this school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There are no other reports. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the Sub-programme Help in Primary Education. [[There are no reports.]] I am putting forward two amendments to the sub-programme Help in Secondary Education. [[There's no reports either.]] I am putting into discussion the amendment to the sub-programme Art Programmes, the user of the Ministry of Culture. Check-in is on. Mrs. Majda Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u36	I must have a very short word. In 2008, the share of funding for culture is decreasing, and in 2009 in general, within GDP. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we have indeed proposed that a certain proportion of the resources available to the Minister for the so-called "Minister's Reserve" which has increased dramatically in recent times be transferred to where it would be more necessary and more effective. In spite of the fact that the Minister, through the amendment of the umbrella law on culture, has increased the possibility to distribute money from his so-called pocket in exceptional circumstances without calls and public calls, it is said that the Minister's reserves, which is defined as money, are fluctuating into those programmes that arise in specific circumstances that were not previously foreseen and so on. These are not natural disasters, but these are cases where there is an action that has not previously been envisaged. But what happened this year and also last year was that this money was passed into very opaque hands, even in a non-transparent way, without the right rules, that some Members - today was one very loud, Mr Pukšič was very loud, and he, for example, received money from this minister's reserve, despite having had money from regular funding. In fact, these funds were shared by a key, which resulted not only in the famous case of the Slovenian Matrix, but also in the magazine Ali, including the film Mokus, in short, in a set of projects that had already been financed from other sources and where it was clear that it was some preferences of the minister or his group or even political options. In this sense, it seems to us that this money is shrinking and that it is increasing where it can go to a public invitation to tender. And he still has enough room for maneuvering because he has some money left for real living needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u37	Thank you very much. There are no other applications. I am putting forward an amendment to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture in the debate. There's no sign-in. I am putting to the debate an amendment to the sub-programme Lover Culture. There's no reports either. I am putting forward an amendment to the Sub-Investment in Culture sub-programme in the debate. There are no reports. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments and the specific part of the 2008 draft amending budget will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Wednesday, 28 November 2007, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the 2008 draft amending budget plan for the development programmes. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. On Wednesday, 28 November, in the framework of the vote, we will decide on the 2008 Draft Budget Development Programme Plan. Before interrupting this agenda item, I ask if anyone else would like a word on the proposal for amending the 2008 budget in its entirety? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. The proposal for amending the 2008 budget will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Wednesday, 28 November, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Proceed with 2. Dotko - Discussion on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 As an individual part, the general part of the supplementary draft budget, the specific part of the supplementary draft budget and the development programme plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the general part of the 2009 supplementary draft budget. Anybody want a word? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The 2009 budget is now under discussion, which is already the first budget for the new mandate, and it is necessary to ask even more seriously about the accuracy of the forecasts prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009. My question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stems from the following, in my view, a mathematically verifiable, wrong conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The budget memorandum of the Republic of Slovenia prepared by the Government also discusses the expected drawdown of funds in 2007-2013 in connection with the so-called next financial perspective. The Republic of Slovenia has agreed that, on average, every year of this 2007-2013 budget period, I am talking about page 9 of the budget memorandum, earning 1.56% of the gross domestic product, which is to say and write on average around EUR 450,480 million. At the same time, we are expected to pay 1.13% of gross domestic product in the European budget, which is about 350 million. The difference is in the normal year, according to data from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, 0.43% of GDP or 120, 130 million euros. It's all right here. So at the annual level, we can get around €480 million. However, the experts involved in this work themselves and, of course, also remind me that they do not understand how this can be done in 2009, i.e. in the year when we will no longer have the remaining resources to be derived from the previous financial perspective, which was concluded in 2006, because the M+2 principle was in force, and, of course, the last project in 2006 ends in line with the M+2 principle in 2008, how can we expect as much as 888 million euros in revenue from the European budget if we can only get EUR 450, 480 million on average in 2009. And the answer is very simple. Because we expect to pay in the European budget 1.1%, 1.2%, which is about as correctly estimated at some 350, 380 million in 2008, and then, it says here 404, you need to explain where the difference of almost 400 million surpluses of revenue you create in 2009, if the average annual surplus can be up to 120, 130 million. The answer is in the palm of your hand. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that in 2009 it will continue to reduce the public financial deficit, but this is only a reduction of the public financial deficit due to the inflatability of the European Union's revenue. And it's not 5 or 10 million. This inflatability is over EUR 400 million. The government said, on average every year, we'll get 450 to 480 million, but don't worry, we'll get 880 million in 2009. I'd ask nicely if the government would explain this very precisely. Let me also say, of course, that the mentoring of the Minister of Finance will be that, as he said, there will be a deficit in 2007 after ESA-1995, if I am not mistaken, 0.57% of gross domestic product, because it is said and written around €180 to 200 million. That's right. But you know, this low surplus foreseen for 2007 is the result of a planned very high surplus from the European Union, say and write after the changes to the budget of EUR 264 million, which is obviously not going to happen. Then, of course, the Minister forgets to add that, according to ESA 95, as we have been told on the Committee, the revenue and expenditure with the European Union are not considered to be due to some internal problems that individual Member States have. It doesn't matter. It is important that in 2007 and 2009 Slovenia will pay into the European budget and that it will not obtain 880 euros from the European budget, but perhaps, if it is successful on average, 450 to 480 million euros, which means that the budget balances, the consolidated balance of public finances and the expenditure presented by the Government are pure fiction. As early as 1 January 2008, we will all be looking at why, according to domestic technology and technology, as prepared in the budget memorandum, the surplus is greater than you think. Why will the surplus be higher than you have estimated, namely EUR 100 million. I am signing now that this surplus will be more than €100 million because you will not receive from the European Union, as you are planning in 2007 471 million, because you have so far absorbed them according to the Ministry of Finance's data of less than €200 million. €199 million in nine months, but you expect 471 million. Please. On 1 January 2008, we will find that, first of all, what you are showing as an assessment of the reality is wrong, that there is a surplus or that the deficit is much higher. That's point one. And in 2009, you prepared a budget that you closed with pure fiction on the European budget, which will require very serious cuts in public spending in 2009, or we will simply have to say that the National Assembly adopted completely fictitious budgets in November 2007, at least at the point envisaged, almost twice as high as the European Union's funds can be drawn. I would ask if the government's representatives would explain this fiction. Especially because they have clearly written down the budget memo, we can get up to 480 million. But for 2009, they said, no, no, no problem, no need to save, we'll get 880 million. I'm asking nicely for explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today, many times we have seen a story with clairvoyants and predictors of our future, which later turns out to be a mere mirage. This sounded very prophetic, as we heard from the predecessor, but unfortunately, or luckily, it has also happened so far, but it has never proved to be true. It's always turned out to be, I'm not going to say, unreal, but after all this, I could say it's not real and it's basically a simple deception and a false impression. In September 2006, we listened very prophetically to the following. I'll read it so someone won't tell me I'm talking. The same Member said very prophetically: "This is about the fact that the government has already taken into account higher VAT in the 2007 budget, about one point." The fact that the government has already taken account. It wasn't even true. We have already found that this is not the case for 2008. And then the question: "So if the minister at the next meeting answers the question: Will this failure simply tax the economy and make an effective decision, I think that the error, 'the economy has increased', 'taxation' should be, 'for more than 100% according to the period of the Ministry of Marble'? Will he, of course, be able to say that he will not raise VAT and that the budget deficit will be only 73 billion?" He's here asking if he'll pick it up. He claimed that this was already taken into account in 2007. And because he later got the answer he went on: "And so he says, Will you therefore have to increase the excise duty? Or will you, as you yourself have said several times, as some here in this National Assembly will find that you will have to go to 21 and 9%?" That was never true, but here it was very prophetic. And if I remember, the economy's tax cuts. It's gotten smaller, not that it's getting bigger. But that was very prophetic of how this would increase. Another way a prophecy turned out to be a fluke or a mere mirage. The question was raised with regard to investments. I think it was still this year, at the beginning of the year we adopted legislation regulating investments. And then it was said by the same Member: "If we adopt this law, then the investments will fall. And you know that investments are the driving force of the economy. It's going to come down." This same Member today begs the Government to reduce investment, however, because otherwise the economy will overheat. Yeah, where's the logic? Let's get back to ourselves a little bit and figure out what we were talking about a year ago, two years ago, and then it turned out exactly the other way around. And today we're talking the other way around. It was exactly the same with pensions. This same Member, with the help of some authorities, has even sent some tables to the ECB and other bodies of Europe as to how our budget will fall due to excessive pensions. You can imagine it's because of the high-end meal that's about pensions!? That's not true. This has also proved to be true in these times. But they keep repeating some stories: it is so, it is certainly so, the government has made a mistake, we want to go against you, and we offer you this solution, that is to say, after all that we quoted you yesterday and even today, if the government only took such proposals into account, today would be in great trouble. And thank God she didn't pay attention! But today they are inventing new options to mislead the public and to pose as great magicians, I don't know, financial policies, fiscal policies, but the government doesn't really know anything. You know, you're gonna have to read a little bit about what you've been saying all this time, which takes this mandate. Everything you said so prophetically turned out to be the other way around. And how am I supposed to believe you today after all this? I can read you another bunch of things because I showed you yesterday that I chose all your questions, nothing else, and this is here for three-quarters of a kilo. And all that was there was completely wrong. Thank God the government didn't go anywhere and take that into account. Then it would be a circus. And I think it's time for us to start taking words like that for real, after all, I can't take them seriously anymore. I do not say that there is no knowledge in the debates, of course the debaters have knowledge, only obviously either turn it around or conclude it completely wrong. So these claims, too, seem completely out of the loop, just one purely ordinary deception. If we hear more of these proposals, I will read some more of these things from these people six months ago, or two years ago. And we've also heard many times here that the government should do something for God's sake. I mentioned the case yesterday, and I'm going to repeat it today because he obviously didn't. We heard at the beginning of 2005 "let the government do something because it is a terrible decline in economic growth". Today we have exactly the opposite when these same Members ask the Government to do something because the economy will overheat because it is too economic growth. Yeah, I don't know what else to say. I think that the argument is more than strong enough that there is no need to comment on it, so I would just like to say how much such prophetic predictions on some sides apply. I'm afraid I can't take them anymore, and I can't take them seriously anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I would have continued where my predecessor ended up. We listened to the last speaker's actual fairy tales, fairy tales, as we know, are stories that happen in an unreal, unreal or fictional world, if you will. And what the Member of the Slovenian Democrats said was actually fairy tales that are repeated year after year. They always happen in an unrealistic world, and it turns out they're fairy tales. Of course, reality is completely different. Yet these fairy tales have some legality. The reality turns out to be the opposite of what the apostle prophetically commands in these fairy tales. Therefore, even this time when the prophecy foretells what will happen, we can conclude that the opposite will happen. In particular, as set out in this budget. I myself have here a magnetogram from some of the debates of this Member. This happened in the course of the 2006 and 2007 budget debate, and I will also quote some of these fairytale predictions: 'One thing is, the first type of problem is that these budgets and adopted acts will greatly increase the country's indebtedness, because the budget does not include covering all the legal obligations, but strengthens the extra-budgetary funding'. As we know, because this was the forecast for 2006, 2007, it happened the other way around. The country's indebtedness has decreased, a budgetary deficit which it also said in this same debate is the first type of problem with Slovenia's indebtedness and the increase of the public financial deficit. The proposed budgets 2006, 2007 make this possible and therefore increase the burden on taxpayers. If we look at the deficit as it was moving, in 2004 it was 2.3, in 2005 it was 1.5, in 2006 it was 1.2, in 2007 0.6. The deficit fell all the time. The MP predicted the exact opposite situation. Then it's the next thing. I quote: "With these budgets, tax laws are increasing the spread of Slovenian society, while budgets do not provide adequate funds for social transfers, nor for an active employment policy, which would prevent the negative effects that are increasingly visible in Slovenia due to the deterioration of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, while taking on the conditions for entry into the euro. That's exactly the opposite of what happened. Unemployment in 2005 was 90,000 unemployed, 2007 70 000 unemployed, again falling. Similarly, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy has increased, which is again the opposite of what this Member has announced. Official data show this very clearly, official data on economic growth. The following issue, I quote: "The budgets have several items with large indices, but this is largely linked to European funds and these resources will not be available in 2006 and 2007." That was a forecast. I am not saying that all the planned funds from this source have been realized, but a large part of these funds have been realised. And again, it didn't happen that there wouldn't be any of those funds. The following issue, I quote: "For 2007 the value added tax will have to be increased, and this means that it will increase at a time when we take over the euro, which will significantly reduce the additional standard of living, at the same time of course we will have an increase in VAT, which will undoubtedly reduce Slovenia's tax competitiveness." Again a forecast that is a perfect shot into the void. VAT has not increased, you probably know this, but in fairy tales it can also increase, but in reality it has not increased. And another quote: "Since we have been in the National Assembly a few weeks ago", this is a quote since the 2006-2007 budget was discussed, "adopted a tax law on income from additional tax relief, the assessment of income from corporate income tax is inflated by at least about 40 billion at the annual level. Together, these two means that the government is creating an additional government deficit, at least at 110 billion tolars, beyond the budget. Therefore, incurring and not covering legal obligations with expenditure is the first feature of this budget." As far as the financial deficit is concerned, I have already said earlier about the tax and inflatability of this item, but let me say that the budget item was foreseen at the time in the tolars, but if I convert it into euro, it is a poor 700 million euros. In fact, 220 or more EUR 942 million were realized. Members were provided with €700 million for this to be exaggerated and 942 million was actually realised. Again, it's a completely wrong grade. And in fact, we can conclude from all this that this time it will also happen the exact opposite of what Mr Member, who loves fairy tales, had just announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u44	First, I must explain in the replica that Mr Kovacic has been engaged. I am not a Member of the Social Democrats, but I am a Member of the Group of Members of the Social and Slovenian Democrats. Slovenian Democrats are you, you used to be, I don't know, Slovenian Democrats, now I don't know exactly what you are. That's the first thing you need to know. Secondly, you know, right now, it looks like today we're going to have another discussion about those who point to something. I have asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to explain to us why we have more than 400 million euros in inflatable revenues if we have so far drained 200 million of them in the 9 months of this year. And then we got a raid of pre-prepared attacks on individuals we're alerting. That's very typical. She needs it, as it's called, "Kill the massinger." About the forecasting. I am very sorry, Mr Kovacic, very sorry that there was no need to raise VAT. Why? Because VAT has risen due to an increase in inflation. And I am very sorry that we have a situation in Slovenia that is very serious. It would be much easier to raise VAT and, at the time of low inflation, to get an additional 10% VAT revenue. The fact that VAT revenues are 9.7% without a rise in the rate is the result of 13% of inflation. And this is problematic, Mr Kovacic, 13% inflation at a fixed rate of the euro. And I quote the AMF's warnings: "Slovenia - taking over the euro is a test for the seriousness and sustainability of macroeconomic policy; fiscal policy needs to urgently reduce demand and deal with inflation, which is "well above", which is a strong over 2% goal of the European Central Bank and fiscal policy must deal with austerity reforms." This is a warning, and I know that this is difficult for the Government to do, the easiest thing for the Government to do is to use fictitious data on the use of European funds to inflate expenditure in 2009. However, since 2009 is already the year of the new mandate, you do not have this mandate. Not yet, so it's a fiction that needs to be discussed and given the right answers here and now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate or application. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u46	I tried to get some answers yesterday in the debate on the 2008 budget or changes in the budget, but apparently there is no response from the Government. Some things have been repeated today by other discussers and an interesting thesis has been established. You all take it from the defense and you want to give it to someone else. But really only the government coalition has taken away from the defence, and this is also repeated in 2009, from the most vital part when it comes to scientific research, when it comes to technological equipment, when it comes to higher levels of equipment of the Slovenian Army and training. I thought that the decrease of EUR 3 million on this item would already be lower than in 2007 and 2008 than in the index of 96%, and now you have reduced EUR 3 million 400,000. I thought that, given that the Minister of Defence of the President of DeSUS was demonstrating more social rights in Ljubljana, he was going to be a pensioner and that, on the page where he wrote, this is going to be page 78 of 149, that there will be something taken away from social transfers. Nothing's been removed. Where did these millions of euros go and others? Yesterday I also asked how there was no explanation and that there was a silent change in the programme, although it should be in the National Assembly, for a 20% reduction in the number of members of the Slovenian Army. The increase in equipment is also for index 120. What's the difference, 40%? Why we are purchasing certain things, we are expected to obtain them in the 2009 budget for an army that we will never have. I have quoted the statements of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, where it says: "Ambition is no longer such, but in the grave, 7,100 in 2008 and 7,200 around 2009." You still have an index of 120 to equip your army. Who's gonna use all the equipment? I don't mind if we have a serious discussion of what Slovenia really needs, what an army. No excuses, that's what we promised. Even NATO and all international matters are particularly flexible, change from year to year, create new goals, and I assure you from sources close to NATO, that you will not think that I will betray any secrecy, say: What does Slovenia force by buying or getting a Russian artillery that does not need it? What does he get some things that were really in some programs, but still, because all of this is changing, and if you can't provide 8,500 soldiers in 2009, then do you also have programs? And even in view of the high economic growth or the rise in social gross product, it is not true that 2% of the percentage that we have to devote to these things and is, once and for all, concrete and nothing can change. These are the things I'd like to get an answer about. And today I was incredibly surprised this morning, and I'd like to explain. Two months ago, there was some rather interesting public information, and journalists were asking if we know that the Minister of Defence or this government, instead of signing up 12 light armoured reconnaissance vehicles, bought only 10 of these vehicles for 17 to 19 million euros, plus 22.7 million euros. Who can understand that? We always hear how great you're negotiating, how great you're buying, and here we see that for more money we get significantly less. If the objectives have changed, if we don't need it anymore, thank God, let's give this money to health care, to education, to social transfers that are obviously undervalued, also being fed in this budget. And that's why I'm even more surprised to get this writing today, which says, "In line with the 2008 draft budget and the 2009 budget, the purchase and construction plan for the Slovenian Army is planned to purchase 10 light reconnaissance vehicles in 2008 of €22.7 million." But, look, when this call was made in the autumn of 2006, there was nowhere, in no procedure, to modify the 2008 budget, except the 2009 budget. But here is exactly the figure that was negotiated, signed for this amount of the contract and later in a report that has yesterday's date that came at 8 a.m. to the National Assembly, and says that it was already in the 2009 draft budget. Did you, Minister, say out loud last autumn already have a clear entry at this point as far as you can predict in the 2009 budget for these purposes? I don't think so. We understand it's going here - it can be a lapsus, but it's a lack of transparency, it's something you can't understand. And indeed, I am returning to the basic question if they hold to the statements of the Ministry representatives in this house, what they will do in 2009, contrary, of course, to the documents adopted in the National Assembly, because the documents are adopted at 8,500, how can it be that in the 2009 budget you remain on the figures for equipping the Slovenian Army, as if there were 8,500 soldiers. Of course, it saddens me that I can't find any real increase in the work that speaks of providing the conditions "to ensure staff readiness". The index is 108. The index is 108 in 2008, which means - but of course it's the planned 7,100 soldiers, not the 8,500. And that's fine if that's what you've decided. But you will explain, not you, but the government, why so. But how will you provide for these 7,100 or 7,200 soldiers in 2009, for the first time, a compensation that will be lost in reality due to inflation and other pressures, and for the second time, a real increase, which should bring about the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which we adopted in July in the National Assembly. The promises were big. Trends are negative. In 2006, more soldiers left the Slovenian Army than they came. You all know that. I read the newspaper Finance and all the other ones where these numbers come in. How does he plan to handle these things? Again, it is a social dimension, and I must return to the demonstration in the centre of Ljubljana, where ministers demonstrate, but do not deal with the issues that they have to settle after their official duties in the negotiations for the budget. I've never heard of the Minister of Defence getting excited about taking his money for scientific development, for research projects and so on. No, no, no. I really thought, I said okay, they followed some logic to take something from this title and they'll put it in the social and the sphere where it's necessary. You can't see that from the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Clearly, this letter, mentioned by Mr Anderlich, if it refers to a budget that has not yet been adopted or a change in the budget for 2008 and 2009, is a mistake. Otherwise, I cannot at present answer whether the Ministry of Defence has sufficient resources or not in its current budget for 2008. I'm assuming that yes and that this letter was misrepresented. I can't tell you right now why only 10 units instead of 12 and the price is higher. I hope that I will be able to respond to this in particular during the course of the sitting. However, as regards the resources allocated to science and technology in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, this is account number 5. That's 501, 502, 503 and 504. I'd like to repeat what I said yesterday. Since this is happening again, I have to do it again. The arguments are repeated. I speak in euros as far as historical data is concerned. In 2000, the Republic of Slovenia allocated 79.2 million euros for science and technology. In 2001, this increased to 121.5, then in 2002 to 129.8 million euros, in 2003 to 146.9 and in the year 163.3. So this is some gradual increase that has brought about during this period when this government has assumed its responsibilities, up to EUR 163 million for science and technological development. Since then, this has increased in 2005 to 177.8, then in 2006 to 207.4, and in 2007 we estimate that implementation will be 223.7. 223.7 will, according to the best estimate of the Ministry of Finance's professional services, be the sum actually earmarked for this purpose. In the 2008 budget we had 264, but now we will actually have 263 on the basis of this change. 263 million, if you compare it, is a much larger figure than it was in the past. This is where the funds are gradually increasing. If the amendments proposed for 2008 are actually adopted, 260 instead of 263 will be adopted. Yet 260 is far more than 223 than it was last year. However, we propose that there be 312, 313 million in the 2009 budget. We gradually implement and allocate more resources from one year to another, although the initial figures are very poor, from 80 million, but if we are talking now about the 223 in 2007 and 260 in 2008 and 312 or 313 million in 2009, this is obvious and clear. I would also like to mention the resources involved; these are those provided for in the 2006 and 2007 budgets for scientific development at the Ministry of Defence. If we look at the closing accounts, and also at the best estimates we have, these funds were, in some ways, too large for what they were able to actually do, that they were used at 80%. That is why we do not see too much tragedy in this because it depends on what the real and actual link is at the daily level between the research structure in Slovenia and cooperation with the Ministry of Defence. We expect this to spread over time, and we are counting on this to happen, as is the characteristic in other NATO member countries, that a lot of funding is being spent on R & D through the Ministry of Defence. As far as the entire defence budget is concerned. I think I have to point out here again the fact that Slovenia has committed itself to earmarking 2% of GDP for defence during this period. This is our commitment, but in the 2008 budget it's only 1.7. The guarantees made by the Ministry of Defence's professional services were that the objectives were specific commitments made by Slovenia within the NATO framework to ensure that they were also ensured. I hope that's true, too. Otherwise, in the course of this meeting, we will strive to have more concrete answers as far as this is concerned. But what I'm trying to say is that we're a long way from what we're committed to. We committed ourselves when we accepted NATO membership to 2% of GDP and we're at 1.7. I think that any reasonable person can clearly see that, as far as this is concerned, we are also guided by a conservative policy, that it is not just some quantitative objectives, whether they are basically sufficient or not, that those key commitments we have adopted are actually being implemented. Finally, I must mention again the story of the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. I explained it yesterday, but since the same claims are repeated, I have to say it again. I said, and I will now restate that in December 2004, when I took over the responsibility of the Minister for Finance, my predecessor actually offered a hand and has already prepared a report on the Convergence Programme for 2005, for which I was very grateful, because it would be impossible for the new team to actually do so within a few days. I took some time, examined this thing, certain minor changes were included, and it was also our program. But by the way my predecessor did it, he also gave me a clear message. The clear message was: What is written here would reach me if you did not dramatically change things. And that was where the 2006 debt was foreseen - you can check it out - the convergence programmes are on the Ministry of Finance's website - to achieve something over 30% of GDP. 30% of GDP was what the message said it was that 30% could be achieved. What are the specifics now? The concrete data, which are fully credible and verifiable, is that the debt of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006 actually reached only 27.1% in order to reach 25.6 at the end of 2007 on the basis of the best estimates made by the Ministry of Finance’s professional services. To achieve 24.7 and 23.8 in 2009 on the basis of this fiscal policy, which is the subject of so many serious words at this meeting. The debt of the Republic of Slovenia is declining. At the same time, word is that we're supposed to be hiding something one way or another. This government and this Ministry of Finance have nothing to hide. If anything, we took responsibility and cleaned up all sorts of things that had been hidden in the past. In the past, the whole debate on public finances was focused only on the budget and only on the budget. And the budget has always had a goal of not having a deficit of more than 1%. And that was relatively achieved. However, this possibility, when we talk about public finances, that we are talking only about the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, is far behind us. Why? Because the external council, especially the European Commission, the European Central Bank, has absolutely nothing to do with how we have our public finances distributed. And we have a budget that represents about 58% of public finances, we have three more cash registers, we have a health treasury, we have a STIZ, we have local self-government, we have all the municipalities, we have all the institutions, we have all the agencies, we have all the different agencies, and we have the SOD and the CAD. If we take all this together, then it's important when we talk about public finances, we only talk about it. Because ultimately what affects or does not affect either inflation or any other matter, including the obligation to reduce these deficits. What happened in the past? In 2001, if you look at this whole: the budget plus four cash registers and everything else, this deficit was 3.9% of the gross domestic product. In 2001, it grew rapidly to 4%, then fell to 2.8 in 2002, then to 2.5 and then to 2.3. 2.3% was the total deficit of public finances in 2004, when we assumed these responsibilities. And as it has already been exposed and I think that it is still necessary to repeat, next year, 2005, the first year of this government, not only have we cleared and cleared the debts that have been marked in other cash registers, we have completely reduced it from 2.3 to 1.5. Next year, 1.2% of GDP and this year, I repeat, will be a maximum of 0.57. Somewhere between 0.5 and 0.6, this is going to happen. This is a very important thing. Why? Because of the 4% we've been used to in the past, it's now 0.5. And that's what's important. It is important that, in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact, these amendments, which are concluded in 2005, each Member State must declare and predict its medium-term objective. The medium-term deficit target in the overall picture must be achieved by each country. We have announced this, and the European Commission has also accepted it, and the European Central Bank has also accepted it, so that the deficit could be minus 1% of GDP. What happened? It was accepted because they also understood that Slovenia, with such a relatively small debt, is now looking at a 27% global in the area, which is far from the forecast and projected 30% of my predecessors, which will now fall to 25.6 in 2007 and 24.7 and 23.8 in 2009. What does that mean? That we have been granted this because everyone is aware that a country such as Slovenia, which has left Slovenia over the past decades and has not made sufficient investments in certain key Slovenian infrastructure projects such as the completion of the system of motorways and also railways, that it can and does not jeopardise the whole situation, and that is why it has been accepted. We had a special meeting in Berlin this April, and it was found that, given that we are living in relatively good times, we should all make some special effort to reduce this and achieve these medium-term goals earlier. I repeat, the Republic of Slovenia will meet its medium-term objective in 2007, which is two years earlier than it was set. So we meet everything as far as this is concerned. And there's something else we need to mention, and now I'm going back to the problem of inflation. I have already explained yesterday, but since today is speaking again in the same sense as if nothing had been said in this Chamber, I have to repeat once again what our estimates are, as far as inflation is concerned in 2007. Inflation in 2007, which was forecasted by Umar in the autumn 2006 report slightly over 2.5%, in the second half, actually received one major shock in the last week of April, and these were the prices of unprocessed food. Unprocessed food prices increased when non-January elements came to the market; in particular, vegetables already available in the spring have increased significantly. It was the first shock. However, the second shock was later, even when there was an even greater increase in food, even on the processing side. If you take and add up what was the food increase in April and May and then later in June and July, you come to 1.9%. This should be added to the fact that 0.7% is the impact on oil, oil and petroleum products. So this is a shock on the supply side, not demand. And this is about some theory, which has no basis in the data yet, but only in the bitter speeches that inflation in the Republic of Slovenia is due to the demand either for households or for the country. That the country is reducing its consumption as a share of GDP, it is clear and households have not changed their consumption significantly. In fact, there is no sign that in Slovenia we would have what is known as inflation, which recognises as its driving force precisely demand or spending, but not that it is by supply, which is also indicated by data. So I would suggest that when we talk about these things, we look at the data again, and that tons of different presentations go down because it doesn't make sense to talk like that without any analytical basis. Finally, the question raised as regards European funds. We are not proud of what is happening, and we will certainly spend less money this year than we planned. However, I must tell you that of all Member States, Slovenia is the best. But that's not good enough, because it's obviously gonna be less than we should. What's really going on? It is happening that in this area it is very strictly necessary to enforce and respect absolutely all the rules of the game, because the European Commission is very careful to examine all these things and if it detects any differences or problems, not only must we recover the funds, but we can also receive such or other penalties. The fact is, the system works too slowly. But we know that through reorganisation within all institutions we can now expect that what we have now planned is not as crazy or as fiction as we have now heard. In this regard, I would also like to mention that, during the course of the meeting, we will also receive more specific information from the Government's Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service in order to make this public, as it is appropriate. In any case, I think that the words that are used should be slightly softened. It's not a fiction, it's a conscious plan by ministries that realize they're having problems this year, but because they're fixing these problems, the system will work better. And what we're planning in 2008 is in no way a fiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to express my concern at the under-appreciating attitude of this Government towards the National Assembly as an institution. I ask the leadership of the National Assembly, as well as representatives of the Government and the Minister, where the other government representatives are, where are the ministers, where are the ministers, where is the President of the Government? On 8 November, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided that this document would be defended by the President of the Government, 17 ministers and ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government, the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government and three co-workers and the co-worker of the Minister of Finance. I propose inviting absent ministers and ministers to take part in this discussion as soon as possible. After all, it is necessary to answer the many substantive dilemmas and questions that we are asking in this National Assembly, because not only does everything revolve around the height of a certain item, but there are also substantive reasons behind it. When we discussed the 54 road amendments earlier, the representative of the Ministry of Transport never once spoke and contributed something substantive to the discussion. In addition, there are many questions about how we will draw on European funds. And here are the district ministers who can tell us more. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, I am concerned about this underestimating attitude of the Government towards the National Assembly, and also about the substantive continuation of this discussion, I propose that you invite absent ministers and ministers and the President of the Government to come to the National Assembly. Today we have only seen the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health here, and at the moment, except for Dr. Bajuk, who sits there in the parliamentary benches, there is no one here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Everyone you mentioned was invited, and I think your words went public, too. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u52	I repeat to the Minister, first of all with the following observations. I agree, Mr Minister, that the situation in the area of European funds is not good and we have a serious problem. But I have to replicate because he said "not so crazy." I didn't use that term. But I said it was fiction. But if it's fiction, of course I can prove it with data. For example: You planned 233 million structural policy funds in 2007 - implementation of 11.7% for 9 months. You have planned the European Social Fund - 83 million, implementation is 5%. What's the problem? On 10 October, the Minister of Finance had this information, which the President of the Government had on 10 October, and on 12 October, in the National Assembly, he explained how almost everything is very pink in the area of European funds. And when someone publicly explains that the situation is different, it's called deception. I propose, President, that the ministers responsible - for the social fund is the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for the Structural Fund is quite a few ministers: Mr Vizjak, Mr Žagar, Mr Development Minister, for the financial instrument of fisheries, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture for Forestry and Food and so on, that these people are known. This is a fundamental question. If they have so far absorbed 200 million euros this year, how can they believe that the next year will be 801 million and in 2009 will be 880 million from the European Union. This is a national economic and developmental issue. Now only those who will say that it "doesn't matter" that if it isn't used, there will be no expenditure and so on. The story is even more complicated. In anticipation of these promises, spending is already happening, so we already have an impact on inflation, we have not received only money from the European Union and therefore we have and should have a very serious discussion on this point. Last week, the President of the Government explained everything possible about the relationship with the European Union, and this is not what the President of the Government hopes to say. I don't know how he's going to talk about 'effective reform' of the European budget if he has a catastrophic withdrawal from the European budget here in Slovenia. Therefore, it is also likely that it would be useful for him to hear, at least in the cabinet, if he is not already listening to this discussion with us and that, publicly, not in some closed sessions, we hear what is going on in the area of non-supplying European funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u53	Mr. Anderlich, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u54	Mr. Bevk, don't worry about where the ministers are. I know that Mr Erjavec is preparing for a press conference to be held at 12 noon and will present the achievements he has achieved in the last year in his field of the budget. But if it doesn't work, he'll go on the road and demonstrate his rights. But it's either a misstatement or a misunderstanding with the minister. I spoke exclusively about the means for scientific research activity or science and technological development for the Ministry of Defence, he spoke in general and about everyone. And when we speak for the Ministry of Defence, the figures say: for 2007 - 22 million euros, the budget for 2008 - 24 million euros, the budget changes for 2008 - minus 1 million euros, the draft budget for 2009 - 22 million euros or index 96.9 - the budget for this item is 18 million 995 thousand euros. In short, a further 3 million €400,000 reduction. I can't read like that. When we entered NATO, it was clearly stated that only technologically best equipped, that science-supported military could be successful both at home and around crisis hotspots. Where are we going? I'm asking where we're going. The index has dropped. That's my question. Second question. When the minister talks about 2%, it's a promise. One of the coalition members asked at a meeting of the Defence Committee, where we discussed the 2009 budget, "But I would ask the ministry, given that we have a 2% commitment and we have a smaller percentage, whether there are any consequences?" And the minister answers, "So I think that because the percentage will be slightly lower and 2% will not be achieved, we will realize by these means all of our commitments so that there will be no problem." So because the GDP growth in Slovenia is greater than anticipated when we entered NATO, NATO also understands that the percentage can be lower, because what we have to get can be obtained by these percentages that are. And if nothing else, I also talked about if he was talking about the 2% commitment, then the commitment was 8,500 soldiers. In your documents, you say 7,100 in the coming year and 7,200 in 2009. And that's what had to be explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable representatives of the government. Honourable Presidents, fellow Members and Members. As for this last debate that I am hearing today: once a gentleman says that it is too much for the military, he now speaks and opposes the reduction of something with the balance. In fact, it must decide whether to do more or less. He can't explain at the same meeting once like that, otherwise. In my debate, I would also like to explain from the point of view of the municipalities why I understand that the government's announcement that in the coming year, 2008 and 2009, this European funding will be increased than it was in the year to come. I am not, in fact, surprised that Mr Squeakle has found this as some kind of neurological point in this draft budget. This is the same as it explained all the time about VAT last year, today some have already read you a magnetogram. That didn't happen. Today, you simply said that the government has done so by increasing inflation. This too is probably not enough for you how the Minister explained how this inflation is actually occurring and where the reasons are. We are moving towards what is happening in the structural funds and cohesion funds segment, where municipalities are also expected to contribute to the use of these funds. If I look at our statistical region, this is the area of Styria or much of Styria, I must first say that most municipalities in this area in 2007 did not draw on the funds of coherent regional development from these structural funds. Why didn't we pump? We simply caused the congregations, 41 congregations, to do so ourselves. For the first half of the year, we couldn't agree on how we would divide the 134 million we get from the EU after we agreed, but we didn't have or most of the municipalities didn't have any projects. In this way, we only get decisions on the approval of certain projects now that these funds will no longer be spent in 2007 and this expenditure will go away in 2008. But these funds will definitely be used during this period. As far as this is concerned, this consumption will increase significantly in 2008. Another problem that I see in this regard is that it is necessary to provide its own source, about 30% of the value of the project. Unfortunately, I note that some municipalities, including ours, have in the past committed themselves to the ceiling and will not be able to mate with their own resources and actually provide their own resources either from net budgets or at the expense of this, so that credit arrangements can now be reached. The second area is the area of cohesion, and there are even larger projects, and the municipalities have taken an intensive approach in 2007 to the production of project documentation. Those who are mayors in this National Assembly know all these problems very well, or we know them well, and it might be good if you, my colleague, took a little interest in how these things actually work. In 2008, 2009 also in the area of cohesion, this pumping will be significantly better as regards municipalities as it was in 2007, because projects are being intensively prepared in many segments. And one thing is, we are in this game for the first time to draw on these funds, and I must say that in this implementation we are learning intensively how these things are actually done. Slovenia is a newcomer in this area, and obviously in previous years we have not prepared well enough or prepared enough, but you can believe that we already know a lot. I regret that, in fact, in this budget, as Members of this National Assembly, we do not know how to commend what the achievements of this budget are. And the fact that the share of the state sector's revenues in the last 10 years is the lowest, 41.5% and that this will continue to decline, as well as the gross social product in the budget itself is decreasing, achieves the lowest share this year after 2002, that is 23.35%, with the budgetary deficit being reduced, these are large achievements and the work of this government. Unfortunately, we're only showing up at one point, but at this point, it's really not the best. We all show only or those who criticize this as much as possible, all you say is in a slightly higher inflation than in the European Union, even though the whole European Union is facing increased inflation. Indeed, we have almost once more in the European Union, and economic growth is one more time than it is within the European Union. I think that all these figures, which the Minister has previously said, and which undoubtedly hold, which he can argue and prove to the Slovenian public, are certainly the result of successful work, successful tax reform and all those debatable bureaucratic processes that we have adopted in these three years of this work in this National Assembly. It is clear that Slovenia is growing and will achieve 91% of the European average in this year's data on gross social product. I would also like to point out that what amendments have been tabled here in the field of road construction is said to be significantly increased in 2009 for local road infrastructure, by more than 43%, also for other roads, to increase the funds for technological development by 63%, as well as to increase the resources in the field of social policy, particularly the protection of children and families, by 61%. Of course, in New Slovenia we are still aware that all this and other things cannot be fixed overnight and improve the poor demographic policies that Slovenia is facing. However, we are very pleased that in recent years the birth rate in Slovenia has increased slowly and we are convinced that Slovenia, of course, if we all know how to use it in the right way, in the right way, but not that everything that we want to do good is critical of it and with our finger, the government has done it wrong, this and this. We must be aware that when we point to others with our finger, the four fingers are always facing themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u58	Look at the magnetogram, you'll see that you're me, but maybe you've forgotten already you're Mr. Sok, what you said, I agree with you. [[...]] [[...]] It is difficult to agree on drawing on European funds, problems with borrowing municipalities for their own resources, the fact that the Government has decided that about 3.5 billion cohesion funds will break into thousands of small projects - all of this is the issue that needs to be discussed here and today. Just an example. You've decided to have a thousand small projects. The average project is now 3 and half million euros, but the costs of administration are the same, regardless of the size of the projects. And you've made up your own mind. And now that we have the structure that we have, we have a lot of problems. And these problems, gentlemen, have so far been denied. Minister Zhagar said a year and a half ago that we were much better than in 2004, and the Minister of Finance is explaining today that the situation is bad. Minister, you've been Minister of Finance for three years! You've been Minister of Finance for three years, and you've had the opportunity to improve things. And now you're saying we're new and so on. If you look at the figures for Phare and Sapard funds, 1993-2004, you'll see that we drew 95 to 98%. Yes! But when you took power, you drove all the people away. Gentlemen, look where the beneficiaries of these projects are today - whether they are employed in the European Union or in the Court of Auditors. Take a look at the structure of the current Government Service for Local Self-Government and those that carried out these 500 million euro loans. Not to mention the problem of the Ministry of Finance, the problem of supervision and so on. In short, the situation where Slovenia managed to absorb 34% of the funds in the 9 months of this year, and plans to draw EUR 880 million instead of an average of 480 million in 2008 and 2009, is a pure fiction. And this requires that individual ministers explain this to us, particularly Minister Žagar, Minister for Development, less Minister for Agriculture, who is the only one who is excusedly absent today in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is at a meeting in the European Union, but all other ministers with the President of the Government at the head should be here today and explain this, not to torture and explain with your statements exactly what we have said - the matter is poorly set.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica, you know that. Mr. Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! This debate on funds from the European Union, planned in 2009, seems a bit ridiculous and unprofessional to me. Those who have little knowledge of public finances know that all the funds we expect are planned first on all budgetary consumers and through ministries. And if these programs aren't realized, there's going to be a fallout on both sides. This will have absolutely nothing to do with the deficit and no matter. If the funds are not realized, the programmes must be prepared first, then they must be realized and then the money will come back. It is true, however, that we plan such funds, as our planners do, despite the backlogs that are problematic to realize them in this short period of time. Then I'd say something else. Yesterday's and today's inflation debate that affects our budget - I don't know why we're talking so much about this because it's the opposite, but maybe not the other way around, I'll explain it. We estimate higher revenues in 2007 than we planned, in 2008 and in 2009, mainly due to the precise headings from which we expect them. There will be more income, more contributions from legal persons' profits, more taxes, VAT, more excise duties. That is why we have higher income projected - because obviously we have managed well, we have produced good results that we have distributed among the people who created this result because there is an increase in income, which is the part that people have paid more on wages because they have more, that is exactly the percentage base, that is the basis of how much you have and from which this income increases. Another issue is the income of legal persons, we know that the amount is large, we can be pleased that companies have produced such good results that despite the reduction of effective tax rates, the amount of the proceeds from this title is increasing. Thus, the results are extremely good and we can be proud that we have contributed through certain measures in various areas to improve the competitive capacity of our economy, to increase confidence in the economy and, of course, to prove this through very good economic growth. Thus, inflation does not affect, but rather higher consumption, higher revenues, higher consumption in our stores, in our investments, so to speak, bring more to the country. And just as it has been possible for those who have created higher wages to make more profits and have had the opportunity to spend for special purposes, the country can also spend part of these increased revenues for precisely the specific purposes it has set out in its programmes and its policy of governance. I think it's actually about inflation, the whole state budget in our total consumption doesn't mean much. I'd like to say what economic logic says about inflation itself. In the first class of the economy, or I don't know where we learn that the market operates on the basis of supply and demand. And if we have too much on the one hand, if the supply is too large, prices are going to go down, if the demand is too high, prices are going up. And secondly, the market must be completely free and accessible. The fact is, in our own market, in our own system of functioning of our market economy, in our competition system, I think demand has increased more slowly, demand has not been reflected more quickly in the increased supply due to various cartels, monopolistic arrangements that still have space in our country. Once full competition is ensured, inflation will also be better regulated. Some things we have to do on this matter, for example, I mentioned one of the things that can cause more inflation, which is also an increase in the indebtedness of the population and the economy both at home and abroad. As an example, this year, when we look at data for 7 months, the debt of natural persons and economies increased by EUR 4 billion, from EUR 20 billion to EUR 24 billion. This is 19% compared to 1.1. And that is, if not the other, one rather large jump on the demand side, which did not react immediately and reflected in increased prices. Also, our behaviour and the behaviour of all of us who participate in this process of supply-questioning has never been used to this system, so that we as consumers can influence the prices themselves. Above all, good information is important, and I think it is right that the economic ministry is now working so hard to inform people about certain abnormal situations in the markets. I don't know, I personally look at people who say, "We don't have the money," but they buy the most expensive items, even though they have the opportunity for two, three times the price to buy a cheaper thing. What do I know, I don't have a small salary, I always buy bread, bread for 1 euro. A colleague who says he has a much lower salary buys one for 2.5. And I don't know, I'm actually better at this one, and I'd like to list the cases. In short, people need to be informed, alerted to these unfair approaches, unfair competition - as I would say, this consumer logic is too misleading for people. One factor that I personally feel is that we are very well prepared for the transition to the euro. It is not the euro's fault, the transition to the euro, that prices have now begun to rise. Not at all, but he caused some confusion in our heads. The fact is that at the time, right after the introduction, we had very strict warnings, we had a double price labelling, and all of it, and we were recalculating it very precisely, and now it's lost. We don't have double prices anymore, and somehow we haven't begun to think in euros, so we would have very clearly on one hand how much we earn, and on the other hand how much we spend. So it happens to us that many times we spend too much, and then we rent ourselves some credits, we go down at the limits, and this demand increases again. It is said that the things that need to be handled with patience and slowness are alarming, but not as terrible as they are spoken of. Maybe another piece of information, I think the minister said 1.77 earlier, if I understand correctly, to the lady of the defense. I think it would be fair to add here another 65 million euros, which we pay for the old planes and these things, to pay off the debt to TRP, because we always translate it from one address to another. But the fact is that we bought this on credit, that sometimes in the Ministry of Defence, this thing was set up as an item in the budget, and now it is no longer, but only a new debt. So, even in the European Community, Nate could prove that that is our defence cost, regardless of the fact that it is not planned at the defence ministry. I don't want to talk anymore. Once again, I would like to distribute this cake for 2009, and we expect €38 billion 482 million for GDP. The total consumption of all four cash registers is 16 billion 045, the deficit we will be able to afford is 125 million euros, which is 0.33 in these matters. I would always add that out of this, the budget is only 9,112 billion, 4693 billion will be spent on pensions, 2,302 billion on health care and the municipalities will spend 1955 billion. It is always right to say what this common image is and it is right that all these elements of public spending in the National Assembly should be discussed and decided on. We only talk here about the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed proposal for the 2009 updated draft budget. We think it's going in the right direction - it doesn't seem, we know. The successful tax reform, which has eased the red tape economy and reduced tax rates, has had an impact on increased economic growth. At the same time, as the tax burden on the economy and the population decreases, the public deficit is the lowest in the history of Slovenia. And if it were not for the budget of the railway line, these public finances would certainly be levelled in 2008. For these railways we have decided together that it is necessary to rebuild, and as the former Minister once said: "They have not been renewed or invested since the time of Mary Teresa." I would also like to say again to the public, because Mr Swickl said how successful the Government had been in drawing funds from the previous mandate, that this Government had inherited holes in the pension register, in the health, in the school register, and that people who were employed or retired had no pensions, wages, and that we had made up for it at that time. And that's quite a success for the government. At the same time, there was that VAT, which was famous, unchanged, which was 8.5% and 19%. And last year, two former government officials, the current MP, constantly pressured the finance minister to admit that he would raise this tax rate next year. Now, as if this tax rate no longer matters, which has remained unchanged. I also heard a comment yesterday that the subsidy money was running out. This is basically a lie that some Members are distraught by. The Ministry of Agriculture has also received a poor legacy and has also cleared up by listening to the Minister of Finance, both the tasks or debts of the previous mandate, the most nitrite directive, various compensations for drought and natural disasters, and the regular payment of subsidies within the legal time limit. However, this ministry is also the most successful in drawing funds from the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, of course two. First of all, we agree on agriculture. This system was set up at the time of the previous Government and started to be set up by Mr Smrkolj, followed by Minister But, and I suppose you have improved with corrections to the Agency for Agricultural Markets. I don't have a problem here. Again on VAT. Inflation has become a fundamental economic and political problem. And today we are talking about whether the 2008 and 2009 budget will reduce or accelerate this inflation. And our criticism of the 2008 story is that it is not necessary to adopt a budget, which triples the increase in public spending, to increase the budget in 2008 compared to 2007. In 2009, this increase is slightly lower because the base is already very high. However, in 2009, the problem is that obviously we will not, in the light of the problems that you Members, Mr Sok and some others have been talking about, perhaps draw on European funds, so we will have some, in saying, 'fictional consumption', we will have some projects, but we will not really cover these projects. And it is incorrect on the part of the financial plan proponents, the Ministry of Finance or the Minister, because it is important to say that in 2009 it will be the same as one in seven years of the financial perspective as the average drawdown of this year's funds for two years. It's fiction. We didn't get an answer for her today. And this, as some economists said yesterday, is affecting the mood in society, including what people think about inflationary expectations. But to talk about this debate, let's calm these horses down so that we can stop this pressure of public spending on all kinds of expenses - and no one wants to talk about it. Now, just one more thing. You are all talking today about the so-called decline in the share of public spending in GDP. You know, in Argentina, when you had high inflation, the share of public consumption fell from 50 to 40, to 30, to 20 - because you have high inflation. And to say that it is good that the share falls when you have about 12.13% of the growth of the so-called nominal GDP due to much higher inflation than you planned, but simply shows that some of the foundations of fiscal policy management in Slovenia do not want to understand. And that's why yesterday's warning to the IMF is so harsh. Fiscal policy needs a serious reflection on demand reduction and must focus on inflation, which is strong beyond the objective that Slovenia, as a member of the Eurogroup, should pursue. And this target is 2% inflation. And how - to focus on spending reduction reforms! Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u66	In short, I would like to tell my colleague Cwickle once again that, as far as community funds are concerned, problems have arisen in 2007 because the municipalities did not agree on how the funds of the Structural Funds will be distributed among themselves. When we agreed on this municipality, we then came to a period when this year these funds could no longer be used and will be transferred to 2008. Specifically, if I speak of the municipality from which I come, we will spend €2 million from the Structural Fund for 2007 and 2008 through a decision of the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which we already have. And as far as I know, most municipalities are preparing project documentation - which does not depend on the government, but this is the work that the congregations themselves had to do. Projects for cohesion funds are also being prepared, which will mainly come into effect in 2008 and beyond. So these are the facts. And on the basis of this assumption by the Government that this pump will be bigger in 2008 and 2009, there is no fiction, but a pure and naked reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since I see you want to discuss this further, I'm opening the application. Excuse me? Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-General, representatives of the ministries. My question, in particular the initiative, relates to the recovery of the cases of storms and the resources allocated by this country to the water fund. After the storm, we talked a lot about one part of this story, and in the other part, now that the bills need to be paid and spoken forward, of course, a whole bunch of answers are coming, a whole bunch of responses to this account, that ministries are also talking to each other. The fact is that the resources for water management are insufficient for 2008, for 2009 and beyond. As long as these resources are needed to repair the damage caused by watercourses - one is rehabilitation, the other is opposite reconstruction and the third is not going to increase - then all citizens, citizens, municipalities and ministries in cases such as the Railways will continue to be lost. To tell you the situation in Gorenjska or in particular from the municipality of Tržič, where I come from: no money for cleaning the trunks, no money for repairing the walls, no money for repairing the shafts and more. And it's only a matter of time before the railroads return somewhere else. And then the damage will be 10 times that I am not specifically talking about the victims that are most important, then the material damage will be 10 times, because we do not know at this moment in the 2008 and 2009 budgets the appropriate means of prevention. Water is an exclusive concern of the state, not of the municipalities, not of people, not of landowners. First of all, the concern for watercourses concerns the state, and I must tell you that in 2008 and 2009, this budget does not achieve those standards and those norms, and those concerns, as Mary Teresa provided 100 years ago. Back then, we had a watering job, just like it did. And I'm asking you again, I'm begging you, I'm not criticizing, I'm asking you, and I'm begging you to just give water care more resources, more money, because our system is collapsing. Two months since the storm, the ministry has helped us in the first step, but if the relevant ministries, such as the Ministry of the Free and Environment, the Ministry of Finance and the Government, in the framework of the distribution of this cake, do not provide any more resources, then we will have major problems in the field and in the long run all the more expenses. The second question I would like to draw attention to, however, is what is already the principles of Mr Slavko Sok, how these cohesion and European projects are going. The state will be able to help municipalities in an unenviable financial situation and, together with the ministry, to allocate more resources. Let me tell you a story, like a local story. Before 2005, we received a European cohesion project, which was currently estimated at 18 million euros and another change, the key to 61% of Europe, 30% of municipalities and ministries, 10% of municipalities. Today, before we planted the first shovel, this project is already worth €21 million due to construction incentives. However, when we tried to close another one of the stories, the construction of a central cleaning plant, a request for €3.7 million was sent to Brussels, the most expensive offer we received is €6.9 million in addition to two million in incentives, in addition to all the additional works at the same cleaning plant, €3.2 million in additional funds. The Slovene municipalities of this municipality will simply not be able to do so with additional indebtedness, with the burden of the population. Especially those where the mandate was assumed, for example, with an inheritance of about EUR 4, 5 or 6 million. It is also necessary to seek solutions within the government and ministries to complete these cohesion projects in order to signify development, because they undoubtedly represent this, not the developing bar. For in the congregations, regardless of how we save, culture, social, education, kindergartens, and sports must go on. And it is easy to think about these issues within the Government and within the framework of budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u69	Thank you, too. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. I ask, Minister, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since there were a lot of issues related to the drawing up of European funds yesterday and today, I would still try to explain these things a little bit, stressing that the picture is not nearly as black as it is trying to present itself in this budgetary debate, so that it is of course necessary to be aware of the real possibilities and the real frameworks. The issue is quite complex, so I would try to systematically present it, first of all when we talk about European funds, I speak of course about the area of structural funds and the cohesion fund, i.e. the area of cohesion policy, where our service is competent as a management body, the operators of individual projects and content planners are then the ministries. First, we have to split up into two parts. The first part is the existing financial perspective or perspective, which was concluded in 2007 with regard to content. It is true, however, that, in terms of drawing on European funds, the M+2 rule continues this year and in the following year, and these funds must therefore be planned in next year's budgets - I am talking about 2008 and cohesion fund funds, where the drawdown will not end until 2010. Because there is a different approach, which means that these funds are planned not only in the budgets for 2008 and 2009, but will also have to be planned in 2010 for those last funds to be returned at that time. With regard to the success of these existing financial perspectives, I must say that with the extraordinary efforts made within the Government in view of the heritage that has been presented here, we must say very clearly that we have not been able to modify the core document, such as the single programming document, and all others previously negotiated with the Commission, in this mandate, and we have had to accept the leaky way of drawing funds. We have tried it with those measures that did not interfere with these system documents, including to correct, optimize, in this sense also speed up, and if we look at the end of 2004 or the beginning of 2005, when there was virtually no drawing on this drawing segment, today we can see that Slovenia is in the drawing of funds - and here we are comparing ourselves with other European countries, probably the only relevant and meaningful comparison and not least, these are not our comparisons to avoid misinterpretation, but these are the data provided to us by the Commission. And I must say that as far as this part is concerned, we are in the area of structural funds between the leading members as regards the drawing-up of European funds. That means we're not just going to draw on these assets, we're going to estimate 95%, but we're planning 99%, 100%. In short, we want these funds to be pumped into cells and, in this direction, there are still forecasts across the individual sector ministries. And if we make a comparison on this segment with other countries, then it must be said that we are, for example, on the European Regional Fund, which is the largest in this part of the financial framework, third among all Member States. We have only Sweden and Ireland ahead of us. And if we are talking about the whole mass as regards structural funds, then we are among the leaders or among the first, as regards the new members, because there is a slightly poor result on the social fund and also partly on fisheries and agriculture, where there are smaller resources, but there is also a link with the specificities of projects and the large fragmentation of these projects - which means that it was also a legacy from the past, this great fragmentation, which we have not won in this Government in this way - and there is a substantial number of efforts needed to make things run. And I must admit that, given the situation we have inherited, we also have a number of or some problems in the individual segments where we coordinate, we are further negotiating with the Commission. Once again, however, we estimate that we will fully implement this programme. So if we are talking about an existing financial perspective, we cannot in any case say that Slovenia is drawing this poorly, that there is a bad situation here, but quite the opposite. The comparisons made with the comparable countries of the European Union show that Slovenia is here among the leading countries. It is true, however, that a number of measures, many efforts, had to be taken at this time, so that we could speed these things up and get the picture as far as we could. With regard to this financial perspective of the Cohesion Fund, the situation is such that all the funds in terms of approved projects are fully exhausted there, which means that all the projects on the Commission are approved. Due to the known complications that have been the subject of public procurement procedures, especially in the areas where these procedures are run by the municipalities, we also know as regards the legislation in this segment, I think that two or three other municipalities have not completed the proceedings at this time. But according to my information, these procedures should also be in the final phase, so that these projects will also be approved in time. And, as I have already mentioned, the implementation of projects and the drawdown from this title goes back to 2010 as the final year; of course, I am talking about the Cohesion Fund. Of course, it is not our intention to go to a game in this story or in this area, for it is not a game. The aim is to draw on the resources to be devoted to the objectives and objectives most needed in Slovenia and to help further in this respect, as regards the next development breakthrough in this area as well or contribute to this work. And the goal, as I have already mentioned, is that the funds will be fully exhausted. I hope and I believe that we will also fully succeed. However, I am sure that we will be as successful as we were in the past. Finally, I must also say that the funds from the pre-accession assistance from ISPA were reclassified after we entered the European Union, even formally into cohesion funds, because by then these projects had not been implemented, so that we can pour ourselves pure wine. Well, now I'd go to a new financial perspective. Here Slovenia has been extremely successful in negotiating. The volume of resources is about four times higher than in the past period when it comes to annual quotas. When we talk about cohesion policy, for this period of 7 years and 7 plus 2 years of 4.2 billion euros, I am speaking, of course, about European work. As far as own participation is concerned, it can be highly dependent. Here we went to the extent that Slovenia's own participation in particular areas should also be the minimum necessary in the municipalities. As regards preparations for this next financial perspective, it must be said that at this point we have completed virtually all preparations in this operational sense. This means that we have formally confirmed both operational programmes on these main three operational programmes, i.e. on the basis of strengthening regional development potentials, the financial most difficult, and the development of the environment and transport infrastructure. These operational programmes were confirmed by the Commission immediately after the summer. And I think that among the around 450 operational programmes that the Commission has to verify, these two were also among the first, so to speak, I think that the first quarter of these operational programmes have been confirmed. As regards the third operational programme, the development of human resources, it has now been fully coordinated, it has already been confirmed, and we will also formally make some other procedures in this regard in terms of the presentation of this programme in the coming days. As regards this part of the negotiations, it must be said that these negotiations were not solely dependent on Slovenia. These documents had to be properly coordinated, negotiated within Slovenia, inter-sectorally, and regionally, as well as with the municipalities that bear this, including with a number of other civil society institutions that also participate in these funds in individual orientations. And, of course, they also needed to be harmonised and negotiated with the European Commission. And it was not possible to do this in one day because it was a process, and this dynamic was not only up to us, but it was also up to the European Commission. However, as I have already mentioned, we estimate that we have also carried out all the procedures between those first Member States. And, of course, from this point of view, since such procedures or documents have been confirmed in this phase, it is unrealistic to expect from a new financial perspective this year, anyone who has ever engaged in design work that has been involved in the implementation of projects can know that it is unrealistic to expect that we will have a large amount of drawing from this title this year, that is impossible. Whoever has implemented a specific project at any time, personally as mayor, I have had quite a few in my history, it is quite clear that the lifetime of the project lasts three, four, five years depending on the size and scope of the project. And because of this, it is true that the ministries were probably at the time when they planned the 2008 budget and 2007 budget, which is often spoken here this year, and because they did not know how fast the negotiations would end at that time, they probably had some pre-optimistic plans for 2007 and here, of course, I can agree. With regard to the next two years, 2008 and 2009, budget planning is also in terms of the European component of the acquisition of these funds, according to my assessment, of course, the individual ministries are competent for each area, because it is necessary to exhaust them in the area of cohesion policy of all of these 4.2 billion euros over the next seven years and it is likely to be necessary to add funds from agricultural policy, which I think are also for about 1 billion and then it is normal to come on average to such numbers as are currently in the budget in the coming years. And because they have already started procedures this year, and public calls are under way at this point, at this point in time, they are, for example, in the development segment of the regions, because municipalities as project managers are already, there are also individual claims in those cases, because they are faster, it is clear that pumping in the next year will be essential, significantly different. I believe that the ministries have planned this picture of themselves, this forecast of theirs is realistic, it would be worrying if there was no realisation in the coming year, but in this part I can agree, but the forecasting of the realisation with regard to all the resources available from a time-frame and from a dynamic point of view of the process may, in my opinion, be such that it is real, and I repeat that it is the responsibility of individual ministries in those parts where, or on the other hand, the municipalities in which the implementation of these projects is carried out. And at least as far as this work is concerned, we know that this year, I will not know how great a reality will be. I would also point out this, perhaps it is pointless to assess the use of European funds only over a very short period of time, especially if you choose that time period for which it is absolutely clear that there can be no drawing at all. It makes sense to look at all the weather reflections, not least it was presented here that the Phare projects were implemented 95%, yes, they were, and thanks to those who carried it out. And that is why we also estimate that the EPD will also be realized at this height. But this will be known next year at the end of the year, the forecasts speak precisely about this and that funding in the area of cohesion projects, where individual projects where big projects are similarly realized, will be carried out. But if you take the first quarter of a year from one seven - year or seven plus two nine - year period this year, it is clear that the results are the same as they are, because they cannot be different. Whoever's dealing with the realisation of the projects is clear. However, once again, I repeat, it would be worrying if there were no realisation to be announced in the next two years. And also as regards project planning, the tenders that have been made, specifically in our service, are no longer one-year calls. But they are stretched out for a three - year period, just because projects can be more realistically planned, that municipalities are not put into some time pressure and then bad solutions are drawn and there are significantly more problems. And then the realization of these projects can be significantly easier, easy. It is true, however, that with or now a longer period than the previous period, it is significantly easier and possible to do so. And when we talk about the size of the projects. In operational programmes, which are the basis for drawing on European funds as implementing documents, we have a combination of both large projects and complementary smaller projects. Because, otherwise, if we had large projects themselves, such as highways, that individual municipalities or associations of municipalities, because the municipalities usually unite in projects, would not have practically had access to European funds, which would be a great harm. This is why the combination of these projects is made from a combination of large projects, for example in the area of economic centres we have 9 large economic centres, as large projects, and then we have complementary projects from the development of regions, which are not so small, since the lower limit of these projects is limited to EUR 600 000, as smaller complementary projects with which municipalities can enter these networks, such as for smaller zones and all other infrastructure and other projects under this heading. It is not true that there have not been many very small projects in the past period, in fact there are areas of work, including agriculture, many small ones, where practically thousands go and actually cause considerable problems from the administration's point of view. However, this should cover the full range of content to be drawn from this heading. If I were to take this point, then I could not agree in any way that, with regard to drawing on European funds, that Slovenia is in a bad situation here, it is the other way around. The existing financial perspective, the data that are relevant and accessible on the Commission and also the statements of European representatives speak of Slovenia being among the leaders. True, we have made many efforts, including through the bad heritage we had. It is true that there are still some problems that individual audits show us, but these are audits from the end of 2004, early 2005 and for a system that we could no longer change, from calls that we could no longer change, because they were made at the time, and we are now further substantiating these things on the Commission, in this way that we are defending our positions, so we are also defending the previous government if you want, and that all of these shortcomings in the system that have been tried to address in the appendix for this new system. And, of course, I also assess and I am sure, and I see no reason why, even in this new financial perspective, Slovenia would not have successfully absorbed these funds in this 7-year period in view of the 9-year period. It also makes sense to draw them out as soon as possible, because, of course, in a developmental sense, this brings additional effects as quickly as possible. And the dynamics that are presented in some way, even through the budget, for which individual ministries are responsible, as planners of these funds, are in some ways also meaningful and logical, given how projects can be driven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. But the fact is, only reality counts, doesn't it? Procedurally, Comrade Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u72	Procedurally, allow me first to thank the Minister for having made it to the National Assembly. But given what the minister said, I'm making the next procedural proposal. The Minister said that, in 2007, he could agree that the realization would not be as planned. I even think that the Minister himself probably agrees that the 471 million currently announced realizations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are highly overestimated because so far some 199 million euros have been drawn. At the same time, the minister said one more, even more important thing: "Only at the end of 2008 will we see how the 2008 plan will be implemented, and it is not my fault, the ministries have planned it." The Minister for Local Self-Government and Local Development is not sure how the ministries planned. The Minister of Finance invited Minister Zhagar to say so here. I propose whether all ministers come to explain, each for their own area, or whether the President of the Government here tells us how we have so much discrimination between the text of the budgetary memorandum where the President of the Government, I suppose, signed under it, says that the revenue will be on average 1.56% of the gross domestic product, and that is little; we have calculated EUR 480,500 million; and in 2009 you wrote that this revenue will be 880 million. Or else, Mr. Jagar. If we have negotiated for about 5 billion money in the new financial perspective and if we have principle N+3, 5 billion divided by 10 and on average we are still on the annual average of about 500 million euros. Not 880 million euros. So, who's kidding who? But, Mr. Zhagar, you are being misled by ministers, first of all for 2007 you have been misled. You're saying it's not possible to draw on all this, but let's take a look at the documents from 2006. In the 2006 documents, you said: "Since 2007 is the first year of the next financial perspective, we will also start drawing money from this period" and you went with very high, too high expectations. Today you say, "realisation will not be 471," it is no longer clear who is responsible here. The Minister shall speak to other ministers, Minister of Finance of the Minister of Žagar. I suggest, my procedural proposal is that the President of the Government clarify the sobriety and seriousness of these forecasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Every Member, procedurally, has the right to explain his proposal within three minutes. I cannot take the right and suspend it prematurely until it has formulated its proposal. However, a colleague of Borut Saiovic has previously applied to the Minister's implementation, and since he was the only debater before the Minister, the Minister's criticism of the predecessor concerns him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I fully agree with you and my debate was in no way intended as a criticism of your work. I look ahead, I draw on it, I assess it, we have enough resources, but I point out in the debate the 2009 budget to the public financial problem that we will have. Cohesion is ending in 2010 and the cohesion project will be successfully completed if the municipalities are not bankrupt. And that's all I'm afraid of, and please, if I understood you correctly when you said the picture wasn't so black. Does this mean that in 2010 we can count on additional funds for the municipalities that we went to cohesion projects? For me, the picture is very black if I have a budget of 7 million euros a year. But before I buried it with my first bagel or my first shovel, I can see EUR 5 million in additional funds. For me, I'm sorry, for a serious and responsible mayor, the painting is catastrophically black. And I'd be very happy if you can give me an argument right now that I'm wrong. Tell me that at least half of these missing funds will be provided to me by one or another or by the third Ministry, and then I will leave most happy today after this debate from the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. And the debate, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u76	Thank you. Once again, a very brief explanation, including on the implementation of Mr Squill. Now it's not the M+3 general rule, but the M+2 rule, or the first three years, I think rule M+3, but I'm talking about the new financial perspective. As for the new financial perspective, I repeat, once again, when ministries planned this year's budget, 2007 has not yet had a complete picture, because we have not yet concluded negotiations with the European Commission. And it's also some real basis for them to be able to, just to be a little more optimistic about things. As far as the dynamics of drawing on these funds are concerned, it is logical, in some way, to follow such a curve, especially because the flight is less, there are 7+2, so that in recent years things need to be settled as soon as possible and it is logical that it is possible to draw funds in the first period, but it is not possible in the first year and then, in some way, after my assessment of this number, they are real. [[...]] Of course, it would be easier for each ministry to explain each ministry. However, as regards existing financial perspectives, projects are approved there. I think you're talking about this project. The next Ministry is the Ministry of Environment and Space. As for the participation of the municipalities, I think that by substantially correcting the financial picture of the municipalities, we have made this participation a little easier for the municipalities, since it is easier to use these additional funds for investments. It is true that now it would be very difficult to comment on individual projects especially because they are not within our competence, but are within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. However, I am sure that we must all work together and also make this project a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Can we continue on the basis of the list of applicants? Thank you very much. I call to the floor the Member of the Christian Janec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! With this draft budget 2009, I have no problems like some previous speakers who see so much black in the future of 2009 and know exactly what will happen in 2009. And they accurately predict how the performance of that time will be carried out in the framework of 2009. This is a long view that only some of the most capable have. Secondly, what I would say proves once again today's debate by some of my predecessors' colleagues that it is good to have mayors in the parliamentary benches who daily face such problems and problems that they see from another point of view, like those in practice, in life, what is going on in an area, whether it be a congregation or another institution. What my predecessors said is very true. We know well that this draft budget that we have today, that this Government, I believe that this Government, or any new Government, will certainly change a lot more. We all know this well, that this will happen when this matter takes place at the right time, and that the provincial legislation will certainly mix the cards very much within the budget lines, which we are formally proposing today for adoption in 2009. It is also true that these things are being prepared today and that this is also being discussed. We lose so many words for some things I don't think they hold. A lot of injustice has been said about the debt. I do not think that Slovenia is the country where this concern would be alarming, how much it is owed to the resident, how much public debt it is. Data exist, European statistics are probably not lying, and I think that this comparability is accessible to everyone. Take a look at the list of countries to which we like to compare ourselves, and compare this information with how much debt is per capita in Slovenia and in successful countries comparable to Slovenia in the EU, and you may find it a little easier at heart. We've been talking about inflation for two days. It's good that some of you can criticize, criticise what should be, and so on. We all know that inflation is not what we want it to be. We all know that if we are right and honest, that it also has external influences, why it is so great. Oil, grain, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Probably what I explained yesterday, I hope that all the best things will happen, including by the Government, all the internal possible measures to stop or reduce this trend, that this moment of political attack will also be put in place for you in the sense that this inflation is calming down. This is certainly the wish of everyone in this House, not just coalitions or positions. As far as pumping is concerned, the attack that the 1.9. was a poor reality. Yes, but if we know this practice normally, it usually happens much more in 9, 10, 11 and 12 years to close, close, and then the items will certainly be corrected in terms of drawing in favour of the proposed figures in the budget. But it's always a stranger. Those who deal with and deal with such matters know that something is usually planned and that goal needs to be achieved. In the meantime, there are certainly many obstacles, many problems and problems, some of which have already been warned by my fellow mayors about where they will be trapped, such and different, and how difficult it is. Believe me, drawing from cohesion funds is also an extremely difficult area. Believe me, it is necessary to prepare extremely good projects, real projects that are not only local but also regional. That such projects need to be found within the region, within the local community, excellently prepared, applied for and then waited for positive results. However, here is the main problem that plagues many Slovene municipalities, certainly the smaller, financially weaker ones, these are their own resources. Own resources follow these major projects, which, thank God, are being implemented or are not yet in line, and so will they, and they need to be financially coordinated. This is not easy for any budget that still has such and different obligations, but also for those that are carried out in certain municipalities in accordance with investments. So there are certain problems here, and there are likely to be some problems for certain congregations to close those expected sums of resources and bring that money into their own, such and other municipal projects. This does not apply only to Slovenian municipalities, but also to all other institutions that apply to such calls and wish to bring this European resource into their home. But when this success comes to an end, you have managed to meet all these European, Brussels standards, which are extremely demanding, bureaucratic, and then there is a call for proposals - a new story, a new leaf. You have calls that, at this time, when we know that the market is saturated, especially those that are saturated with many projects carried out in the Slovenian space, there is a small circle of service providers and operators, and when this circle rises, the price of services is automatically also higher, because if there is a lower demand for work, the price of these services is certainly significantly higher. Then follow the complaints, the appeal procedure based on the law, the audit and so on. And it happens that it can last a year from the project obtained to the final signing of the contract. New year, new story, new stuff, and we're back on track. Well, it's not as simple and simple as it sounds. And in the end, blaming the government for everything, it's not going to work. The project holders are those who are the main responsible, one is the municipalities, certainly, Slovenian, and the other institutions which have the possibilities here. Of course, the government coordinates all of this, thank God, but it is not all the fault of the Government if one Slovenian municipality or province or region does not make use of the quota for such and other projects; whether it will not prepare them or prepare them for bad or not provide its own resources. And once again, it will be the government's fault because it has not successfully absorbed all those quotas or expected resources. So basically, the story isn't completely black, but there's still a lot of factors and "teas" if anything doesn't happen. In short, I believe that this 2009 budget seems to me to have some good extensions, that it is positive, that it goes in the direction of development that this investment cycle, which is extremely large, you have to admit, whether you want it or not. As much as it is being built in this Slovenia today, it is never my opinion that it is. And this is good, this is good, and from this point of view I see that the emphasis is also on protecting the environment, the economy and also building new apartments and similar matters, which is important for our joint development of Slovenia. Finally, it is also important that a lot of investment is made in research, technological development and so on. However, I think that the needs are much greater than my colleague said before me, in the field of water fund, watercourses and many other projects, which are larger items in this budget, are more money earmarked, but probably not enough for actual needs. It is true that no government can influence natural disasters in advance what will happen in 2008, 2009, despite the acceptance of items, reserves for natural disasters. But here we are always affected, and I believe that even these major disasters that have occurred recently in Slovenia will be tried to overcome the great problems that the municipalities have experienced with these floods in the framework of the 2008 and 2009 budget. I hope this money too; I don't hope - I know!; that this money is quite something in these budgets 2008 and 2009 and that this recovery will continue in 2008, 2009, and probably also in 2010 and some years later. For this was a great disaster, and no budget, nor Slovenia, can provide in one year all these figures, which were estimated damages, at one time. That would just take it slow, go ahead. In short, I hope that this Slovenia, as well as this Government, will continue with this, with the help of our economy with successful economic growth, which is of course an important element of the story, and will create the best possible conditions for this economy to continue to be a friendly and successful economy in the future, so that even less unemployment, which is now relatively successful, data suggests that this unemployment is one of the lowest, that we will continue to reduce public spending, which is very important, and especially an extremely complex and challenging area, to reduce the deficit and, of course, continue with this investment cycle. So in the roads we're talking so much about today, we were up against them yesterday, some of them, you were, but today you support that this is a good investment, that this is a real development component, that we need to develop and invest in new investments, road infrastructures like this and different, and I think that this thing needs to continue. I hope that the government and everyone who has anything to do with this story will do anything, as I said, that inflation will at least stop if it doesn't fall a little. That is why there are measures that are already under way and will be. Of course, it will be necessary, even without external influences, for all this will be difficult for the government itself, because those measures are also extremely important. Finally, in Brussels, we are praised many times as a successful country, which has somehow found itself on this European parquet with good results. At home in Parliament, however, we are hearing a systematic criticism of something that is not valid, and the best measures taken by this Government, which are positive for the well-being of all citizens, are systematically criticized by some, that they are not valid and that they are worthless. In my opinion this is not true and I think that if only actions are considered acts in life, it is considered empty and big words and, above all, saying what would have been, and what would have been, what would have been, what would have been, it is certainly no longer political than a flossula, which may have a certain goal to attack even those best-arranged projects in Slovenia that give success to all those living in this beautiful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Member Martin Mikolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u80	Thanks again for saying that. Whether financial resources are planned in real terms to be drawn from the European Union in 2008 and, above all, in 2009, I would say the following. It is true that there are problems this year, mainly because a new financial perspective is included, but I firmly believe that the indicators do not show a real picture by September, which will be the end of the year, given that, in fact, certain claims will come from either local communities or from individual ministries in this last quarter. Secondly, I would say, look at when we will, if not in the year ahead of us 2008 and 2009, draw maximum financial resources, if not in these years, according to the cut for the next financial perspective, as planned in the budget. I also agree with everyone that it is not easy to prepare all the necessary documentation, or projects that really need to be such projects, which will also have certain effects after implementation, and if we are talking about projects that are being reported by individual ministries or local communities, it is not easy, but I am sure that in these years we have only learned, but we have the ability of people to prepare and I am sure that if I am speaking to local communities now, but that these are not now one year projects and that what the Minister of Local Self-Government has said earlier this year that we have applied for three years of reflection, that is to say, three years of projects, 2007, 2008 and 2009, will be a call back in spring, whether they are development funds, again for three years of reflection and I do not see any problems here that local communities would not have projects that meet all the conditions, but it is not just a project. It is necessary to prepare investment documentation, which is very important, and there should be no mistakes, so that then this Commission rejects this, and on the other hand, the project needs to be implemented in the light of the timetable and, at the final stage, you know, that Europe is only a master or that it wants to be a good master and, in fact, these controls are for this purpose. The Commission shall then also review whether the documentation is in accordance with the rules, as well as whether the implementation is carried out as it is required and that it is also excusable that the money was specifically intended. But these are now these projects that mean investments. You know, what was said earlier by one of the Members, in 1998, 1999 or Phare, and Sapard by 2002, 95% of the use or use of European funds has been exhausted, and what is being done today is a comparison such as saying the regulation of a village road or a local road or highway, and we cannot compare it, a respected colleague and colleague. But here we just have to be realistic, alone or our congregation has been involved with Phare projects, and we know that what I can say is a theory, but what we are doing today is a practice, but investment projects are not comparable, not by quantity, not by quality, if I am speaking from a financial point of view. I'm sure the level of funding for 2008 is real. The volume of funding for 2009 is also said to double and, given that certain projects have started to be implemented already this year, it is true that in 2008, 2009 will be completed, which means that 2009 will be able to draw on the largest amount of funding or funding that is planned or planned, and on the basis of this, it is also realistic that there is so much funding in the budgets, but of course everyone, if I may say so, now the contractors will do so. And if this is done in individual ministries, if there are local communities, there are other entities in the back, then that will certainly be the case. I will certainly support the 2009 budget, because I believe that it is development-oriented, that it is well-prepared and that the budget, which includes all that has been done in terms of either amending tax legislation and other laws, which certainly have an impact or impact on the preparation of the budget for 2009, will also be one of the good reflections, if I may say so or the condition that certain investments will also be made in 2009, those that are planned in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much. And I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. For quite some time, it has been used to argue or prove how successful Slovenia is, how successful Slovenia is in drawing on European funds. But just as Minister Zhagar used to say, it's not fair. It's not fair. You know, the data show, and this is the reality, the practice that you mentioned, the respected colleague before me, that Slovenia had absorbed in the first ten months, from January to October only 5% in the social sector, from the social structural fund. Can we really boast about this information before the European Union, on the fact that Europe reminds us that we are weak in this area, that we need to improve ourselves? I would like to hear the information from the Minister, how much does Slovenia actually pay more in the European budget than it gets from it? We are weak, not only in the social field, but also in other areas, except where direct funding is, not through the individual ministry. And we're a little better there. I would also like to see in which areas - regionalisation is seen in the budget. The President of the Government himself said that the regionalisation project, because the legislation has not yet been fully adopted, could not be the basis for the budget. Because some of you have talked about how much funding will be transferred to future provinces; we do not even know what the provinces will be. Are these estimates just as far across the thumb as Minister Žagar, I don't know, designed new landscapes? When he was sitting at the meeting, he said, "Yeah, the Bears will go to the Zawab region or to the Rippers." Well, that's a joke. This is a bad policy if the budget is based on such work, respected colleagues and colleagues. I listened to Minister Virant in his reports this morning when he said that the demands of the customs officers were, and I will now move on to the area of social wages, that the requirements of the customs officers at their strike are actually greed. I'm asking or I'm asking? Are the demands of prison workers, security guards, guards also greedy because they warn that they have unsustainable conditions and catastrophically low wages? Is it possible that the Minister of Justice replied that the demands for increased spiritual care in prisons would result in a renewed or substantial increase in employment in this area? I have the minister's reply or reply to my question; and that the payment of a person who provides spiritual care is as high as three times the salary paid by the guard in prison, and I believe that he has a much more difficult job. Today I am even reading in the newspaper that Minister Karl Erjavec, the president of that party who boasted in Parliament when she announced the obstruction of the adoption of the Religious Freedom Act, will sign the same minister or president of the same party a second Vatican agreement that will further increase employment in the field of spiritual care in the military, police and so on. Tell me where the funds are for the signing of the new Vatican Agreement. Where's that piece? I didn't find it. On the other hand, I would like to point out that when I read the explanation for the 2009 budget in particular in the field of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for religious communities. I read that this office also receives financial resources to provide information of a public nature. But by the Minister of Finance, who, I believe, wrote this text or co-formed the text, the 2009 budget, there can be no answer to the question of how the financial situation of one religious community is in our country. No, because he says that this religious community is not a budget user. But if you look at the items in the 2009 budget, you will see from how many items are actually used to fund the functioning of religious communities. Why did I mention employment earlier, respected colleagues and colleagues? Because we have drawn attention to the Constitutional Court's decision in the framework of the parent's working body, it is specifically about disability, the protection of work centres, which I believe you know are dealing with persons with disabilities. At that time, we drew attention to this decision, which made it clear that our country does not meet the standards in this area. In order to increase the capacity or on the one hand such employed personnel, and on the other hand also users, of course, because waiting periods are higher from day to day. But there wasn't a minister on the board at the time. At the time, he was her deputy. The Secretary of State said no. No way. The government doesn't have the money for that. We will not increase the option, nor will we further fund under the budget of the needs that have arisen in our society in the field of disabled persons. Even for the elderly, we no longer follow the reality of the situation in our country. But on the other hand, we see that we are increasing financial resources to provide spiritual care in various areas. Is that fair? This is fair when, on the one hand, he is actually suffering from social suffering and on the other hand, we are increasing funding due to some difficulties or some always new requirements under the ever-new Vatican agreements. I ask you what the next Vatican agreement will be and what it will commit our country to. You know, what we did a while ago is that we actually have double standards in our country, or two legal orders - one, one that we are committed to by all taxpayers, or not all taxpayers, but those who are honest or honest. The other legal order is for only one entity, an entity which is not even bound to provide information of a public nature. That's not fair. And if such a budget is very developmental, tell me what development our country will experience in 2009, in which areas we will develop. [[The ad in the hall.]] It's going to be 6% growth. Will Slovenian citizens and citizens, with respect for Mr Petan, feel this 6% economic growth? They will feel it as they feel it today, so the sentences were a good week in Ljubljana. Because today customs officers strike because they feel 6% growth or 4.3% growth. Good trip, Mr. Petan. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Please don't answer from the bench. On the basis of the list of applicants, Member Aurelio Juri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I did not intend to come forward in this debate, but I did hear some things that, however, encouraged me to say something. First, let us be careful when we refer to Brussels, praising our economic and financial achievements. The reproof of Almunie was spoken, so be careful with these statements. Otherwise, I would like to join the calls already addressed to the Government, in particular to individual ministers, to come to the meeting and join them, as Minister Žagar had just responded to some of the discussions. I particularly miss Mr. Secretary of Defense. And I am also joining the warnings of the President of the Defence Committee, Comrade Anderlic, when he drew attention to the imbalance between the anticipated purchases, between the equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the entire defence system and the actual situation in the Slovenian Army, in particular with regard to investments in people. In front of us are new programmes that not only cost a lot of taxpayer money, but also open up big, new investments and a lot of spending in the coming years. Let me just say, there wasn't a lot of talk about buying a transport plane. This is not only EUR 30 million as much as this aircraft will cost, but the whole system for keeping such an aircraft in use, infrastructure, equipment, crew education and so on, as will be shown in the following budgets. The ship was mentioned. These days, yesterday, we heard of new purchases, which we also did not talk about on a competent committee. For some new expensive armored men, for RCBO fighting and so on. So it would be good to see, when this imbalance in large systems and the defence budget is one of the richest and most difficult, both in 2008 and 2009 to receive responses and responses from the Ministry of Defence to our warnings. Otherwise, we will convene emergency meetings, and not so often, and we will hear that we are disrupting the normal functioning of the government, of course, just to find out how much the public cash will cost. And it's not right, it's not right here today, and I don't see the Secretary of State at the Defence Ministry that this is not our question, that our responses are not answered by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. My colleague Aurelio Juri, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, promised us the presence of ministers in an act called "Review of the cooperation of representatives of the Government of Slovenia", and stated them all in a row, but that is not the case. However, Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u86	I, too, have been encouraged by the debate of the other Members to come by myself. The diametric opposite claims actually come in this House, what is true, what is not true, what is deserved, what is deserved by the other. Well, the notorious fact is that unemployment in Slovenia has decreased significantly over the last two, three years, even before. And that is certainly what Slovenia and the Slovenians can do with courage. Economic growth is higher than ever before. Now we wonder what the effect of economic growth is. First of all, any economist, or anyone knows that the effect of economic growth is to increase the number of jobs. This is definitely the effect that it has on this. It may also have some others, as far as it goes directly to increase jobs, but it is a question. Either it's going to be better wages or a higher number of jobs less paid. This, of course, is also a matter of state regulation. Greater employment, increased employment is a result of economic growth and liveliness, which is influenced by state policy, government policy, the policy of the former government and also by the situation in Europe. Employment of disabled people, this has also been shown to be about 60% higher employment. One part is economic growth, and the other part is direct action, i.e. the quota system, which was implemented within the mandate of this Government. Relaxation with regard to the strict definition of forgiveness and, on the other hand, encouragement is what goes in the direction of flexibility in the employment of young people. The number of unemployed young people has decreased, also directly due to measures taken in favour of employment. We wonder, of course, whether that was enough or not. Retirement coordination. Please calculate what pensions the pensioners would have today if the system were in force before harmonisation, before the first measure adopted by the Government or the amendment of legislation. Do the math. I'm not suggesting anything. Any citizen can figure it out. However, I would ask the Ministry of Labour and the Government to give clear information out what would have happened if we had a system of coordination as regulated in the previous government mandate. In fact, at the time of its adoption, the opposition claimed that this would undermine the budget's strength, which was extremely rich at the expense of a generation. Now you're actually saying that pensions are too small. Not to mention fertility. I don't know if this Government or the previous Government has had a greater impact on this fertility, but on fertility, the more public opinion, the more the spirit that translates society rather than the material measures themselves, although I fully agree that you have to be generous about family policy if you want to reap on long lines. And as far as family policy is concerned, changes have been made. These are these things and these changes, which could allow some interesting steps to be taken in a policy decision in advance. And that is, to respond to the biggest challenges, this is an ageing society. That's what I wanted to point out. Whether this budget is designed to accept and respond to these challenges. I've given one single case, one single proposal, one single amendment in this direction, probably not enough, but it's useful and necessary, so more funds to build a home for the elderly. Currently in Slovenia, I think it is waiting for about 4 or 5,000, I will not know exactly the data, but I certainly have not been mistaken waiting for a home for the elderly. And in this light, there was also an amendment. It is not true that my amendment was not properly and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, it was tabled three times earlier, but there was no understanding that it would be accepted in order to provide those 5 million funds and to start perhaps three public-owned homes in the coming year. With a third work, perhaps in 2009 and with private funds, maybe up to 400,500 capacity, in addition to private investment. And that move seems incomprehensible to me. If the government had anything personal against me, don't do it. But if she didn't have it, then there's no reason why she gave it up. The amendment was tabled three times: on the home committee, on the financial committee, in my position as the proposer himself. I believe and admit that in the last round, when I was eliminated three times, I was no longer qualified to do so and should be one of the groups of Members. I think that the initiative was by two or three parliamentary groups to put this into effect. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I want to talk about. The results of the government are good, but this wind, which is in these sails, should also be used for these movements, to move to the society that we are moving, in order to respond in a timely manner. Not when we're under pressure. That's my key point.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Member Stanek Pike. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I did not intend to come forward, but given that a lot of half-truths and non-truths have been said and that the debates are very trendy and are focused on future elections. And that's why I stopped by. Prognosis is very bleak, so we can say systemic blindness. If I didn't know these forecasts years ago, two, three years ago, when he was, say, a fellow Squill, I could name him, predict the collapse of the state treasury budget, because we raised one pension for the pensioners, that's why. Actually, it's gonna be over. And none of this has happened; pensions are paid regularly; cash registers are sustainable. The same was true of VAT. There were forecasts, VAT will rise by 2.3 percentage points. That's not what happened. And if any of this happened, I might even believe something. That's why I have to say this moment that I don't believe in total nothing he's saying. The Prophet is the one who guesses something, not the one who guesses nothing. The prophet also had to replace the city because they did not believe him in their hometown. Yeah. Now around pumping. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Yeah, that's what I said. [[...]] It's around pumping. They say, "The budget is too much." Yes, the budget must be sufficiently set, ambitious, so that we can draw on European funds. Because, in principle, Europe is giving us funds in shares. This means that you must participate in the project yourself, because if you do not participate in the project, Europe does not believe that this project is good either. She's so smart. Because if you want to participate in the project, the obvious thing is that you have to have money, where you want to take it differently, if you're a local community, or if this project is from a country level, than from a budget. There's no other way for a colleague. It just doesn't work. And of course, projects and investments are also an additional engine of inflation, but we can ask ourselves what would be better if we had zero inflation, zero economic growth and a lot of unemployment - is that better? I say, thank you, no. Thanks for the development. It is better to have a little more inflation and high economic growth. That's what Ireland did, and then what? Today it is one of the most developed, most developed countries in Europe. There was a lot of talk about inflation. You know that oil prices are up and can't affect Slovenia, it can't affect food prices. However, it is right that Slovenia, or as a country, should take all sharp measures in areas where it can influence. And that is what I hope our government will also do with restrictive policies in this area. I'd like to add something else from a social point of view. As little unemployment as we have now, we haven't had it - it's below 5%. My friend Petty Officer's already cut a lot of numbers, or I would, but I'm not going to repeat it. I can also say: success, many young people up to the age of 30, up to the age of 28 after statistics is employees. A significantly lower percentage of unemployed young people were unemployed than they were three years ago. That's also an achievement. Well, we don't give ourselves the benefit of the doubt that we've accomplished all of this. At least on the ground and so forth. But, dear fellows, it will not be so black-sighted and it will all go to waste if the Government has a good budget and a developmental budget. That's not how it works. Personally, I think the budget is good, developmental and I support it. I did not table amendments myself, and I think it is good for all Slovenians and that it will finally be useful for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u90	I'm having fun because basically the same argument repeats itself with different intensities. But Mr Pike had a very interesting tone, so it's worth talking about. He was talking about the prophets. As for the prophecy, we confirmed and said that the meeting was held on 12 August 2005. At this meeting, as you heard last night in the Hot Chair, the takeover of the work that has now ended in some way poorly for Mr Janez Janša. And here's what we're going to do about our retirement plans. We have proposed an amendment with which all, not only those who have the highest pensions, would have more out of prosperity, because you have voted a law that aligns pensions, as it is called, linearly according to the so-called wage growth. And what happened, Mr. Pike? Today, of course, you have higher pensions, but these are nominally higher in the upper property class of pensioners. But you have 120 thousand and so many pensioners who have 400 euros and fewer pensions. And instead of proposing coordination in 2005 that would bring more, you have created an imbalance, while at the same time proposing a law to stop the coordination of social assistance for these people, and you have not received higher social assistance for 23 months. And the situation is very simple, Mr Pajk, Member of the National Assembly, and all of us, Members of the National Assembly, and all of the state secretaries upstairs, have increased their net salaries by over 10% during the term of office of this government. In Slovenia, on average, wages have risen by 4.5% in the last year, pensions by 2% and social transfers by 23 months. These are the facts. And about young people. What young people think about the current policy has best shown the vote of young people for fellow Member Jelinčič. As the analyst said, it was the voice of the protest. But how many of these young people have regular jobs today, and it is a fundamental issue to look at. The situation today is much worse than it ever was. Whether we give the pensioners enough money or not, they're showing the data again. In 2004, 10.6% of GDP, in 2009, when prosperity was at its peak, or half a percent or 160 million euros less, was only 0.8% of GDP. So who do you share your wealth with? You're on your own!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u92	Thank you. If we are talking about budget and inflation in the Republic of Slovenia, then I think it is better that we do not put our heads in the sand and talk about how the price of oil is being auctioned on the world market, and we do not want to talk about the domestic situation at all, or at least the ruling part does not want to talk about it. And that is why I would like to draw attention to the following fact in this budgetary debate that it is not actually a logical, significant decline in agricultural processing in both the plant and livestock sectors. The fact is that the food processing industry also has significant financial problems and developmental downsides in this chain. And the fact is that we can quickly find out that Slovenia does not have sufficient food supply. This is some data that we should be very serious about when we adopt the budget and when we talk about inflation, because we have already heard a lot about how inflation depends on supply and demand. If there is not enough food supply in Slovenia, demand is clearly greater than we can produce and offer ourselves, and imports are also taking place in all agricultural areas or we import virtually all agricultural products. Of course, we certainly import them at a higher price than those agricultural products are sold in those countries from which they come to us. But obviously we don't want to talk about this, and I think that this is one of those key problems if we want to understand and understand why food is being irritated with us and why we can expect very high wage pressures and why this economic growth is not just economic growth, because of the success of businesses, but also because of the low wages of employees. If we do not answer all these questions, we will indeed have an inflationary spiral that we will not control, not only in 2009, which we are talking about in this budget, but in many years to come. And if I stay in the agricultural field. Look, a lot of assets and resources have been invested in agricultural cooperatives. What are these cooperatives doing today? They became co-owners of banks, manage and actually plan some kind of sale of agricultural crops and finally find that milk is exported to Italy rather than to domestic food processing industries or domestic dairy companies. And that's not what we're worried about. Tomorrow, when the food processing industry or the dairy industry is in serious trouble not to say even failing, we will be expensive to import and buy all these products from other countries. In short, everything that is being done within Slovenia in this area also has a major impact on inflation. And if we don't respond to these problems, sooner or later it'll hit us with even more costs. In all these discussions, which we are listening to, how the budget is balanced, how the deficit is manageable, how the 2009 budget does not actually have any problems and why the opposition is even warning it, however, I would like to reiterate somehow the warnings that I have already given to the Finance Committee, as well as during yesterday's debate with the amendments, that the National Assembly does not even know that we are building a courtroom in Slovenia, that we are building a palace for the Ministry of the Interior, that we are building a palace for the Ministry of the Environment, that we are building a palace for the Ministry of Agriculture to build a palace for the Ministry of Labour. All of this is not in the budget for 2008, nor for 2009 anywhere. I do not recall the adoption of the budget to invest so much money and so much of the facilities for the public administration. This is 200 million euro worth of investment, which is nowhere in these budgets or the euro. I ask whether this deficit for 2009, which is shown somewhere in the amount of EUR 125 million, is real, but when we have expenditure of EUR 200 million to invest in these public institutions. I think that the deficit shown is therefore not real and the budget as a whole is certainly not real. How and under what conditions, in fact, who will build all of this, we can see that the Government has entrusted a consulting and management company that should cease operating in July 2007. About half this year, this consulting and management company should stop operating. Although I can conclude that the procedure for consulting and managing this company is likely to be fully completed, it must carry out the liquidation procedure of the Slovenian Development Company and must assume all obligations for which creditors have not declared their claims in the liquidation process and any other obligations of the Slovenian Development Company in liquidation. I can only assume that all of this has really been closed and that these problems are no longer there and that the consulting and management company no longer guarantees all of these liabilities with its assets. If that is not the case, we are wondering if another open question is opening up to us. Can we trust the consulting and management company to actually build all these ministerial palaces with minimal costs and, above all, affordable prices? I think we must be aware that within the company's functioning for advice and management, there have already been very interesting events in its history when the Supervisory Committee of the Consulting and Management Society, led by Dr Edo Pirkmajer, approved a loan of EUR 150 000 to the director of this institution. Therefore, it was not necessary to enter the bank, it was not necessary to provide assurances, this company was granted to its Director or the Supervisory Committee had granted 150 000 Euros of credit, which means that we can seriously doubt the operation of the consulting and performance company, under which conditions the State will then repay or buy out all these facilities they build for those ministries. I think it would be right for the National Assembly to know these conditions, that we are aware of the obligations involved. If these obligations are not settled by the consulting and performance company, we must be aware that the sole owner and founder of this company is Republic of Slovenia. And it is certain that all its obligations, if anything gets stuck, will receive further consideration in the budgets, in the allocation of funds to cover such huge liabilities. Therefore, I think that the National Assembly should really have an answer to why all these government palaces are not included in the budget, why the deficits in these budgets are artificially shown to be significantly lower than they are because of these investments, why the National Assembly does not know, under what conditions these ministries will be buying all these palaces or what rents will be paid for these palaces and what impact this has on inflation together, because this is also an increase, an artificial increase in the expenditure side. And if I add to this the fact that the Government has invested in the procedure of provincial legislation, I do not see the logic of why we have to invest 200 million euros in new palaces for ministries of work, internal affairs, the environment, agriculture, education - all of this is being invested in - because we are in these laws or the government has written down that certain tasks will be transferred from country to country. I hope that in the end it will not all turn out so that all services will remain in Ljubljana, in these ministries, but in the provinces we will have only the headquarters of the worlds of the provinces and the most urgent services for administrative servicing of the functioning of the world of the provinces, and everything else will appear to be left in Ljubljana. I have to admit, I don't understand this kind of decision. I would understand that we are not deciding on new investments because the provinces will also bring real dispersion to the public services, greater proximity to all those who use or need the services of these services, and that, finally, Ljubljana will also be burdened by this huge traffic and all the problems it brings with it, from pollution of the environment to the provision of additional parking spaces, additional transport areas. Sometimes the city itself is already choking because of all this concentration of administration in the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. So it would really be worth explaining what is going on in the field of public finances in Slovenia and why, I think, for the first time in history, we are faced with the fact that we are building buildings over budget for all ministries. Last but not least, let's let the rest of us build this way, why would we be planning something in the budget at all, because the interest of public-private partnerships or public-private investments is certainly great to invest in facilities that will then be used by either the state administration or local administration or some public institution or public institution, because the mercenary is, after all, very sure or not at some risk of getting into any kind of trouble. If this is also the enforcement and implementation of the Law on Public-Private Partnership, then I do not think that we have done much to encourage the development of Slovenia by also investing private resources in order to meet all the needs that we as a country wish to meet in the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite Ambassador Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u94	Honourable Presidents and Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. Very briefly on the 2009 budget. In a way, I see no reason, given what is predicted to change in this year's year, that it is so thoroughly worked, unless this draft budget for 2009 is also a prophecy that any of what is now promised and predicted will not happen. If not, I hope that this is at least a prophecy that will not happen to the realization of Slovenia, as proposed at this time. From all the debates we've heard yesterday and today, there are some of these things that keep repeating. That the budget is not focused on equitable regional development. Some regions are completely abandoned. If we look at the amendments, some even take a word, some little thing, say. One road is taken to the Sava region and given somewhere else, although it is an artery that connects central Slovenia to the southeast. But it's just these little guesses that we're used to anyway. It's similar in the area of health. The money for the trebwell hospital has already dropped in last year, and there's no way he wants to condense where he's supposed to be. It is particularly clear from all these discussions that members of the coalition have decided mainly on a novelty, namely to interpel Mr Cwickl, who is not even a minister. About six, he had seven interpretations in those two days, and I congratulate him on his endurance. The second thing that has been seen at this time is that the incompatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions is in fact extremely problematic. That, in fact, it is still true that it should not be done by the same people. As far as European funds and drawback are concerned, we have not yet come to draw. Within nine months, the difference between what Slovenia has given in Europe and what it has received is 46 million euros. Thus, EUR 46 million of its own money needs to be recovered and then it will start to draw on European funds. That's how you say it at home. As for social or everything that is focused on human resources, I think this budget and this year too is very bad. Actually, that's not being targeted enough. It doesn't even target generations that are coming, or even less on those who are leaving or otherwise handicapped. Look at the case of the Slug of Maribor, so I won't just talk about Zasavje. There's a house built there, we have a real investment, it's also an economic growth, but it's not for people. It's not for employees, it's not for those who need care. That's how you can see it. I will not touch inflation, because here I feel that there should be other ministers, at least the Minister of Economy, who bears just as much responsibility, if not more than the Minister of Finance. Above all, I would like to see people sitting here who can answer questions answering questions. Not people who can only listen. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Comrade Gulic. Of course, I would like to inform the secretaries that they too can participate in the debate or in the concerns raised and questions raised. If you want, raise your hand, gladly, as did the speakers who called you to do so, we will listen to you. Thank you very much. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, my apologies for the slightly later accession to this session. Today there was a great deal of international, also yesterday, visit to the Defence Committee of the Republic of Austria, and I am just coming from a press conference of the Ministry of Defence, where we are presenting our work this year. I would like to speak to you about the extent of the financial resources allocated to the Ministry of Defence. In 2009, the projected volume of funding increases nominally compared to 2008, amounting to EUR 631 million. Given the high economic growth that exists in the country, the percentage of gross national product achieved by this increase is slightly lower than in the following year - 1.69%. The Republic of Slovenia must have identified a number of segments in its accession to the Alliance, as well as in its strategic documents in this area, particularly in the context of the Resolution on the General Long-term Development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, including the percentage and financial volume of funds and funds it will acquire in the years to 2015. The percentage that the Republic of Slovenia should achieve in the following year, according to these assumptions and commitments, is 2%. This percentage is expected to remain at 2% of gross national product until 2015 at the same level, according to these documents. The scope of funding is lower than those commitments, but we estimate that due to high economic growth this percentage of funding is to some extent real enough to enable the performance of the key tasks of the defence and protection system, or in this case, if this is the only percentage of the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that some of the capabilities that we have also planned with the medium-term defence programme will move towards achieving the objectives with a certain time frame. As in the annual budgets so far, percentages of gross national defence product have deviated from the planned and also from the funds and the percentage of gross national product provided by the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the funds that the Ministry acquires or makes individual announcements at the European Defence Agency. All the investments we make are carried out in accordance with the resolution on the overall long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces adopted by the National Assembly in 2004. One of the dilemmas that occurs here or has also been exposed is whether such a level of investment is still needed now, given that the Slovenian Armed Forces are facing a certain lack of staff in particular areas, particularly those targeted in 2007. Here I must say that, in the analysis of the preparation for professionalisation, it has been pointed out that there is a high likelihood that certain difficulties will occur in post-2005 in human resources completion, including with a view to reducing populations, as well as the fact that the first five-year contracts will expire. Contracts concluded in 2002 shall expire after five years and members shall either extend these contracts or not. There is also a certain outflow from the Ministry of Defence from the Slovenian Armed Forces due to the legal provisions governing specific arrangements in this area, both for the officer structure that achieves the conditions for retirement, and in particular for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces or soldiers and soldiers who are required to leave the Slovenian Army at the age of 45. The Declaration documents of the Alliance then provide that the countries will achieve 40% of the transfer forces that are primarily intended for operations in their land structure. All of our investments, which are consistent with the resolution on general long-term development, are mainly focused on the structure envisaged for participation in various crisis response operations. At the same time, I must point out that one of the elements that also makes it possible to provide very transparent and transparent and also long-term investment in the defence area is the Basic Development Programmes Act, which is now transparent because all the funds are in the budget and it is not about buying on credit. The defence system is specific, it cannot be built quickly, it cannot be put in place, especially not to be built in the sense that it is compatible in the Alliance and also to participate in the crisis response operation in the European Union operations, so we are assessing [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleagues! It is common for the budgetary debate, mainly by the opposition, to open up extremely broad content, to an extremely broad debate. The opposition is talking about buildings, talking about building roads that are too slow, even though it used to build highways even slower when it was in Vlad. They are talking about the wrong approach to solving the problem of the Slovenian Railways, although it did not touch on this issue at all when it was in the Government. He's talking about bad pensions, even though her formula, when she was still in the government, would make pensions much worse. But this is probably perfectly normal and these debates need to be heard and accepted. I'm worried about something else. I am concerned that there is virtually no discussion by the opposition or any concrete incentive for Slovenian families, for these walls of Slovenian society or Slovenian people. It builds up in the family, which probably makes us all united, lays the foundation of a citizen or a citizen's stick. Disruptions or shortcomings in family education that each should receive can never be compensated later. Demographic trends clearly show that the existence of the Slovenian people is threatened in the long term, as fertility has practically halved in recent decades. We argue that it is necessary to take time, and if we are in a budgetary debate, also money for the Slovenian family. And here I am pleased to note that this Government has a hearing for family policy, for a quality and positive family policy. If we just look at the item Child and family protection in the draft budget for 2009, we see a substantial increase in this item by about 60%. We in Novi Slovenija note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed budgets for 2008 and 2009 which are friendly to young people, as more funds are focused on areas that are closely linked to young people. Let me just mention the scholarship law. We are pleased that the Government provides an important place for development, education and social protection, which are key areas that can provide social security for young people in the future. I would also like to point out that the family is a community, which is a very important cell that needs to be nurtured, which in itself will not succeed without external assistance. If we don't nurture it, then there's usually bigger problems sooner or later. You have to work in the family with slow steps. The important thing is that we can listen to each other. In the last 50 years, the Slovenian family has suffered no major changes or shocks. Traditional family values have been lost. For a young man, when we look at public research, the family is extremely important and is practically on the top of the scale. Above all, the strength and stability in the psychosocial sense that the family is supposed to give affect its development. That is why I have here to pay tribute to the Government, which puts this entire family's mandate in the right place in Slovenian society. As I come from an underdeveloped area, I particularly want to highlight the achievements of this coalition and this government in the area of corporate income tax. Recently, the government has adopted a new regulation which will allow for an additional regional tax relief for research and development of 10% and 20% of the invested funds, in addition to the 20% already in force. So it's going to be 20%, 30%, or even 40%. The amount of regional tax relief will depend on the gross domestic product per capita in the individual statistical region according to the national average. The data of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia show that in 2006 548 taxpayers benefited from the R & D benefit of a total of almost EUR 60 million. This is 24 times more than in 2005, when 222 taxpayers benefited from this relief in total only EUR 2.5 million. The government therefore waived the corporate income tax of almost EUR 15 million by introducing that relief in 2006. However, we expect that the number of taxpayers who will enforce this relief will be significantly higher this year and the following years, due to the introduction of additional regional relief. And since I am also coming from a region that is still highly agricultural, I am pleased to see a good and fast trend in increasing funds for agriculture, forestry and fisheries. Allow me some exact data on the funds allocated to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for agriculture. Again, to make this trend easier to see, a little bit of history. In 2005, agricultural resources were increased by almost 19%, according to the previous year, according to 2004. In 2006, agricultural resources were increased by a good 41%, according to 2004. In 2007, these funds were increased by almost 46%, according to 2004. The increase in agricultural resources in the 2008 budget is 78% higher than in 2004. And this level is practically maintained in 2009. This is certainly information that needs to be repeated several times because this government is also repeatedly evident by the opposition that it does not have a hearing about the agricultural sphere. As far as retirement is concerned, I just want to say two sentences. During the pre-election period in 2004, we accurately calculated that the then government coalition, or the government of Rop, had, in its domestic sense, brought about pensioners within four and a half years for two and a half pensions. That is why this correction, the commitment to this amendment, was entered into a coalition contract and we did so in 2005. It would be correct for an honourable colleague, Mr Cwickl, to calculate what proportion of the pension will be in 2009 compared to GDP, in order to make this calculation even if he still did, if I may say so, his formula. So the Slovenian public can have a comparison. With regard to the use or use of European funds, I think that Minister Ivan Žagar has explained here several times the possibilities and objectives of this government or Slovenia in drawing on European funds and that we are currently doing well and doing well. I will not repeat the history of how bad we were in the past. But something is true, and it must be repeated more than once. Bureaucratic procedures are so complicated that here, too, we are actually showing some Slovenian specifics, some Slovenian 'fonsch', as if we were ourselves 'fowsh', preventing ourselves from using European funds. But this is a fact that this coalition inherited, and these procedures actually run as they were in the previous government. I will be happy to support the 2009 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. And Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Today it seems, at least in the beginning, that the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence were the star of our debate. May I also be allowed to speak a few words and perhaps explain some of the dilemmas that emerged at the beginning of the debate. It was said, among other things, that the minister announced that he would buy 12 vehicles and then bought 10 for the same money. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] or for more money, [[...]] [[All right, Mr. Anderlich, thank you.]] I will explain because it will explain the same. Similar questions were raised when vehicles were purchased 8x8. And then suddenly there was a comparison that Croats would get more vehicles for the same money. How is that possible? And all sorts of things came up. And allow me to answer you with a case from the previous term. During the previous term, Slovenia purchased, bought, paid for vehicles known as Hammers. At the same time, Hungary also purchased these vehicles and Hungary received about one third of several vehicles for approximately the same money. Of course, we who were in the opposition at the time didn't drive the same "trouble" as you did now at 8x8 because we knew exactly what it was. Our vehicles were different from Hungarian vehicles after they had armored protection. That's what they say. They had a reinforced body in case they took the mines. And what is the result of such purchases? The one that showed up in Afghanistan when our vehicle, one that has additional protection, took it to the mine, was fortunately all those who were in the vehicle were alive, without any major physical consequences. But when a similar vehicle of the American army is taken away, because it does not have such, unfortunately, they do not have it - why not, they know it themselves, they do not have such protection, no more vehicles and no more passengers who are in this vehicle are called soldiers. If you did this to me and asked the minister to explain why you bought more expensive vehicles, where the difference is, why they got more vehicles, why they were cheaper, then you'd probably act irresponsiblely. This is one of the proofs of how some things get fooled, how they don't get along, and some of them don't want to understand. And this is what Minister Erjavec also talked about, that he sometimes has trouble coming to Parliament and explaining about every "shrauf", about every tolar, why it is different, if it is different, if the vehicles are different and have different equipment. Not all vehicles are the same as Hamer, not all vehicles have 8x8 configuration, but depending on how they are equipped. And I told you the example of the Hummer who was very rational bought in the previous term, but we as the opposition did not drive completely, sorry, "noise" why it was so. Because we knew it was for the safety of those who use it. These are soldiers. And that's what turned out in Afghanistan. And that's exactly what we're buying for intervention at international hotspots. This is also one of our tasks. And some can't understand it, and they don't want to understand and mutilate and do "noise" when there's no need. Safety, of course, comes first. And in military vehicles, it's particularly pronounced. Now another 2%, which we have been talking about today, is 2% of the GDP that Slovenia is supposed to give for the military. That's right. For this we all committed ourselves, including the opposition at the time, that was us when we supported these documents when we entered NATO. However, it is also true that other NATO member states have committed this and the situation is such that, for example, Germany has spent 1.2% of its budget for four years, but it is also 2% of its budget. They didn't give two percent. This has now been improved for them, and it is likely that we will be close to 2% for one year, slightly smaller for the second year, depending on the tasks, depending on the resources available to us, and in the light of the plans we will have. That way it's not a big deal. We have also spoken several times today, and we are likely to do so, about inflation, which is one of the Maastricht criteria. On the other hand, we hear many times the evidence given to us by a European Commissioner that Slovenia is a poor example. Well, if Slovenia is a poor example, but then we have to ask ourselves, what about our neighbouring country, Italy, which is significantly more important in this euro system when it has not met for just one year, I think not a single Maastricht criterion. Not one. However, Slovenia fulfils everything except inflation. Of course we can't be proud of that. That's what we all agree on. However, the matter is that there is no need for us to be more papal than the pope if there are problems. Then this Commissioner should also say something to Italy and obviously not. Of course not, because there is a socialist government in Italy, but he is from a socialist bloc and then he is happy to mud Slovenia, which is not in this bloc right now. That's one of those things. Today, it has been acknowledged by Mr Ciccle that he has been a minister for three years and that he should have done something by now. And I would say, yes, of course, he's been a minister for three years, because that's what he knows. Look, we've got good finances, we've got good, healthy public finances, the government deficit is shrinking. It's smaller every year. Of course, it's not over yet, as you said, my wish would be, but it's getting smaller. And if it goes that way, I don't know, two years from now, there won't be a deficit if that's our goal at all. Probably all countries have some deficit, but the minimum that can be monitored, which is still publicly financially sustainable. Besides, I'd say that. It's a good thing we have a minister like that. He was the finance minister of the year. The finances, as we have found, are healthy and I would say, thank God we don't have any other, one that doesn't even know how long the financial year is. We had a finance minister and a secretary of state who was responsible for public finances, who, it seems, is sitting here today even in a matter of art. For revenue, the financial year was 13 months and for expenditure and only 10 months for the financing of local communities. I would not want such a financial minister, even if ours is not ideal, but apparently very good, he is better than the one who makes us such witches and devils, which then keep us in pain. I'd like to mention that in the end. We have a lot to say about how the European Union warns us about how something is obvious to us in order to improve. I agree with that. It's only right that we're being warned. We have some warnings, we have some sort of security framework that we need to stick to. It is right to be warned that we are not yet good here, that this needs to be improved. Nevertheless, we do not expect to be ideal. We have been good for two years or three years in the European Union, in the euro area for not another year, and we now expect them to be ideal. I mentioned earlier that Italy, which has reportedly been in the euro area since the beginning, has not been an ideal member of the European Union since the beginning as a founding member of the Treaty of Rome. She's even worse than us. However, we would be required to be the best in the first year and to set an example. I am sure that if we had been in the European Union since the signing of the Treaty of Rome, we would probably have been significantly better already. But at the time we were still making fun of this system, from those countries that signed the Treaty of Rome on what it was, so that it would not trigger any negative reactions again. After all, it would have been better if we had already been a member of the European Union in 1980 and we could not have been because we were building another system. But that's what happened. This has been the case, and it is probably not possible to expect this government to be a member of the euro area within three quarters of the year, which is a major success, since we are the only new members of the European Union to reach these criteria, but we will be the best and best example of the old members of the European Union. We don't expect that. And I hope that the Commissioner, who had so much to say at the expense of Slovenia, does not expect us to have a magic wand. Even though we have a good financial minister, he does not have a magic wand to fix and improve everything at once, what we might have built for 50 years somewhere else. That's how it was, things were like that, and now we're trying to fix it. But it doesn't work overnight. But success is here, and the foundation is fine. We also have to admit that, and no one is saying that we built on a lousy foundation. We did not, but the basis could be even better if we were already a member of the European Union in 1980. That's the way it is. And now the upgrade is good. It is obviously very good to meet all the Maastricht criteria, except one, and Italy as an old member none. And we have some other countries like this. I think it's good for Slovenia to have good public finances. And also this proposal, which is prepared, is probably based on these good foundations, that it will be even better in the future and that we will move even faster and that we will improve those things that are not yet right. But we will never achieve idealism like this. I will therefore support the government proposal and the amendments in the conclusions that will be needed at this point, as there are also funds for projects that are also from my constituency. As I said yesterday that I am not ashamed of it, even today I say that I am not ashamed of it, and that is why the electorates elected me to see the tree that belongs to my constituency. It's something completely normal. But I'm not ignoring either one or the other. This is how I see the whole forest, and that is why I will also support such a 2009 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u102	Of course, I would first like to tell the Member of Parliament in the replica that my mandate as Secretary of State began on 1 March 1998 and the so-called extended year ended in January 1998, two months earlier. Second. This is a procedural proposal to the Member, the leader of the Group of Members and to the Minister. What the Member of Parliament has said is a new level of mud. First the opposition is muddy, then the media is muddy, and now you are profaning the European Commissioner. I would very much ask if the Minister of Finance would instruct members of the ruling coalition to speak like this a year ago, Slovenia would be asked not to join the Eurogroup. Mr Almunia will be a co-worker with Mr Finance Minister in the first half of next year, 18 hours a day will be heard if necessary. And if the MPs of the ruling coalition believe that he is profaning Slovenia when he warns you about things, then please see what someone else, another European official, a member of the Council of the European Central Bank, has said: "The easiest problem is to send problems to Brussels." Don't do this. Gentlemen, don't do this if you really think you deserve a presidency. The Presidency is also a responsibility. And Mr Almunia, as European Commissioner, who is today talking in China about what will happen to the value of the euro, is not "who will be". I propose, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Minister for Finance, that you defend the European Commission's good name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I've noticed that there's still a desire for a debate, so I'm opening a re-circuit. Please contact all Members who want to log in by pressing the key. Here you go. There are six Members who wish to speak after the debate and among them is First Member Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. I'm afraid we're quite repeating ourselves in this debate today, but that's just the way it is. But today we have heard something new again, and that is sad what we have heard. We have heard one statement saying that Slovenia will not preside over the European Union. Slovenia will preside over the European Union, not this government. But you obviously don't get it now. Slovenia, the state of Slovenia will chair the European Union on 1 January. That is why this fact must be dealt with in this way. Not as you treated him when it was very clear what the confidant was referring to. I think your political analysts could talk to each other a little bit. You're turning down the budget for 2008 and 2009 because it's bad, you say. It's best to keep what we have now, to change nothing. At the same time, you are putting in a multitude of amendments, and by accepting them, you are making it worse in the direction that you say it is bad. I think it would be right for you to decide whether you will insist that the budgets are bad and reject them and withdraw all the amendments, or whether you will discuss budgets as is necessary to discuss them. As Slovenia will chair the European Union by 1.1, the budget of this country is the budget. It covers all the areas in this country, covering all the investments in all areas, both those you say are ours, and those you say are yours. Although I don't understand this terminology and it's illogical and unclear to me, even in 2007. But it must be realized that when the budget is rejected, the budget is rejected as a whole. This rejects all that is good in this budget, at the expense of an imaginary weakness that is not. Because the changes reduce the budget deficit from 300 and several million euros to 230 in 2008 and 125 in 2009. These are the facts. Some facts are very difficult to operate on. Very hard. Today was mentioned somewhere in the discussion yesterday's Hot Chair show. And let me tell you on this occasion how many lies, untruths, drownings and mudslides are in a certain circle. Yesterday Mr. Zdolšek said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u105	My friend, I'm going to cut you off from this place because I'm not going to allow so much debate to be passed on to yesterday's, before yesterday's and last year's show. Will you continue to talk about the mother that is now or will I take your word for it?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u106	In the budget you oppose, you consider that this budget is only in the interest of those who are part of the ruling elite. And you have gone so far as to find among the 100 richest Slovenians the current Minister of Health, Mr Zofija Mazej Kukovic, 11 and several million euros, or 9th place, I apologize, Mr Branko Drobnak, 9th place, with over 47 million euros. 11 million euros, it's only around 50th city, somewhere Jankovic's family and so on, Škrabec, Ribnica. It says, so far this hypocrisy of yours goes, that even there [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u107	Comrade Blacky, you're testing my patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u108	I will come to the point I want to talk about in connection with the 2009 budget. That you want to push through this poor budget preparation of the ruling coalition. I think that's bad. And you're talking about using European funds is the point where the budget cannot be supported. It has been said several times that Slovenia successfully completed the previous financial perspective, which began in Slovenia on 1 May 2004. That at that point she was extremely unprepared to draw funds, we all know. You will recall that in early 2005, the Government adopted a series of operational measures that enabled this project to be successfully completed in such a way that the funds from the previous financial perspective are 100% used or 100% used by the end of 2008 or by the end of 2010, as this is enabled by the rules of the European Union. The funds were optimally and fully used. It is also clear that there will be no real assumption that the planned funds will be used in 2008 and 2009 as a result of the amendment or the 2009 budget. It is true, however, that in 2007, the funds were not used as planned because we adopted the 2007 budget in December 2006 when it was not yet clear how quickly procedural and administrative obstacles at the level of the European Commission to the validation of programmes would take place. However, in any event, it is the funds that are drawn up and used during the period of the overall financial perspective. I am sure that Slovenia will not miss anything in view of what projects it has prepared to use during this period. Thus, it is not in fact possible to understand these perceptions from this title. You can't understand, except perhaps from a sense of resentment, because you were unsuccessful at the time, but now this government is successful and somehow you can't swallow it. But it's irresponsible behavior that doesn't come from the highest policy. There were a few words mentioned regarding funding for the State of significant investments through the DSU or the consultancy and execution company. I already said yesterday, perhaps someone in this Chamber believes that the way this country used in past times, in past governments, was better. At that time, the State rented premises, paid high rent for them, and in the seven years that rent amounted to the value of the purchase for these premises, after seven years the State owned no square meters of space. According to the current system, the case is reversed. The state is still burdened with certain costs, but the material substance, the real value of the assets, is increasing over the long term. Since we can't talk about everything, Mr. Vice President, I will respect your decision. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u109	All I'm asking you is to stay away from the TV program.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u110	Yeah, I got it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u111	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u112	I suggest you think carefully about whether you will support these budgets or not, because none of these fears that you have raised in connection with the adoption of the budget in the past year have come true. This is not about the non-consistency of the budget, not about the fact that the budget will not come out and that it will be necessary to raise the VAT rate by which you intimidated the Slovenian public, which is very bad and also this fear has an indirect impact on inflation expectations. I'm sorry, such rumors also affect the movement on this market. We need to realize that everything we say here has some weight, and every such forecast is not good. The lack of funds to be received by Slovenia from the European Union for its projects, not the collapse of one of the cash registers, none of what you have threatened and, as a result, hindering the adoption of previous budgets has not been realized. Please do not repeat this error, be serious, review what it says in the budgets, and it is still time to talk seriously and to discuss the amendments seriously. If you insist on poor budgets, then I really don't know why I would support any of your amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u113	The next word is from only Bevk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today, it has been repeatedly said why opposition Members are making amendments if we oppose the budget. It's perfectly normal and nothing special! I looked at the vote of 12 December 2003, 65 was quorum, 50 votes in favour and 15 against. Mostly from those clients who are reading this to us today. However, these same Members have tabled, which was a draft amending of the 2004 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and these same Members have tabled dozens of amendments to this budget. It is said that this is a purely normal matter, and everyone has the right to make amendments to the budget, even if it does not agree with the global budget. I would now like to ask the representatives of the Government, the President of the Government and the Secretary-General and other ministers to confirm and explain what colleague Weber said earlier. Indeed, the Government is expected to start construction of eight palaces worth around 200 million euros in the coming years with extra-budgetary funds. They say they're already buying land and some buildings. For the Court Palace, for the Ministry of Education, for the General Police Administration, for the Ministry of the Interior, for the Ministry of Environment and Space, for the Ministry of Agriculture, for the Ministry of Labour and for the Ministry of Health. I would like to ask the President of the Government and the Secretary-General and all the ministers I have now listed, or ministries, to say what is with these 200 million euros of extra-budgetary funds, which are not in either document. Let me say that we could build more than 20 homes of pensioners in our country with this money. However, there is only one investment in the home of pensioners in this budget with a name and surname, namely in Idrija. The funding rate is €1 million in 2008, €1 million in 2009, €1 million in 2010, €3 million in 2011, €116 million in 2011, and around €500,000 has been invested in the plans so far. I ask you how to build a pensioner's home after such a rate of funding, wherever in Slovenia. I fully agree with my colleague, Petty Officer, that this is one of the so-fed areas that should be treated differently. The government, however, takes decisions on 200 million out-of-budget funds for 8 ministerial and other palaces. Let the government's representatives answer that question! Or, say, for the next five years. 275 million euros for patriots. Half a billion euros in the coming years for investments in palaces and weapons. How many homes can we build with this money or other investments in education and culture. In the area of culture, only €18 million is available for all investment funds in 2008, about €20 million in 2009. We will not be able to complete these investments, which we have started in the field of culture. For palaces, there are 200 million euros for weapons, for patriots, and 275 million euros for palaces. Where is the face of this country and this overexpenditure? I would therefore ask the representatives of the Government, let us give them a decision and give them some time at their disposal because they have spent it to answer these questions. With regard to the 2009 budget, however, I would like to point out another problem. On my initiative, the Ministry of Culture has taken a decision to extend the validity of the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. And since there is no cultural toll in the 2009 programme and budget, as its validity expires next year, this 2009 budget will also need to be supplemented and amended and also include items under the title of the so-called cultural tolar or cultural euro, as we might now say. Above all, Mr Vice-President, I propose that we give the government representatives another 10 minutes of time to take this decision, even though they have already used it to answer the question of how the 200 million euro out-of-budget funds are to be built by 8 palaces for administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Given that we still have a few more Members and Members of Parliament among the applicants, they will be given the floor first. However, if later all Members of Parliament will be in favour of your proposal, then no one will oppose the proposal which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and I will not have any problems with it either. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u116	We witnessed a performance by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence and one of the Members who took up the role of defence counsel. They were both unsuccessful and did not answer any of the questions that I have been asking very clearly for two days. First time. I agree you're getting in line with the program. You sign 12 light reconnaissance vehicles and sign on this page to spend between €17 million and €19 million. Then you come and say, not 12 vehicles, now we only need 10 more. But according to the plan you're talking about here, you're supposed to buy 12. First question: Why these derogations? Secondly: How can you spend less €5.7 million on two vehicles? We listen here all the time, how about rational spending, how about good negotiations - tell me, who can understand that? That's all I'm asking. I do not object that Mr Petan and anyone else will say or the Secretary of State that I am not for the Slovenian Army to be equipped - yes! But within the framework of the plans, in the context of rational spending and above all transparent, especially transparent, because the Slovenian public cannot explain itself because they know when a car is going to buy, say a car, this car is available to them for so much and so much money. And she wants it, and then she finds out she doesn't have that kind of money anymore, because it's been so much and so impressive. Or buy it instead of the whole car, without the first one, the last one, I don't know which bike, because less than one probably can't. Please, yesterday you republished €39 million again from these same purchases, €39 million for RCBO vehicles and so on. Just tell me if you have a plan to get seven instead of nine and pay 45 or 50 million euros for it - that's your transparency. I want to make very clear what is in the plans, the invitation to tender, transparency, in line with the law on public procurement, the specification of what you are ordering - the gentlemen from finance know very well what section 25 of the law on public procurement and what else - the specification, what you are buying and how much money you are willing to give for this. That's all I'm asking. Here comes this second, in a kind of worrisome question, when representatives of the Ministry of the National Assembly at the Committee declare that you are not planning more than 8,500 soldiers, but 7100 and 7200 in 2009. It's true, you don't raise money for your wages because you won't get it. You say here that there are problems and so on - yes, we all know that, so we are also trying to understand these problems, but we also need to find common solutions. I'm in favour of talking about them, or reducing the number of soldiers - whatever, it doesn't matter. But it's very unconvincing if on the one hand you say you're reducing the number of soldiers and so you don't need any more money for wages - okay. But how is it that your plans remain the same for the purchases as nothing will change? We need to talk about these relationships. The difference is 40%, the index is 120 in purchases, the number of soldiers is 20% stagnation, from 8500 to 7100 is 20%, and if you plan to do so, then you just have to say what it is. I'm not asking anything else here, I'm not "disputing" that we're talking about acquisitions, that we're not providing funds, so I don't understand how it's that only the means of technological development for the science of the Ministry of Defence are shrinking, I don't know why, and that's what I want you to answer. However, the problem is that it would be right for all of us to think together about how to round up this defence system, but I agree and I am willing to discuss it, to contribute our share, as long as we are also willing to talk about real things, things that are really the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Dear colleagues from Pahor's SD give an incredibly great opportunity to discuss and I will continue where they ended up, even if I can use the same words, and I will add to what my colleagues have unfortunately forgotten. Amnesia, you know, is such a common disease in Slovenian politics, and this epidemic has been present for 15 years now, and let me help them with my powers. I'll use just the same words. How many hospitals could we build, how much more could we do for our children's education if not for Member of Pahor's SD, Mr Tone Rop abroad, to increase the costs we will devote to the defence. There would be no need for any patriotic purchases of weapons unless Mr Tone Rop, a member of Parliament, had made binding promises on such an easy-to-think basis when he was still the Prime Minister of the Government abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fact, let's talk once about the facts for change. I would like to continue here with what is then again the honourable SD Member, Mr Squeakl. He touched on these ways of informing abroad about our finances, what feedback we receive. Before that, there was some debate from the SD Group on how people in the streets are already protesting, trade unions, because you know how we get sharp protests from the pensioners' society - you know, that's very nice to hear, but to understand the mechanism, we need to look at the names and surnames. Who's actually in there? When Mr Miloš Pavlica, former Member of the Pahorje SD, speaks to the unions, he is all clear - Dušan Semolič, a long-standing member of the Executive Committee or a pardon for the presidency of the Pahorje SD. We're all one small family. Let's move on. When Matthew Kožuh Novak answers and sends extreme warnings - who is it? Former Member of Pahor's SD. Now, in order for this enlightenment to be fully possible, I will add just the words of your President Pahor, who said: "Who will change this pattern of behaviour that divides into 'our' and 'your' which gives political loyalty before professionalism and which policy penetrates into all subsystems in society..."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u119	My friend Grims. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u120	"who will change..." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u121	we are considering the general part of the completed [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u122	"...a name... for the next term." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u123	Draft budget for the year [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u124	Well, look at that. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u125	2009 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u126	Let's add to that, gentlemen. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u127	At this point, of course, I'll take it from you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u128	Kocjančica in sport [[....]] [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u129	a word. [[...]] We continue the debate. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Get to know the culture a little bit. [[...]] [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Get to know the culture a little bit [[...]] [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Calm your nerves. [[...]] You know it's an open restaurant, go get some coffee. Thank you very much. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u130	That's right. The budget debate also divides the policy into 'our' and 'your', and if ever this should not happen, this bloc split should not happen. I summarise what was said here hours ago by a member of the ruling coalition who says that we have sometimes invested when he said that sometimes it was only for his own - when the opposition was investing - its roads, its amendments, its budget corrections, but now that we have ruled so long, we must look after the whole country. When we talk about the country's well-being and when we adopt and deal with the budget, we enlighten it for the sake of well-being, we are not talking about the bloc's divisions and forest and trees that must be adapted to its electoral environment at the time of adoption and correction of the draft budget. But I'm going to talk about one partial interest that today - unfortunately, it doesn't seem partial - has not been discussed yet. I will talk about the draft budget, as it is drawn up for 2009 in the field of culture, and I will mention and summarize the observations which are of concern to me. Indeed, the fact that in 2009, when the Government no longer has a start, in 2009 there are not so many projections and, therefore, the budget leaves in the field of culture in a very minimalist, extremely minimalist form and leaves it in such a form as to say that the lowest share is within GDP after 1992. And that the budget for culture in 2009 is the lowest percentage within all budget expenditure since 1992. It is true that inflation is taken into account, indeed, that some corrections have been taken into account, but within GDP, within the 2009 budget priority, Slovenian culture has not yet cut off such a low cake. Some seem to see it as a starting point, as is expected for 2009. I am correcting myself by saying that the share of the cultural budget in the entire budget was the same in 2006. That's 2.01%. But in 1992 it was 2.47 or later even more - 2.50 in 2005. And that GDP, which will be 0.47, was once again 2.56 years ago. That's what I'm worried about. At the same time, I am worried about something else, but I am not just talking about the share that is recognized through culture, I am also concerned that the project that you promised when you started on responsibility - says on the Government - is a key project that you have not only put in coalition lines, but also in all your parliamentary or political programmes at the top of the priority - the construction of the National and University Library - in this budget, not for 2008 nor for 2009. There is no project, there are costs of paying rent for spare space, for those spaces that you promised will be built and that the foundation stone will be built as soon as you take power. It's an old project, everyone has their bad conscience here, but this conscience, you said that you will end up with your steps, which are nowhere to be found now, or in the budget - the NUK has even less or fluctuate resources for repairing, studying and researching or paying rents for its operations. In short, you came by knocking on your chest, by knocking on your Slovenian identity, by the power of your Slovenian word, by the power of your Slovenian culture, which should also be reflected in the unfortunately slow-thinking programme of the construction of the National and University Library, which is now nowhere. But there are other museums! The government set up a museum in Stična last year, a religious museum - okay, it was needed, but it was established. Large funds are now being paid for studies, for promotion and for the construction of the airport museum, which you finance, I recognize, with the influence of a certain Member, the amendments voted here to the 2007 and 2008 budget. The money to build a pyramid in Slovenia is two meters larger than the Keops pyramid, although the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia wonders what to do with it. But - okay, great, it's going to build up, we have a strong economy, we have an ever better tide in the economy - why doesn't the economy then build it? Why has the state been funding for how many years? Since 2006, the budget has been coming from the Ministry of Culture, EUR 20 000, in 2007 EUR 41 000, almost EUR 42 000, in 2008 it will be € 42 000 again, and in 2009 it will be nearly € 43 000. And not just from culture, so far, to study, to think about this great pyramid, this great air museum has gone through a lot of money, including from two other ministries, so to speak, from defence and foreign affairs. I admit, you voted that way, but not for 2009, which is still in there. The cultural item is still busy with this money, and we want to redirect this item to a place where the government has not blinked for three and a half years. Archives in the Republic of Slovenia are in a catastrophic situation, the material is no longer collected, despite the fact that the archives in the National Assembly have been commissioned to receive more materials than in the past - says one that comes from so-called bureaucratic species and papers. The archives are at the bottom, the archives are closed, they can no longer be physically stored in the archives of the material, because there is no room and because the deposits and all the other conditions are not regulated. No! No! To study and think about how we're going to build the largest pyramid that's going to be bigger than Keops's, yes. For research, that's yes. This is why we find an explanation in the 2009 budget that we will co-finance with almost 43,000 euros the preparation of a feasibility study of the European Aviation Museum and the continuation of a project to prepare documentary material for the promotion of studies and the feasibility of the European Aviation Museum for educational purposes. What happened to these studies so far, we don't know. Although we have an attorney and I hope that she will tell us what happened to this money, but now this should continue. But for everything else, and when we read the budget, we are actually reading the country's priorities in a particular area. We read more than promises, read and recognize coalition and political priorities. That is why there is no money in this budget for, say, preventing the decline of frescoes in Hrastovje, which is blocked by water, and we know that the greatest sights of Slovenian painting are. There is also a shortage of money to edit a camp, once a concentration camp in Ljubljana, where cows and pigs are now grazing. For all of this and for the archives, we are running out - but we have money to explore the foundations of the airport museum and we have no money and will to determine what is not in this budget in the future with the NUK. Of course, in the budget we recognize not only numbers, but also goals, I said. It is no wonder, therefore, that in the Group of Members, we have at times focused not on increasing certain items, but even on withdrawing. And we have done this again in the area of culture, where a certain item has proved to be acting completely untransparent, which is an anomaly, although it is well-designed for good purpose. That's what they call the minister's pocket, which is called the minister's reserve. It is right that the Minister has a reserve when certain projects cannot be foreseen in advance or when facing events that could not be tendered for such or other reasons. But this item turned out to be the one that the Court of Auditors so eloquently condemned - we know how the budget money was paid for some media in Maribor, which was not entitled to money and was not rejected, and then this reserve from the pocket saved it. And there were a number of such items when, in addition to being regular and there are opportunities for you to go to a public invitation to tender - I have already mentioned one cultural home with one MP or mayor today. Besides the possibility that you're going on a public invitation, you're not doing it because it's easier through the minister's reserve anyway. Of course, I will not return to those problems that have marked the issue of such an item to a large extent if it is not transparently regulated and if it does not have the rules of the game. This is why we said that this money, which is intended to go and which is increased by the correction of the roofing law on culture, which has given more opportunities of this kind of own-hand, I will say whether by its own logic of action I have further opened the tentacles. The budget shall consist of negligible financial or expenditure effects. But that must also be taken into account. That is why I am also concerned, as colleague of Tavševa, who spoke this morning about the opening of the new budget lines that will touch in 2009, perhaps even earlier - what we know about what kind of talks will take place in the Vatican when the dialogue on an additional agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See is about to begin. We do not know, but the financial implications that may be possible at the time of the rebalancing for future budgets, but may otherwise or otherwise be taken into account by the Government, should be negligible financial consequences when the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on religious and spiritual supply in the defence forces and in the police or prisons is intended to produce negligible consequences only EUR 40,000 per year for the defence and security office to be paid by the State. But the anomaly that I hope will resolve before these issues, which we are already starting today, are resolved, however, is that these negligible financial consequences also occur on the basis of arrangements that do not actually have a specific basis. Who says the Constitutional Court has already settled and answered the question of the assessment of religious care in the Slovenian Army? And who also says that the Crusaders will return to the Church where this office is supposed to be? Whether this will be done by accelerated denationalisation, which we are facing now and in the coming days, which is expected to complete the smallest of Slovenian real estates or movables, which are expected to return to denationalising beneficiaries through denationalisation. We know how this swift process will proceed and what law Mr Šturm has brought us, which is supposed to push forward without the guards that are now possible, to deal with denationalising beneficiaries. In short, maybe I'm talking about details, maybe EUR 40,000 in the budget isn't enough, and maybe there's a ministerial reserve that's managed one way or another, not enough. Perhaps the funds of the Film Fund, which will not be used because of the devastation that took place in the field of film, have been transferred to the second year. That is how the report, which you all received when we asked the committee to discuss this topic, says that the Ministry of Finance is studying how what the Ministry of Culture could not spend this year, when the Slovenian film was destroyed and now the money is trying to push through in December, if there is somewhere an advance to be made, if there is something to be spent back, what has already been paid, and if there is something that can be resolved quickly, but because it cannot bear it in 2008, not 2007, I apologize. Let me draw attention to something else when I am dealing with the culture budget, in fact, for 2009, but I can also stress this for 2008. 61 votes last Friday, we gave last Friday to set up the Book Agency. None of the participants were against it, no one abstained, and in the words raised, we were all happy that it had concluded, as the Minister said, the most ambitious project in the politics of the Slovenian book. If this project is not supported by a decision amending the 2009 budget tabled between the amendments, then on these ambitions, on this ambition and on this ascension, there will be no spirit or hearing. I think it will be necessary to keep your faces and your words, the credibility of your words, when you meet with automation, if the proposaler is from another unfortunate bloc definition, even within the budget - then we vote against. However, if the signatory is someone else, we vote in favour. As much as I would say, your own trees, as one of my forerunners today, so many of my own trees in the forest, are not to be recognized when it comes to the budget, it is about the common good, but not about the partial interests of individual political visions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] Here you go. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u132	Thank you. I'm going to propose a concrete conclusion, just a few introductions. Mr. President-in-Office. You are well aware that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in no way allow you to take away a word as you have previously done, and to conduct a meeting extremely biasedly for the benefit of the Pahor SD, so that they can repeatedly make certain statements when you want to answer that question and do not allow an answer to another Member. The rules of procedure do not permit you in any way and will, of course, have consequences. However, I propose that you now accept, let us all take a joint decision in this National Assembly to find out that this National Assembly has a Vice-President of the Pahorje SD, who is conducting the meetings on a biased basis for the benefit of this Group of Members, and that this is Mr Sašo Peče. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u133	I think colleague Han answered for me. As a matter of fact, Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. The 2009 budget actually follows all these developmental trends over the last three years of this government, this National Assembly and in this budget it can be seen that it is development-oriented, that it is also for social, culture and education, science, much more resources than it has been in the past. Above all, it is important that there is a great deal of funding for investments. At the same time, it is most welcome that the lower public debt, which was 2.3% in 2004, is planned to be 0.3, which means that the reduction is 2%. This is an important achievement that actually shows the picture created by this Government by such a way of making decisions. A very large amount of resources, I can say, never before in the past years, is intended for Dolenjska, Suho krajina, White Krajina, as well as for the rest of Slovenia, although today it is possible to trace the statements of some Members that the budget is directed only in areas where coalition Members come from. This is not true, but the budget is very balanced as to the distribution across Slovenia. It has also been possible to hear today that this budget is oriented in relation to the electoral year in the following year, and that this is now an attempt to buy elections. Again, one misleading claim, because the purpose or purpose of this government was first to create the conditions to create enough funds that we will then be able to generate in 2007 - we already have a very large investment cycle - and in 2008 and also in 2009. It is necessary to create first, and only then can this created means be earmarked for investment and for all other things. Why were we able to achieve these things? Above all, with the clearly very good tax policy adopted by this Government, with a labour policy, we today have over 900,000 employees or almost a million employees, which was not yet in Slovenia's independent period, we have reduced unemployment in these three years by 30,000, all of which is the result of the work of this Government and the achievements that we have today mainly on the income side are more than obvious. It would certainly be easier to work these years if there were not so many mistakes made in the previous term. If we mention just one of these. Today we have listened to the famous amendments tabled by the Liberal Democracy, which are now members of the SD, in the area of tax reform. We know that the tax reform or legislation adopted in 2000 when Mr Rop was Finance Minister has passed such a law that every pensioner who has earned their pension has received almost one pension each year. And this trend continued until 2005, when we also changed this law. And today, pensioners actually have in mind this change as much as they benefit from or receive what they have earned. At the time of this mandate, we had over 28 billion holes in the health treasury - this too had to be filled. Very low economic growth. At the time of the beginning of the mandate, we had a number of parliamentary issues which had already accused this Government of being a low economic growth, although it was obvious that it was mainly a result of a poor policy that had been in the past years. And another very interesting thing is that in the past mandates there have been hundreds of wild privatisations, and the result is more than 100 very wealthy Slovenians, among whom we can find people of LDS and Social Democracy in particular. What do we have now? As I mentioned, public debt will now be reduced to 0.6% in the next year to 0.3%. We also have a very favourable climate as regards the increase in fertility, it is not created in one year, it is necessary to create an economic climate, a social climate and in 2006 we had almost 19,000 births, which is the most in the last ten years in Slovenia. The increase in wages, although by some Members we can hear that there is no real economic growth; on the other hand, we have heard by the same Member today that wages follow this, but that they do not follow them; however, see, in 2007, pensions have increased by 3.8%, now in November they will increase by an additional 2%, but it is also extremely important that they settle for another 10 months ago, meaning that pensioners will now receive a 20% settlement in this year. We will also have the completion of a number of roads, highways, and this is what will further encourage Slovenia in the coming years. And this is once again the achievement of this government and the method of funding, because in the past years, we have had such poor funding only to fall behind in the construction of roads. We also have or can record a number of investments in both the construction and reconstruction of hospitals, in the purchase of medical equipment or expensive medical equipment, not least in the purchase of expensive but effective biological medicines. Whatever the 2009 budget, it is not only this government, but the whole of Slovenia, or of independence, that is, the most successful, most development-oriented, and this is a guarantee that in the coming years we will be able to follow the European Union's development trends in Slovenia, and in a few years we will surely reach or overcome them. I will therefore be happy to support the 2009 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I'm opening a new application circuit within the available time. Please, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Very briefly. I had no intention of even discussing the general work, but with the amendments more, but my predecessor - he simply encouraged me to take the floor. Are the budgets, as proposed by the Government, politically oriented? Yes, of course you are! Of course you are! The coalition has tabled 41 amendments, which has never happened in the history of budget adoption, and the Government supports everything. Let me explain, Mr Grill, what the road to the Great Pole proposed by one of the coalition Members is more important than the road in Kungota proposed by one opposition Member. And just for 2008, when the election's over. Come on, don't talk. And another piece of advice. Let's stop blaming all evil in this world for the previous government. You've been ruling for three and a half years, and some of it's your fault, I guess. But if it's not your fault after three and a half years of rule, you can't rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u137	My friend Grill, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u138	Mr. Zagorac, once again, proof that you're speaking in your mind that you don't know the matter. For 2009, which budget were we talking about [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , no amendments or amendments have been accepted or tabled. [[...]] So let's talk about what's actually in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u139	Your time, thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Aurelia Yuri to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u140	Very short 22 seconds to remind my colleague Grims that his colleague has never made any such promises and has given no one about the arms and equipment of the Slovenian Army. Secondly, the President of the Free Trade Unions has never been a member, and he is not a member of the Presidency of the Social Democrats, but if we once belonged to the Union many times. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Communists, they can ask their party president how it went. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I ask, is there any other need for discussion? [[No, no, ……]] We will therefore decide on the general part of the updated draft budget for 2009 in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Wednesday 28 November in the framework of the votes. However, we are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the complementary draft budget for 2009. Do any of the Members present wish to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments to the specific part of the 2009 supplementary draft budget. I will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23.11 this year, separately by individual budget users and sub-programmes to which amendments have been tabled. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, listed on the 32nd page of the review of amendments, to the sub-programme of Higher Education, refer to the budgetary user the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and not to the user the Ministry of Education and Sport. Please also take this into account in the debate. As it is said, I am putting forward an amendment to the Sub-programme Regulation in the field of anti-corruption, user 1115. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. In any event, I am putting forward a second amendment to the sub-programme Support to the Communities of the budgetary user Office for Nationality of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, user 1516. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[Nobody.]] The President of the National Assembly, however, will make a third amendment to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u142	Thank you, Vice President. Now there's a switch. The amendment to the Slovenian sub-programme is in place in the foreign and foreign countries. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting forward an amendment to the sub-programme Supplemental Funds to the municipalities of the Ministry of Finance. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the debate an amendment to the sub-programme Implementation of foreign policy. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting forward an amendment to the Sub-programme for International Cooperation, we are with the Ministry of Defence. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] In the debate I am putting two amendments to the sub-programme "International Cooperation", the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. Anybody want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u143	Thank you, President. Thirdly, I am trying to implement an amendment that is linked to the functioning of the Mine Action Fund, which the country has reduced from the 2008 and 2009 budgets from €510 000 to €370,000 annually. So we are experiencing an incomprehensible story that the institution, which is our own, which is Slovenian, which expands its reputation and operates in the humanitarian, social, professional field, in the area of mine victims - to reduce its funds. We thus set a poor example because donors finance or co-finance the operation of donations linked to the basic part. And especially interestingly, Americans donate once more to every euro-paid donation. In Slovenia we have decided on a strange policy that we do not understand. Therefore, why do they want to reduce the importance of this institution, which is highly respected, has a position in the international, political and professional world. This is why we have proposed in the Liberal Democracy the amendment that you have before you. This amendment is worth EUR 524 000, but it actually covers the 2008 outage because it cannot be replaced anymore and the 2009 outage. I hope that the explanation that is well known to decision makers today will be well known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u144	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving to the Ministry of the Economy, to the sub-programme of the Programmes for the Promotion of Technological Development, where we have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the sub-programme Electronic Communications and Mail Programmes, where we also have two amendments. [[Nobody.]] I am putting forward three amendments to the Competitiveness Programme sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, ministers, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy, we propose additional funding under the Competitiveness Programmes; additional funds amounting to €700,000. Given that you have certainly read the justification, where we explain in the justification that there has been a substantial decrease in funds in 2007 to promote foreign investment, and we can see in 2008 that these funds are still somewhat smaller, i.e. three times less than in 2006. While it is very interesting to read the Ministry of the Economy's answers, as we follow the Ministry of the Economy's responses, we can see that both in the sub-programme of the Competitiveness Programme and in the sub-programme of Enterprise Restructuring and the promotion of small economy development, there is the same logic of explanation: therefore, the Ministry and the Government agree that in all these three areas there is a decline in resources. So, in all these areas, we record the decline in funds as in 2008, but the government continues to see that, of course, according to the framework it plans, these resources will be sufficient. Of course, we wonder what it is to predict in 2009, that we do not need these funds at least in 2008 and that we can reduce them. Therefore, what are the messages that Slovenia can reduce its competitiveness in 2009 can reduce its restructuring resources and can reduce its resources to promote the development of a small economy. We wonder what the government's strategy is after 2008, given that colleague Pukšič said that this government is only counting on it to rule. Yes, what will then be the enabling environment for the development and support of the economy and for building competitiveness, even stronger competitiveness in the economy? Do you then expect to give this area significantly less support than you have allocated in 2008? And how do you estimate that by reducing funds - nominally reducing resources - we are not talking about raising funds at least by inflation, but by nominally reducing the assets of the real sector, which will need such incentives if it wants to compete in a very important global competitive market. And here there is no reply at the substantive level, so we expect if you seriously think that you intend to continue with your budget in the substantive work even after the 2008 elections to give a clear answer to the Slovenian economy - on the basis of which resources can be provided at least the composition of the budget, because even in the best years, so in the best years of development, economic development and growth of the social gross product, we have an obligation in Slovenia. By reducing the support environment, we can expect increased debt, and by what we forgot to do in the best years, that is to say, to save, we will face even greater problems in 2009. That is why we do not understand in the Liberal Democracy how you create economic development in the future and how you enable a competitive perspective to the Slovenian economy. We therefore propose that, in the voting phase, you support such amendments, which will restore at least a little of what is already provided in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u146	Thank you. Anyone else in the Competitiveness Enhancing Sub-programme? No, no, no. We are moving to a sub-programme called Enterprise Restructuring, where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are going to promote the development of a small economy where we have two amendments. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u147	Thank you, President. This is a story similar to that of my colleague, Mr Germić. It is incomprehensible to us that funds are falling by 27% from this area. 27% in so many words about the need to develop entrepreneurship, so many words in promoting animation, education, education, VEM entry points and so on. So, I don't know how you're going to do this without funds or with less resources than in the past, so we've suggested that these funds go up by a million; a million compared to everything that's been done on the roads, with everything that's been going on in some other areas where you've reconciled coalition interests -- it's incomprehensible to us. We hope that such a million can also be redeployed in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u148	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We are moving to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. We have one amendment in the competition protection sub-programme. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where we have an amendment in the sub-programme Protection and registration of varieties of plants. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving to the sub-programme Reducing agricultural damage one amendment. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving to the Ministry of Transport, where we have two amendments in the Sub-programme of the Road Construction Fund. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving to the airport sub-programme and airport infrastructure. Nobody. We are moving to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, in the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads we have many amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u149	Thank you. So I'm going to talk about the amendments under number nine and the amendment under number ten. These are two amendments concerning investments in road infrastructure in the Municipality of Maribor. Yesterday, there was something about this speech, and yesterday a similar amendment was tabled for 2008 — a failure, that is to say, in the coalition. I hope that this success or this adoption in 2009 will be different. There are two investment interventions in state roads, I stress state roads, which in one case are probably one specific problem or the rareness that another state road is closed. This road under Maleknik, amendment number 9, is literally closed in the middle of the city. Maribor City Hall has been looking for a solution for some time with the Directorate, looking for the implementation of this road, projects have been made. The investment was so far away that it could start today, and was also promised by the Road Directorate that the preparatory works would start in 2008 to continue intensively 2009 and end in 2010, possibly in 2011, given the lack or the level of resources. Looks like it's nothing. This investment was moved in 2010, which is totally unacceptable for Maribor because it is one road connecting the new highway to the city center. This would significantly relieve traffic in one part of the city. The second part is the Proletarian Brigade Road - Limbuska Road. It is a new road that allows the fastest link from the very highly used part of Maribor to the November to the West, towards Ruš and further towards Koroška. So all the time in our plans, all the time in our minds and heads, unfortunately not on paper, and as a result this amendment is also given attention on our part, while noting that coalition Members, at least those who know this issue and this area, will be drawn to it. In this regard, let me appeal to the coalition that has succeeded in passing the amendments, which is beyond this procedure that we are experiencing here today, to enforce in the area of the 82 amendments in the field of "roadways". With these 82 amendments or additions and new investments included in the national development programme, i.e. in the supplementary draft budget, 82 requests were therefore taken into account, but these are purely and purely coalition. For us, this is an immoral, depraved act, so we do not have the same position as you did in the cabinets with the ministers or with the minister of'salley', conditionally said, you left us a public debate on the financial committees where we fail, at this National Assembly where we actually have a laugh. At least in this story, be a little bit more equal to all of us, in fact, who are trying to make these amendments work out at least part of what some of us may not know, but some of us know. And here, when Mr Chernač spoke about the behaviour of Members, this hypocrisy of Mr Chernač, expressed in his words, actually sounds quite visual. So we have tabled these amendments on the committees, identified the relationship of coalition members on the committees, who have in fact rejected everything someone from another political point of view has tried to propose to them. As a result, we have already raised our hands from this story in the end. Today, however, we have listened to the obvious, and what are we even putting in the amendments if we do not intend to adopt the budget. Yes, it is these amendments that we have some hope that you will be able to implement them and adopt the budget - those who have made a firm decision about this. Why would there not be projects within this budget that you have not chosen in this story, but that the coalition has tried to convince you that any amendment from the opposition types has the right to have a domestic right in the budget? Let me mention in this story, that is, my performances yesterday, when I took this act of coalition Members very critically, at least one of them I owe it partly to, of course, to change my public statement. Mr Willi Rezman raised his hands on these committees, unfortunately a lonely member of the coalition. It is clear that he knew in advance that he could not succeed, and other coalition Members have also exercised this mission by refusing to do so. In particular, let me mention the transfer of the SDS Group of Members. So, let me tell the public that this SDS opened a parliamentary office in Maribor in March or spring this year, that is, it opened an office in Maribor, although there is no Member in Maribor. Mr Jerovšek was at the opening, there was Mr Hvauc, I think Mr Pukšič, I am not sure, and some of these people from around Maribor. They did not even ask themselves, nor did they take the amendments into their hands, that is, the promises of how they will also take care of the interests of this environment, how they will apply their policies in this environment, have proved to be empty blisters. The SDS in this story apparently opened an office with a fig in his pocket. It is intended to criticise that none of these amendments concerning Maribor have an opportunity to enter into force in the budget. Maybe today's appeal will only give today's call to someone to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u150	Thank you. Since it's a number of deadlines, I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself will explain the eight amendments of the Slovenian National Party to this sub-programme, and I will be happy to hear from the representative of the Ministry of Transport, who I now call on publicly to explain to the Members why the Government does not support them. The first amendment speaks of a bridge across the Poet in Yuri. Here we want the reconstruction or reconstruction of this, I think that it will move 60 meters long from 2010 to 2009, because the bridge is in such a state that it will collapse and there may also be tragic accidents that will not benefit this government and not anyone else. But with pleasure, as I said, I'll listen to why you don't support him. The second amendment proposed by my fellow Member, Mr Sašo Peče, speaks of the so-called new Ways of Proletarian Brigades and Limbuška, where everything is ready for it to be appropriate for work to begin as early as 2009. Here, too, I will be happy to hear the reason why the Ministry of Transport does not support this amendment, even though the Municipality of Maribor has already prepared everything so that the work can continue. Even if you look at the heights, I believe you won't have a reason and you won't be able to tell me why you object. The next amendment proposed in the Slovenian National Party is the so-called proposed increase in the budget, which would allow the renewal of R3/711, section 9013 Rače-Kungota-Kidričeva in the area of the Municipality of Parents. You'll also have to explain to me here why the government opposes it. Under item 1.3.5 of the construction of state roads, funds should be increased by only EUR 400 000 - if we look at the cumulative budget, we see that this is a drop into the sea. It is the road Gruškovje-Malečnik, the section of Slovenia Vas-Malečnik, we know that this is the main link that comes from the Posnica, flies across Maribor and then forward to the border crossing, and would prevent many passengers, crowds and traffic accidents on the way to Croatia by doing so. Here you'll probably find a good reason why you don't support it. The following road is enabled to perform and to calm traffic to the G-I/1 section 1400 Maribor-Ptuj. Here too you probably have a fundamental reason why traffic does not calm down and continue to permit traffic accidents. The next amendment speaks of the so-called bird road, where the so-called cycling route is to be made. Here, too, you will probably be able to explain why this country can't fight 300 000 euros, given the cumulative budget, this is, as I said earlier, dripping into the sea. The last amendment I would like to explain is the so-called overpass in the Šentilj municipality for freight transport. We know that freight traffic causes considerable congestion, especially in peaks and summer months, when foreigners come through Austria to Slovenia and then continue their journey elsewhere. But I believe that you have enough reason for people here as well, and they will believe you, why such an amendment to move from 2010 to 2009, you will probably give me a thorough reason why the Government does not support it. Thank you in advance for your answers. But I will, of course, be willing to replicate any ambiguity you give in your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u152	Thank you. Let me warn you, Mr Zagorac, that the Government has no time to discuss, it has already run out. Someone else or Mr. Rezman is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I announced yesterday that the DeSUS budget is supported by the DeSUS Group, but it is not so good that it could not be improved for cities, so we have also supported some amendments and we will vote for them today and tomorrow. By the way, since this was said earlier - an apology was made, I would like to express my gratitude for the fact that yesterday Mr Friday is really at least unjustifiable, if not, probably not maliciously, carelessly and needlessly entangled with my name, if I do not support developments in Maribor. Today he corrected this and let me say that not only me, but also the DeSUS Group supported amendments that were opposition, either additional funds for the society of youth friends, or for UNICEF, or for schools, or for roads, or for bridges, or for more funds for local communities, or for the university, for example, where all the members of the groups have signed themselves under a proposal that I have prepared. And this was all in favour of Maribor, like the amendments that we submitted and accepted for more funds for the construction of the Maribor General Hospital. But let's leave it at that! I would like to say that, however, we are acting a little strange, both at the committees and at the National Assembly, when we think about what is worth supporting and what is not. In doing so, however, it sometimes happens to us if Milan Friday does not resent that he will act as a Maribor Demostenes and address the Filipico unjustifiablely, a little toxic on us and let us now fix it. The route of the proletarian brigades was proposed, otherwise the LDS did not propose, it was the SNS, and it was supported by me. The bridge in Selnica was supported by me. But the burka happened - 14 Members sat on Saturday when some had a Sabbath, and discussed this amendment and it happened that the opposition had tabled an amendment, was supported by one MP, a coalition member, and so the opposition itself did not support it. So, not a single vote, except mine, was in favour of this opposition amendment. So sometimes you feel a little embarrassed when you support an idea that seems good to you, even if it comes from the opposition. I will also support the construction of the road, which connects Kočevje with the White Krajina, which also the opposition Member has proposed, and much more. And I also refer to some of the urgent investments that are needed, a request to support yet another opposition amendment. And I am sure that those of us who know, say, in the Maribor area of the road, and even if we are coalition Members, we will still have a voice, and we certainly do not expect to vote for those roads that we do not know, because we would vote just like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I express my own support for the amendment under number 10. It is, in fact, a continuation of the amendment, which has already been tabled for amending the budget in 2008. In 2008, we propose 100,000 euros for the preparation of documentation, then in 2009 the continuation of the resolution of the G-1/1 bridge between Maribor and Dravograd. I am talking about the bridge, which is at the bottom of the two clans in Bistrica, in the congregation Selnica ob Drava. So it's a very dangerous traffic point where there's been a type of accident lately. Here I also ask for the support of the coalition MPs, as well as the opposition members - I hope that today or at the time of the vote on these amendments we will be more present than they were on the committee, because this is a very road between Dravograd and Maribor. This is because the fence is caused by a type of accident in a fully worn state, that the concrete part where the sidewalk is completely irritated and demolished. In this way, if we fail to make an effort to provide the means to rehabilitate this bridge, we risk being able, at the very end of the road, which is also the site of some of the roads that come from that work, to have any worse accidents, even with even more tragic consequences. That's why I'm asking for your support in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u156	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? I'm reopening the application. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is difficult for a person who comes from the province to exercise his interests in this National Assembly. When we have on one side with the gold-tightened bypass of the capital city, there is a new city and so on - Maribor does not yet have a bypass and the whole traffic flows into the city and is rolling down the city streets further. What colleague Friday and colleague Germič said could be illustrated by the following. This ninth amendment, which says that once after 25 years the city is supposed to connect to the hinterland, is a road under the Meljski Hriba. I don't know what they're doing at the proper ministry, but it's a first-class disgrace to this lobby that's been working on these things. Next, as far as you know Maribor, you all know the mustard where the vineyards are, but there is a hill with a slightly girded slope, for it falls stones. If anyone wants to come to the city from the left side of Drava, then instead of driving down this hill to Maribor, he must first cross one bridge, drive across the entire coast, drive over the railway bridge and then cross another bridge to get back into the city. Thus, places such as the famous Duplek Franz Kangler, Malečnik and similar places there are completely up there, as regards infrastructure cut off from Maribor, because these people mostly go to work and the crowd on these bridges is immeasurable in the tips. Therefore it would be good to gather so much attention and once, the road is not long, this part of the road arranged and then made it easier to arrive, not the Mariborians, in one part of Podravja, but these poor people from Podravja to Maribor. But I know what I said last night, it's the next thing. Similarly, as was the case in the previous term, it is also true in this mandate that even if you have gold arguments to convince the stone, these arguments do not convince you in any way; the main argument is whether you are in position or in opposition. He chooses his own roads earlier, and if this is too small, he will then submit joint amendments, which will be 100% announced. With the same arguments as to why these amendments should be voted on, opposition MPs are acting, but these things are not being done. I believe that nothing has changed in this segment in the budget of the National Assembly. That logic still applies, instead of improving the National Assembly’s reputation, remaining or even stagnant. The logic is true: if you were bad, we'll be three times worse - just remember what we were doing. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[Of course you are, Franchek, because there was no amendment there.]] After this behavior. These are very good categories, otherwise we could discuss how it is, but with these support of these amendments, it is clear that there is no movement in this part. Nevertheless, I would ask you to try to support at least these ninth amendments and to make it easier for those people who come from the countryside to Maribor either to work or to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u158	Thank you. Is there anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on investment maintenance and the construction of state roads. And we are moving to the Ministry of Environment and Space, and we have an amendment to the Sub-programme to promote efficient use and renewable energy. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to a subroutine of foster housing. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to a sub-programme Special programmes in case of accidents. Not at all. And we are moving to the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a sub-programme for water planning, protection and management. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, a sub-programme to increase employment. [[Nobody.]] Yes, Mrs. Shirca, increased employability. Here you go. We have an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u159	I'm sorry I even wanted to talk about the amendment to the Ministry of Environment and Space, or maybe I'm not following yours anymore. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u160	Yes, we are already at work, family and social affairs, increasing employability.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u161	I will also increase the social protection of the disabled - but not yet, then I will report later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u162	All right, all right. Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to a sub-programme to ensure social inclusion. I have an amendment. Anybody? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the sub-programme Creating new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses where we have two amendments. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. The reasons for this amendment and the reason for the support are in the context of this amendment and an even greater argument is the explanation in the Government's opinion. Because the Government is talking about active employment policy measures to help employers create new jobs together with the European Social Fund will be planned to the extent that they are adequately responding to this area. If we are listening today and have been reading for some time now that the use of the European Social Fund is minimal to a minimum, the assessment of the funds used so far by this European Social Fund is 5%. We wonder how the government guarantees that those who, as employers, will have to restructure because of difficulties, will have to adapt jobs, create jobs for the more difficult employees, how funds will be provided for this area. Fear exists, and so we suggest you support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u164	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We are moving to subroutine Other programs to help the family. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I would like to invite everyone to support this amendment, which is an amendment to work at the work centres. Let me remind you that before the time before, in the previous budget together, the coalition and opposition Members, we have provided about a million and a half euros for the Minister of that time, if I am jokingly say, we almost forced them to take them so that he could come and install the foundation stone in Maribor. In January, the new minister she replaced will probably go to open this facility because it will be finished. I would be happy to see that, at that time, it has helped to ensure that it has also accepted the money that we are dedicating elsewhere to these and other work centres so as to be able to implement programmes in new facilities. Therefore, I propose that the opposition and coalition members, as in the previous budget, support the amendment that favours the work centres or the disabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u166	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca. We're still at the subroutine. Are we going to the next one? [[...]] To the same subroutine. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I express my own support for this amendment. On the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have dedicated a special session to addressing this important area. And it is really unacceptable that, last year, with the amendment of the coalition and the opposition, we have earmarked resources to build a facility and provide capacity, and we are not able to provide human resources and support for the programme in accordance with the national social protection programme. This makes it clear that it will not be possible for those who should have a place in the work centres to do so because there will be insufficient resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u168	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u169	The maturity of society, politics and decision is confirmed and strengthened through awareness of the main problems of the future. And the main problems of the future are not only in the problems that will arise with the protection of the environment, so I also wanted to draw attention to the amendments that are supposed to promote renewable resources, but the government believes that they are enough already, but also in the sensitivity of key problems that are not only bound to security, but also to age, to demography, to health issues and, above all, to disadvantaged groups. And the work centres, which my colleagues have talked about several times during the day, are probably helping people who have problems in their mental or physical development. These people are abandoned, and unless society helps them, they are somehow robbed of all integrity. With the amendments that appear here, we actually introduce the commitment of that committee meeting when we put this issue under the magnifying glass, especially with great attention, the end of the day was also the people who are dealing with these problems. They pointed out that those responses received from the government side are said to be that in the coming years 2008 and 2009 the 100 that are waiting for them to come to these centres will, however, give some comfort that the staff's still closed and stopped employment opportunities for those people who care for these people will somehow turn up; but while a number of jobs are promised to care for those individuals who are now without adequate care, this number is too small. It's 60, I think it's a job, but given that employment was stopped three years earlier, even those 60 won't satisfy those wishes they have. Perhaps we should now look at the actual situation on the screens, perhaps a film or a video of these full - time workers who are now replacing those who cannot be employed. By the way, without problems and without difficulty, we are hiring new staff who will care for spiritual care both in the Slovenian Army and in the Police, as well as in prisons - okay, so we have decided and no problems in hiring these people; in hiring people who are working very, very hard with people who have developmental errors and development problems who are disabled or otherwise need help, and they are not. And if we looked into these institutions and into the excess and exhaustion of those who are there, we would probably all be deciding, without any dilemma, how to vote. This amendment is somehow trying to remedy, which the Ministry of Labour could not agree with the Ministry of Finance when negotiations were held on these staffing responsibilities. And let me draw your attention to another amendment. There were many words, full of press conferences, full of beautiful promises on the eve of violence in the family, especially against women and children. We know that the law is coming, we know that more or less everyone has greeted him with open arms, that we have tried to fix what is going to happen, and we will do what may not be optimally regulated in the law, but that law, which will try to stop or prevent violence in the family or in family and other communities, will cure certain problems that are difficult. But once again, if we save him with paper, we do not have in mind that in this particular area civil society organisations are doing a huge amount of work that limits to volunteering, then also such a law and so much painting and so much praise as we all oppose to expel violence, it will have no meaning unless it is realized and seen through financial consequences as well. That is why we have also tabled an amendment in Zares, which would also help victims of violence and through networks of centres for psychosocial assistance to victims of violence somehow provide better coverage and better assistance and easier work. Indeed, this question will open when we are, I think, very soon we will meet not only here, but soon on a committee with a law that we will all be pleased with. The end of the solution is quite good, but if there are no replications of these solutions, the consequences that will also mean helping those civil organisations that are now actively and very profiled in dealing with violence and people facing violence will not be as profitable as they would have wanted to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u170	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. I watched Mr State Secretary at Mr Strovs' Ministry, and you watched a good part of it on the floor, and then later you saw yourself playing with your mobile phone. I hope that you have texted the Minister of Finance to support this amendment. Because you said no to the amendment on the committee, although the Constitutional Court also said that it would make sense to take a step forward. But you know, the policy that you are implementing in your field, in the field of disability protection, even in the field of family assistants, is a disastrous policy. And I would look not only at you for five minutes as the debate on this amendment takes, but at all times I would look down because I would be embarrassed to look up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u172	Mrs Žgajner Tavš, there is no need to be insulting, but one can still be convincing. We are moving to Social Protection and compensation for the restructuring of production. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Here we propose additional means for the implementation of the Act adopted in April 2006 on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos. Various societies and unions of the sick tell us that the law is not implemented when it comes to providing budgetary resources for the payment of experts, nor is the law properly and currently implemented on the content of retirement, as well as communication on the content of compensation. We therefore propose support for this amendment, which would allow for the implementation of the adopted law in this Chamber by increasing funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u174	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to Social Welfare, where we have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We are moving to Social Protection for the materially threatened - one amendment. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much. If there are any difficulties in Slovenia, they are certainly in protecting the elderly, providing vacancies in nursing homes, which we have already talked about a lot in the National Assembly. We are an ageing company, so I expected support for the amendment in the previous stages of the budget adoption process. I'm afraid that didn't happen. I didn't get the right answers. The explanation states which sub-programme or item should not be used for such reasons, but why not provide greater funds or at least minimum funds for this purpose. Finally, this National Assembly adopted a strategy for the protection of the elderly, a national programme, and there we committed ourselves to what we are going to do. This is not about whether we accept this programme at a normative level, it is about whether we respond to what is happening to us in our vicinity. More or less, surely at least a third of Members face the question of where to put their elderly parent, either their mother or their father. And because of an extremely large shortage of cities, it is impossible to do so. At least this minimal contribution I have made with the proposal would be good for the start of the construction of two or three homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u176	Thank you. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u177	Very short. In the DeSUS Group with our hands open, we support the construction of old people's homes. We doubt that the motioner meant everything he suggested because he opposed this construction when he was a minister. But we are opposed to taking on the victims of war violence.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u178	Thank you. I'm concluding. And we are moving on to Public and Social Protection Development Programmes. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move to the Ministry of Health, first to the sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals, where we have two amendments. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u179	Thank you very much again. I hope, Mr President, that you will not say that I am insulting again when I say that someone has obviously stolen the money from this Government; he has stolen the $5 million already secured in the 2004 budget, 2005. This money has miraculously disappeared to an unknown place. And you know what they say at the Ministry that the papers just got lost. Tell me what this is other than a place. The money provided in the budget for the construction of the hospital was signed to build a new hospital, which is supposed to be a regional project, from a public-private partnership. The money was provided. There's no more money today. There is no response from the Government, by the Minister responsible for the Ministry. I said, where's the money? The money that was already provided in the budget and miraculously disappeared. That is why today there is an amendment before us, an amendment with which we do not last support only what the Government has already signed, to which the Government has committed itself to contribute financial resources to the construction of a regional hospital, in line with the Slovenian regionalisation project. That's all. We're actually helping the government make its promise come true.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u181	Thank you very much. It's not surprising that this is happening at the Ministry of Health. I would only ask for support from the amendment, which adds a new EUR 5 million to the investment in hospitals. I would comment only on the explanation given by the Government that it allocates €7.5 million more in 2007 and 2008. I would only remind the Slovenian public, given that the government knows that in 2005 the budget rebalanced EUR 11 million on this item. And I express my concern. What we can hear and read in the media, what is happening in the field of healthcare, just follow the fate of the Clinical Center, the fate of the Oncology Institute, and if today we can monitor that the call for equipment for the Neurological Clinic has been cancelled, of course, all the promises made to regulate the field of haematology within the Clinical Centre, which is very closely linked to the relocation of the neurological department. So in the area of health, there is still real confusion. To subdue that confusion. Of course, on the opposition's proposal, several amendments were tabled for 2008 and coalition MPs followed the amendments and made their own - for certain investments in the Maribor University Clinical Centre. But, look at the fraction, in 2009, stopping some projects and not financing them in the Continuity, taking funds without aligning priorities with the Director of the Clinical Center. Here we are talking about the chaos of investing in hospital health care, and no one today can claim that the funds are enough. That is why I propose: let us devote a sufficient amount of additional resources to this area if we want to benefit Slovenian health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much, for the last time. There is no time to explain why, but I have a task to say that the DeSUS Group will support the amendments for greater investment in hospitals, especially for the hospital in the Rippers - and the amendments have been elaborated by others, but I do not have time to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u184	Thank you. Anyone else? Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u185	Thank you very much. There's just one more explanation I'd like to give. You know, yesterday, a colleague of Puksic said in a very strong debate he had had, that the government coalition would also accept the opposition amendments. It's written in a magnetogram. I regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia no longer has time because it would like to receive answers. For the review of the updated draft budget for 2009 states that the Government of the Amendment, which we have prepared in the National Party, does not support. I wonder how much and what those amendments that we will support today are, of course, without the government's majority we cannot do in the opposition. I ask again and ask the competent person who is sitting today, I'm sorry that the Minister is not here. Although I have already asked her about this matter at one of the previous meetings in the parliamentary question, I did not get an answer. I want to explain and I want the government to commit itself morally for once to correct the mistake it has made. Therefore, I ask you once again to reconsider and not least to ask your support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u186	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're moving to the environmental and chemical safety area of health care. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u187	I've already said today that the problems of the future are related to security. If you look at any research today that deals with the issue of values in society, but I do not speak only in Slovenia, there is no freedom in the first place, as usual, either in the past or in our youth. Today's the first day as the ultimate value of security. Security in a broader sense, not only in the sense that we understand it after 11 September, but also environmental security, security to a peaceful age, to a safe age, to stay and also to safe food. We have so far had a well-developed way of financing, of maintaining safe food, with the help of European funds, but, given the end of this programme, the code has also expired, if I say so, within which it is easier, more precisely and significantly safer to think about safe food and feed. It's not just an inspection, it's a lot more. We propose that this code or that this item remain, regardless of the fact that the cooperation project with European funds has been completed, but that this remains as a normal and logical duty of care for how safe organisms and the environment will be preserved through safe food. In this sense, I don't particularly need to stress that this kind of amendment is trying everything, but not just one that we're sitting here and the other that's sitting there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u188	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then we're going to the programme, Mr. Germich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u189	Thank you. Are we talking about the amendment to the Health and Safety Programme?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u190	Thank you. We are moving to the sub-programme Programmes for the protection and strengthening of health, reducing health differences and developing research activities. Is that what you wanted? Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I'd just like to warn you. In these contexts, the level of resources in relation to the estimated implementation of the 2007 budget, which is 11.5 million, is reduced to 9.5 million for 2009. So we are taking €2 million for food policy programmes, for transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions operating on preventive protection and health enhancement, reducing health differences and development and research activities. So we're reducing the funds that we're assessing in the Liberal Democracy so that it can be the most effective. So we are reducing prevention so that we can have significantly more needs where costs are significantly higher, and this is in the treatment process. We therefore propose that we reduce this trend and add additional funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u192	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Not]] Then we move to the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is the sub-programme of Higher Education. We have an amendment. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u193	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I think that this amendment should be accepted if we really think that Slovenia is a knowledge-based society. In fact, all three Rectors of Public Universities in Slovenia, who has more than 100.00 students, say they have serious problems in providing a quality study process. Because they have no finances, it makes it impossible to complete the Bologna renovation. These things have already appeared many times in the country, they have said, but as far as I can see, this government, instead of listening to these problems that are developing in the Republic of Slovenia, prefers to invest in cannons, says instead of butter we support cannons. The coalition also took money from cannons to build roads, which means there was too much money. I would certainly appeal to this: if we like this country to support at least this amendment and allow for a qualitative overhaul of the study programmes following the Bologna Declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u194	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then we move to elementary school, where we have three amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think that this amendment is in sequence, if we look at the entire mandate, I will say, as a regular associate of the opposition's amendments when it comes to the budget proposed by this Government, is said to be the Government of Mr Janez Janša. In recent times there have been a lot of talks about education, and last but not least, we have been able to see in the media that this government has crossed through the northeast of Slovenia and has opened a number of buildings, schools, such as schools and different ones. But I'm wondering if this government -- and it's enough to nod if you don't have a word -- has crossed to the elementary school in the Song. This is a school where the obstacle is falling away, where the visit to this school is no longer safe. We've heard that there are windows in some schools where nails are stuck inside, and that's one of those kind of schools, and I believe you're not nodding, but I hope you've visited it. And why I said in general work that the budget is politically oriented, because between the five amendments when it came to the budget, in 2008, the elections, not in 2009, supported the three amendments of the coalition when it came to investment in primary education, but not the two amendments of the opposition. I am interested in what coalition schools or schools from which coalition MPs come are worth more than opposition schools. However, if we put pictures of these schools on these tables today, we would see that these are much better arranged than those for which we are proposing amendments, and that these are our more needed renewals, plus that both amendments of the Slovenian National Parties foresee less money for school renewal than those three amendments of the coalition. But give me this distinction to at least try to tell, if not otherwise, tomorrow or whenever at ZIPRO, the President will tolerate if you start answering the questions of opposition Members, that is nonsense, but it is true, the elections are 2008, because 2009, because in 2008 you supported everything you thought local, there is no amendment. That's the answer. And now you can all, together, nod that I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u196	Thank you. Anyone else? Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I myself wrote with my colleague Barovic the amendment that we tabled in the 2008 budget as well as in the 2009 budget, as it is obvious that we have not been successful in the 2008 budget. Why - I have no idea. Those of you who have looked at it would also be good if one of the ministries were there, the school for which we are investing in the budget in the Slovenian National Party would today support the amendment. The school was built in 1972. Some of you will say yes, but that's a good 30 years. But the fact that this school is the first in Slovenia to be built with some new methodology or that it is a editing house, a boarding school which after 30 years and several years is no longer safe. It's not safe anymore. You know, when the Ministry was alerted to the problem of treblje primary school, this is the primary school in Trbovlje, when the Ministry was warned, instead of going to see the problem, instead of going to 100% private school funding under the legislation, it sent an inspection to treblje primary school that the municipality of Trbovlje will pay the penalty because the school is no longer safe. It's cynicism, extreme cynicism of this government, respected colleagues and colleagues! Not a month ago, when we listened to how, I'll say, the generous government is in the field of primary education. But I'm asking -- in the field of what primary education? The one on which the capital stands, or the one that falls within the framework of a public sector, is a public good. It amounts to EUR 250 000, only EUR 250 000 in funding in 2005, which the municipality of Trbovlje would need bloodyly. I will remind Madam Secretary of State, although she now listens to me with a smile on her face because I know I will not be effective, but I would like to remind her that since 1972 there have been about 1,000 students going to this school every year. This figure increased to 2045 in 1989 due to the reorganization. Once again, I would like to remind her that this is a montage house, which in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 needs to be rebuilt, not only partially, but fully restored because of the safety of our children who go to public school, respected by the Secretary of State. No smile! It's pathetic, it's pathetic, it's sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u198	Mrs Žgajner Tavš, I must say again, there is no need to be offensive if you want to be convincing. Anybody else want to talk about it? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u199	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. I believe that both schools, both the school in Pesnica and the school in Trbovje, are urgently in need of your assistance from the government. Finally, child safety is a priority that must be common to all of us, no matter where we come from. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia obviously cannot be affected, given that all these facts are rejected with a smile, because the right to speak no longer exists, I will try to refer to you, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the National Assembly. Above all, my very influential fellow Member, who comes from this district where this school is located. I am thinking, of course, of Mr Marijan Pojbič, that with his great authoritarian influence in his party, the ruling Slovenian Democratic Party, he will influence you, colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, and we will jointly support the two amendments of the Slovenian National Party for the resolution of the problems faced by children attending these schools. I would point out once again that we will all, together with this powerful man, who comes from the largest government party, make schools safe for children, and that is our greatest goal, as well as to him who is unfortunately not here today, I don't know why. But for his influence and your understanding, we thank you in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u200	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the sub-programme Help in primary education. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to Help in secondary school, where we have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to the Ministry of Culture, first of all to the sub-programme Art Programmes. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u201	If I take over all the amendments, both the Really Group and others, who unfortunately can't advertise anymore, well, the Social Democrats are gone, the LDS is out of time, and I don't think we'll be able to make any difference if I say what we really think or amendment, even on your behalf. In the area of culture, we deal with a number of areas that are different from those prescribed by law, or as dictated by conscience, or even self-confidence, which the Government has repeatedly hidden in this area. One question that I have already discussed today is how to reduce the resources available to the Minister of Culture or the Minister of Culture and can be available to them when it comes to so-called intervention funds. Since the practice this year, last year and last year has shown itself, and these extracts are accessible, either as a matter of sufficient will or as a matter of imprudent action, which ultimately brings the Minister himself into embarrassment, we propose that these funds be distributed where there are calls for proposals - not all of them, I apologize, not all of the funds from the so-called Minister's reserve, but those that have grown to too many and certainly senseless dimensions and therefore there are anomalies. As I say, it is not only about the Slovenian Matrix, it is not just about the mayors, it is not just about certain magazines, it is not just about certain rehabilitations of certain film projects and so on. The other area we're amending is the media. My colleague Grimes himself was in favour of an amendment when we were dealing with the media law, which was created as a solution to some commitment to the directive to ensure that the law co-finances the audio-visual field, that is to say the area that certain media, electronic media, must cover due to the conditions they must meet. It is co-financing, of course through a public invitation to tender, artistic programmes, educational programmes, documentary films, scientific and humanist films and so on, and by signing the cross-border television directive also Slovenia, that Slovenia has decided to ensure that these programmes, which are in some way threatened by commercial programmes, will be quickly accessible, easily accessible and in some ways also those programmes that are the easiest to buy I apologize, but my colleagues would continue the story outside as you have done in the morning. [[...]] In short, these programmes are regulated in Slovenia in such a way that they are co-financed by the state, because the country wants to have them to protect its interests. And when we committed ourselves to this, we signed such a directive and also introduced the possibility of supporting it into the media law. They were not supported in an optimal relationship in the past, so I say that Comrade Grims agreed and also supported such an amendment, where the law spells out the exact limits of the resources needed to do so, but does not. There's no such funds! Now, Mr Grimes. In view of the fact that you have co-formed the law, including this supposed to ensure that the funds must be, then you must simply ensure that the funds reach. In this context, we are correcting the legal obligation that the Ministry of Culture has entered into the budget, not for 2008 nor for 2009. But marriage is hard to break, so I'm counting on you to support it. Especially since the Fund for the pluralisation of media or so-called fund, as you would say, or the budget fund for media pluralisation, had money before the law was even adopted. In short, that billion was immediately available, split up, immediately, today was split. Evaluation of how to share and whether really need all those who point out on the outside that they have no money problems, given that they are dealing with "jumbo posters", by co-financing various content, well-standing economic houses, which we know are all except public RTV, in private property. In short, this co-financing is not problematic and, as far as necessary, it would be extremely desirable to discuss and possibly evaluate what the effects of this billion, for which there is never a problem in the budget, what the effects of these billions are, would be good to have answers, because clearly no one wants this billion to be reflected only in political effects. The next amendment in the field of culture also deals with the agency, the agency that we sent to life last week, which you were all excited about, which had so many good thoughts and good words and good wishes and sometimes also an engrossed atmosphere. If we have arranged this agency in such a way that it has gained its autonomy throughout the world, in short, if the world is now, or that body that will make a major decision on politics and also on the resources within the library and publishing industry, we all know that that famous article 11 you - I don't have the list that Mr Grims normally has when he tells and shows who voted for whom, but when you supported him in the time of previous governments that it is necessary to pay back the book, that is not the case with this law on the public agency. I believe that the difficulties were how to arrange such a pair of fund-raising methods. After all, there was no harmonisation here even in the film when such a couple of arrangements were proposed, when a fee from sold video cassettes and tickets for cinematographers returned to cinema, it also did not settle in the cultural heritage, when we said on the model of a very successful Croatia we would collect a fee so that cultural heritage would be restored faster in cities and elsewhere. In short, these finances are tight here. They say they're probably advocating an integrated budget. It's nothing new, but it's been eaten up that we have a way to get this agency, talk about the book, to get those funds back. That is to say, if we are to remain on budget funding, then these funds, which have been said to be supported once by the opposition, must then be invested to the extent that the tax is collected from the book. It's kind of a compromise that I think makes sense, which I think is fair. And those who have a mouthful of love for culture don't have a problem with it for sure. These are two amendments from our fellow Members, which, of course, we have not specifically tabled, because we have seen that this has already been arranged and that we normally represent this. There is another area that we have addressed in Indeed, which we have asked ourselves, and we do not yet have a good answer to the question, but in the budgetary discussion, the debate, of course, this also needs to be clarified. For some time now, or a great deal of money has been invested [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u202	Mrs. Shirca, I would like to ask you which subroutine you will now discuss. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u203	I'm sorry. I went in line, culture. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u204	You run from one to the other and I don't know what to do. Should I go back or should I skip two points forward or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u205	Mr. Cukjat, I've taken over the entire culture. I'm just gonna hang up, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u206	I'd like to ask because others are confused, too, and I'd like to ask again. Do you have anything else to say to the art program, because then we'll go to the media?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u207	I do not have to add to the artistic programmes what I have said, in short, to reduce to a reasonable extent the Minister's reserve and to add funds to a loving culture that we all know about, because all Members and Members of Parliament have been asked to understand it more freely. And I'm not going to talk to the media subroutine and audiovisual culture, because I've explained the amendment, and I'm not going to take any further notice of Librarianism and publishing because I'm past your will, but somehow with the logic of covering the entire area, I've taken it myself. I'm sorry for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u208	Thank you. Anyone else on the art program and the amendment to this program? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move to Media and Audiovisual Culture. We have an amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to Library and Publishing. We have two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to Lover Culture, where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Shirca, please. Lover's culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u209	Just once again, I would like to emphasise that a more maneuverable environment would allow for a greater degree of cultural space, of course this amendment has also been tabled in the event that a cultural toll will be exhausted. Last week we heard that this will not be so that in 2008 we should extend the so-called cultural euro, which I am pleased to do. I would be even more pleased if the Minister's promise to harmonise this extended law would take place at all levels. It's made, not just at the level of the coalition. At the same time, I would point to another anomaly. While the funds for the culture are extremely small, it is estimated that there could be very much money for something that is not in any national cultural programme, the NPK is a celebrity that is not in any resolution and which is not in any coalition contract only in the programme of any political parties, and it has been in the budget programme for many years now, when the state has been supporting research to build another Keopsian pyramid in Slovenia. That is why there has been quite a bit of money so far in 2006 and I see that it is also my wish that this funding for the research of this project should continue in 2008 and 2009. In 2009, we would like this not to be the end of the budget, Members voted in the past for this project, I think quite shortsighted. For 2007 and 2008, in short, there are no more reasons, except if for so many years and if for so much money, you are exploring for so long what this airport is supposed to look like, you have to explore something and come up with some specific knowledge. We have one breakthrough, which was set at the very beginning, when this project somehow appeared secretly within the budget lines to cost 60 billion tolars. Thus began this air museum, which is to be built somewhere under Nanos, regardless of the fact that the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia strongly opposes and the Ministry of the Environment does not say anything about it. In short, this project for 60 billion former tolars is evaluating, the economy is said to unite, no one knows how much the country will give, how much the economy will give. No one has said yet whether or not we really need it in Slovenia or maybe we would not have built this unfortunate NUK earlier, the National University Library, which does not cost 60 billion, but certainly already has enough requirements to build it once. In short, in the ZARES Group, we do not think that we need such nebulosis, to support, the Minister of Culture himself has promised on the committee, and I have even understood that it is like a lapsus, that it is co-financing this research, study, popularization and so on in 2009 and that it will withdraw. He did not withdraw this, nor did he say where those funds went for 2007, which were not created as a study, because, after all, no one knows these studies, except for the great wishes for a national vision, certainly too large, especially at a time when we have not built the necessary projects for the nation in those 16 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u210	Thank you. Anyone else on the amateur culture or amendment to this subroutine? [[Nobody.]] Then we have another sub-programme: investment in culture. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Not so much as this last amendment, especially in this spirit, that the story of the last budget is repeated. I believe that certain needs are certainly in different areas and that there is a need for more means that they can also be justified. But it's hard to understand that you're all looking for resources at the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. Whether this army is so poor or has too much resources, at the same time some parliamentary groups say how this military country or government is taking money. What's here now? Where's the consistency? Once and for all, in the same group of Members! I think it's irresponsible, it's unfair of the amendment's proponents to say one thing on the one hand, but they're making their amendments totally different. Let's be honest, let's just say it! Despite the fact that we want us, as well as all of you Members, there are still additional resources for individual areas that can be justified and probably sit, but 90 or 80% of amendments are exclusively from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. But when we passed the Slovenian Army Act here, I remember the opposition's members at the time, when they said there was not enough money, there is none of it. Today, these Members are taking the money of the Slovenian Army. You don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u212	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the amendments to the 2009 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments tabled will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I hereby conclude this part of the debate. We are moving on to ADVANCEMENT OF THE DRAFT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES OF THE SUPPLEMENTED BUDGET PROPOSAL FOR 2009. I'm opening applications for discussion. Please sign up for anyone you want to discuss. There's no sign-in. This concludes the debate. On Wednesday, 28 November 2007, in the framework of the votes, we will decide on the 2009 Development Programme Plan of the updated draft budget, in line with the meeting's timing. We are moving on to the debate on the supplementary budget proposal for the year 2009 as a whole. Before interrupting this item on the agenda, I ask, does anyone else want a word on the updated draft budget for 2009 as a whole? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The updated draft budget for 2009 will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! A year ago, at the time of the adoption of the 2008 budget, I told you that before any proposal for amendments and additions to the 2008 Budget Implementation Act, the Government would thoroughly examine the assessments of possible changes in the expected macroeconomic scenario, to re-examine the expected effects of reducing public spending on the basis of the legislation just adopted, as well as the expected effects of additional legislative changes that were still in preparation and all other options for providing sufficient funding in 2008, without the need to increase the VAT rates. A year later, after the government re-examined the economic situation of Slovenia, at the presentation, this year at the presentation of the 2008 and 2009 budget memorandum, I assured you that no increase in the VAT rate would be necessary. The Public Finance Act provides that the specificities relating to the implementation of the budget will be regulated by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which is the subject of today's treatment, by a certain year. In discussing the annual law, it should be borne in mind that the main objective of the proposed law is to enact solutions that will allow for the smooth implementation of the adopted law. The law on the implementation of the budget sets out the extent of the country's debt and the permitted guarantees, the extent of the public sector's debt at the level of the State and each year, and also governs the specific powers of the Government and the Ministry responsible for the finances. In particular, the powers to redistribute spending rights in the adopted budget and to entrust the Government with a fiscal stabiliser are important. Let me stress that the proposed law does not change the essential substance of the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2007 and 2008. Among the assigned revenue and expenditure, the law, inter alia, new recognition of the revenue received by Slovenia on the basis of contracts concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and non-EU countries and used only in the manner specified by the donor. In addition to this proposed law, it confers on the service responsible for local self-government and regional policy the power to decide on reallocations between the budget lines of regional infrastructure, namely local roads, regional infrastructure, land equipment and regional policy or municipality. Such legality seems reasonable, as it is only introduced to redistribute spending rights between the budgetary lines of the regional infrastructure. The proposed law introduces an exception as a novelty and provides that the State's liability for damages resulting from a misjudgment of the judge shall be borne by the law's resources. Such legislation makes sense because the judge must decide impartially, which is provided only in the event that the obligations are not paid at the expense of the court's assets. The proposal also slightly changes in the current annual law a certain amount of debt and the scope of the envisaged guarantees, as well as the amount of decommissioned resources to municipalities and the level of remuneration in accordance with the applicable Law on the Financing of Municipalities. In addition to that law, it provides that no amendments to the 2010 budget shall be submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly in 2008 for the reason that parliamentary elections will take place in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, regardless of what has already been said, we believe that it will be necessary to submit to the National Assembly a draft amending budget for 2009, in particular for the purpose of introducing the provinces, if this legislation is actually adopted in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u214	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee of Mr Starman to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I say hello to everything! At its 33rd meeting on 24.11., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget in the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The meeting was attended by the Minister responsible for finance, representatives or representatives of the Government of the Finance Ministry and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. As additional working material, the assembly received a review of the amendments tabled by qualified applicants, namely the amendments of the LDS Group's amendments to Articles 29, 40 and 42 of 3.10.2007, the amendment of the Zares Group's amendments to Article 29 of 16.10.2007 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party's Party's Group of Ambassadors and the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group to Article 26 of 21.11.2007. Proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service were also included in the review of the amendments. The Legislative and Legal Service has made comments on certain articles that are reflected in the report itself. Subsequently, after the discussion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that these amendments to the Committee take due account of these warnings. Following the discussion, according to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the provision of Article 112 of the legislative proposal was specifically raised and the amendment of the Committee was supplemented in the direction indicated. In conclusion, it was submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service that individual editorial corrections should be included in the text already in the drafting phase of the amended proposal, namely Article 20, Article 22, paragraph 6, and Article 22, paragraph 2, paragraph 2. It follows from the explanation of the legislative proposal that taking into account the specific legal nature of the law in question constitutes a direct condition for the implementation and smooth implementation of the State budget, by analogy in material legal terms, the text, in addition to the extent of the debt or the eligible resources of the State itself, also sets out the extent of the public sector's debt at that level in a given year. The Committee adopted amendments that were proposed as amendments to the Committee and also adopted the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to the 26th Article, the amendments of the LDS Club to the 29th, 40th and 42nd did not accept, nor did the Zares Group's amendments to the 29th Article. The amendments that have been voted on are regulated by a complementary proposal for a law, which we propose that the National Assembly also adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u216	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Trophynik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to all present. The Budget Implementation Act, like any law of previous years on the same content, is also submitted by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2009 and 2008, in particular a technical law defining the necessary procedures for the implementation of the annual budget. Moreover, in some parts it is also a deep substantive law, in particular in the definition of the corresponding assets of the fourth public treasury, that is to say, the derogated funds of the municipalities, the amount of the debt and the state budget, the amount of the guarantees, the sale of the state budget, such as the actual, I think, state property, both real and financial. And something else. In view of the proposed text of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2008 and 2009, we would like to draw attention in particular to the following, in our opinion, controversial provisions. First time. The decommitment to municipalities, the income, for 2008, increases by 4.8% in the global year 2007, with only 3.5% increase in the average, which is significantly lower than the increase in the balance of income remaining in the budget, this increase, 19.8%. The situation is similar for 2009. The revenue remaining in the State budget increases by 20% after the budget documents submitted and the discounted income to the municipalities in the global by only 7.6% and by an average of only 5.7%. The second point relates to the projected national budget debt quota. In our parliamentary group, we have proposed an amendment to reduce this anticipated quota of permitted debt, which, according to our opinion, is absolutely too large, in particular taking into account the public financial situation or if you want the conditions. As a result, we do not expect a change, as it is not realistic to expect that decisions on this amendment at the plenary session itself would be different from those on the working body. Our third point concerns the excessive and, I am afraid, harmful powers to increase the power to redistribute funds between individual budgetary purposes, in particular what was also highlighted in the introduction, in the area of regional infrastructure. The fourth point concerns the provision of funds for the salaries of trainees and secondary staff in the health sector. In this area, the law provides that these costs are transferred in contravention of the basic law to the Health Insurance Office, which constitutes one danger that the financial situation in that institution will deteriorate and, in the end, threatens the rights of health insurance insurers and, more so, can be clarified later in the discussion. For this reason, perhaps because of what I have not specifically pointed out, we cannot support the implementation of the budget in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u218	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u219	Your Honors are here! We do not consider the National Party Group to be a technical law when we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. According to our assessment, it is also a content law, and above all it is a law that could be referred to as the reallocation of budgetary resources or additional powers to the Ministry of Finance. According to my personal assessment, this violates not only the constitutionally defined category of authority in our country, so that the National Assembly is the legislator and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only the executor of its tasks. According to our assessment of such matters as the law that is before us today, we are seriously interfering with the constitutional principle of the division of power. The second fact that I would like to follow is that it would probably be much more reasonable if we met only with the 2008 Budget Implementation Act at this time, because the fact is that this act is precisely because of its title of 2009 and we are still meeting or supplementing it, which means we are changing it. However, I would like to highlight some essential elements, despite the fact that I know that such elements will not be included in the cleansing of this law. Firstly, in the context of the general provisions of the definition of the terms in Article 1, it is necessary to define, in addition to the enforcement of the State guarantee, the decommissioned resources of municipalities and the average, last but not least, the conditions of State-owned enterprises and what I believe would still need to be defined in that law, i.e. the purchases from the sale of state property. The fact is that this act before us at this time - I apologize - is of course ignoring it. Why is she ignoring? According to my assessment or because of the misrepresentation that stems from the past actions of this and the previous government, especially in the pursuit of imprudentness. Furthermore, in applying the meaning of the terms used, I think that, insofar as we wish to pursue legal debates not only on public financial debates, we should define and no longer in the Ministry of Finance's domain the definition of the concept of budgetary user and, last but not least, the purchase of state-owned property. The fact is that this is in the domain, so let it be a user, budgetary as an example of the Roman Catholic Church, which the Ministry of Finance claims is not. Otherwise, in fact, we all know that, on the basis of the existing laws and obligations imposed by those laws to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the only one. Given that there are quite a few comments, I will only touch on those articles which I think give excessive authority to the Ministry of Finance. This is referred to in Article 7, so that new items are allowed to be opened during the year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the legislative branch of the Authority and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this way discredits not only the debate around the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for any year, but also takes into account that crucial element, this is the decision-making of individual end-users of public finances. In Article 14, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appoints it to act to balance the budget in 2008 and 2009. This is nothing more than an additional debt, and we think that such non-transparent ways or beautifully sounding words in brackets written before the content of an individual article are the same as before, the total ignorance of the National Assembly and thus the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the reallocation of spending rights decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 18 of our assessment, they are overly lax, as well as the content of Article 21, where the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are further authorised throughout the entire indent. At the same time, I would point out, according to my assessment, almost my own religious wish, that is to say that at least we would commit the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the National Assembly of all activities in one of the calendars. But unfortunately, we don't mean that much to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The reservations of the DeSUS Group are not so large as to raise concerns about the necessary support for the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We understand it as much as a twin to the budget as his back and we believe that, or we know, that the budget would be under the moratorium if we did not also have the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This law implements the budget, the law of solutions and without these solutions, it would not be possible to implement the legal obligations, the obligations set out in the Treaties, the commitments contained in the plans of the development programmes, the budgets of the municipalities could not be financed and so on and so on. What this law makes possible must be implemented in a current manner, so that there are no excessive distortions, and we therefore believe that it is right to adopt it simultaneously with the budget and to accept it in an urgent manner. The Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia sets out the composition, the method of execution, the extent of the debt of guarantees, also sets the average and decommissioned resources, as we have already heard today, and all of this is a prerequisite for the normal functioning of the fourth cash register, i.e. the functioning of the municipalities in our country. However, the law allows both the Government and the Ministry of Finance to take action in the event that something unexpected happens when the situation changes by retaining any implementation with a single consumer or by allowing the implementation of programmes that would otherwise not have been implemented by using a fiscal stabiliser. While we have heard that the budget is to be withdrawn or radically modified from the foundation so that, in the view of the pro-cyclical proposer, it becomes countercyclical, but I believe that these wishes will not be heard and that, therefore, the Budget Act or budget will be adopted and that we therefore also need a law on its implementation. The DeSUS Group will therefore support him without undue delay. Although we have not heard some warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, it would be better if all opinions were taken into account and we did not overlook the warnings proposed by the amendments to the articles listed on 29th, 40th and 42nd. We don't all evaluate these amendments equally. We believe that the scope of the loan is still acceptable and that the Government and the coalition have decided that this year and the next year it will not primarily favour budgetary reserves, but rather to carry out projects from the Development Programme Plan. We estimate that it is possible to defend the financing of secondary and traineeships, as proposed by the Government, and we also agree with the Government's interpretation of the Government's non-inclusion in these budgets of funds, or in areas that are not yet in place, and we believe that it is right not to go ahead with the two-year budget before the next year's elections are held. Therefore, these are also the reasons why we have not supported these amendments and why we will support the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The Budget Implementation Act is an integral part of the budgets for 2008 and 2009, which we adopt today and tomorrow, and a mandatory component for their implementation. Law on the implementation of the budget [[or shorter ZIPRIS]] legalises solutions that will allow for the smooth and ongoing implementation of the budgets adopted. The Law on the implementation of the budget is divided into ten chapters, from the general provisions on the composition of the budget, the basic chapter on the implementation of the budget, the extent of the country's indebtedness and guarantees, and the public sector and debt collection, the chapters on the management and sale of financial assets, the scope of the debt, the chapters on the derogations to municipalities, the availability of funds for salaries, the chapters on the coordination of contractual obligations, the specific provisions and the end of the transitional and final provisions. As an interesting point, let me say some of the information contained in the draft Law on the implementation of the budget. Chapter 5 speaks of the extent of the indebtedness, and it is therefore appropriate that I also give some figures. In 2008, the country intends to owe €1.5 billion in debt under the proposal and in 2009 it is significantly less, almost half, than €868,000 and several more. Chapter 6 regulates the financing of municipalities, which provides for an amount of income of 927 million for 2008 and several more euros, representing 10.46% of the total budget expenditure for this year. In 2009, 7.5% more income is allocated to the financing of municipalities, representing 998 and several euros in absolute value. Of course, the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia further limits and definitions and guidelines for the implementation of the budget for 2008 and 2009. Allow me to draw attention to currencies when paying for obligations that are relatively long and are, above all, not an example to the economy, which is certainly not good. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already announced support for the 2008 budget changes and for the 2009 budget, which is why we are also forecasting support for the 2008 and 2009 budget implementation Act of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u224	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u225	Mr President, Members and Members, citizens and citizens. Everything we are doing today and what we are going to do tomorrow in the vote on the amendments is completely irrelevant under the provisions of the Budget Implementation Act. The Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009 gave the Government, to a certain extent, a substantive change in the definition of terms and a different text on the redistribution of rights of use, the possibility that today's existing amendments or tomorrow's vote by the coalition and others on the application of the amendment will be enforced, whether or not. In its plan, the direct user may, without limitation, redistribution of spending rights under the same sub-programme. Then it can make 15% between programmes and 3% at the level of the entire state budget. In almost a month and a half of the ongoing debate on the state budget in the National Assembly, this budget has changed by half a percent of the gross domestic product, or if you want for about a percentage and a half, 1.6% of the state budget. But the government can change this budget by up to 3%, so once again. That's the first one. So, regardless of the efforts made by the current Minister of Finance, when he was still an opposition Member, the government has a much greater chance of actually respecting or not respecting the will of the National Assembly. Second, the story of the so-called decommissioned funds of the municipalities. You will vote today by confirming this ZIPRO. We are opposed to this ZIPRO. Continued unconstitutionality of Article 8 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities in 2009. Today, however, you will vote that in 2008 and 2009, the share of income will fall to 42% for the municipalities, which has fallen to 42% in 2007. The municipalities should, if the texts on principal and decommissioned resources were such as to reflect economic growth at a better rate of around 7 times 23 million, about 150, 160 million euros. This option has been made possible by the closing of the ZIPRO articles by members of the ruling coalition. And thirdly, this ZIPRO is primarily, when we look at the numbers, the law on increasing debt. The government of the Republic of Slovenia says, because our debt share in GDP is falling. But look at the numbers. The possibility of an additional €573 million in 2008; an additional €868 million in 2009; and an additional €43 billion in 2008; and an additional €160 in 2009. If you include this, this is an additional €4.5 billion option of direct or indirect indebtedness of the State and its associated institutions. Therefore, to say that this ZIPRO, together with the budget, Slovenia in 2008-2009, as economists say, will in some way calm this cooked economy, of course it will not do so, but this ZIPRO, with the figures envisaged therein, is primarily a very pro-inflationary legislation that clearly expresses the high inflationary expectations raised by ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to fulfil such or other local and other promises. We, in the Group of Social Democrats, do not support the proposal for amending the 2008 budget and therefore [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] also support the amendment or ZIPRA, which thus regulates the Slovenian national economy in such a pro-inflation manner. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u227	Nicely greeted. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have paid special attention to the State's debt under Article 29 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. We believe that the amount to which the State may owe in the claim and investment financing account and the repayment of debts in the financing account should be the same as in 2009. For this reason, we have proposed a reduction in the amount of the debt in 2008 from one billion €573,000 to 868 000. Unfortunately, the amendment was not adopted, and our thought was misunderstood. In doing so, we continue to argue that, at a time of high economic growth, the country should create surpluses and reduce the level of indebtedness. The proposed article 29, however, gives the Government room for greater debt, which, according to our belief in the electoral year, will also make ample use of it. In Article 40 of the Law on the implementation of the budget, the Government stated that, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing the medical service and the law governing the medical activity, the doctors of trainees and secondary workers, these funds are provided by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The explanation states that this is an exception. In this case, we believe that the legal basis is clear. Provision of funds for the salaries of doctors of trainees and second-graders and other health professionals is governed by two laws - the Medical Service Act and the Health Activity Act, which states that funds provide for the state budget. This is a European practice, as the country must provide education and training for healthcare professionals as its original mission. However, the institution is obliged to finance only health services and certain monetary benefits, which are a right under compulsory health insurance, in accordance with the applicable rules. As a result, Article 40 of the ZIPR is disputed because it does not have a legal basis and it is our view that such redistribution of funds is illegal. Such a change on the revenue side could only be made if the laws mentioned above were amended. In this case, it is a matter of patching up the budget hole and transferring the liabilities to the institution, which is why we conclude that, as a result of the increase in these assets, the remaining rights to be granted by the institution will be reduced. For this reason, the Minister of Health will obviously have to propose to the Minister of Finance even an increase in the contribution rates to compulsory health insurance, as confirmed by the debate of the Secretary of State, Dr Žiberna, on the Committee on Health on 9.11.2007, when he told Members that it would be necessary to consider slowly raising the health contribution rate. Those are his words. With the increase in the rate of contribution, workers will be reduced net wages or, in the event of an increase in the rate of contribution, employers will have an increased burden on the economy and thus reduce economic growth. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we already pointed out the transfer of obligations from the state budget to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for the provision of funds for the salaries of trainees and secondary workers in health care. The result of these warnings and the failure to comply with these warnings is and will be a reduction in the scope of rights and a smaller number of second-hand workers as well. In the LDS Group, we attach to those who find that the Government, at the time of the consideration of the ZIPR for 2008 and 2009, has proven once again that it is unable to draw up a law that would not have received many comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, even though this has already been done for the third time. And because the government has not approved our proposals for amending Article 29, i.e. borrowing and Article 40, that is, secondary and medical interns. And because the Government does not want and does not seem to intend to correct the unconstitutional legal provisions on the financing of municipalities both in the budget and in the ZIPR, we will not support the 2008 and 2009 draft law on the implementation of the budget in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u229	Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we want to ensure the efficient and cost-effective use of budgetary resources in accordance with budgetary principles. Since it is virtually impossible without the adoption of the draft law on the implementation of the budget, we will support the bill. The basic content to be regulated by the law on the implementation of the budget for each year is defined in Article 5 of the Public Finance Act. Among other things, the extent of the indebtedness and all the envisaged State guarantees and the extent of the public sector's debt at national level must be determined. The ceiling is foreseen, i.e. the maximum allowable limit that the budget can reach in the event that the economic situation is changed. In the New Slovenia Group we advocate restrictive planning of public finances and even more rational behaviour of budgetary users. We are convinced that it is more important than determining the extent of the debt allowed, the economic behaviour of all budgetary users. In order to respond to the changed economic environment, however, the State and the Minister of Finance must have the appropriate leverage. The greatest threat to the implementation of the budget is the under-adaptability of budgetary expenditure to the macroeconomic environment. Debt is just one of these. The proposal of the Public Finance Act still retains other levers for balancing the budget in exceptional cases. Let me remind you of the financial stabiliser, the automatic balance sheet, as well as the temporary implementation of the budget and the balance sheet. These levers may be used by the Minister of Finance or Government within the limits of the powers laid down in the proposal for a law. For the first time, the draft Law on the implementation of the budget under the provisions of the new Law on the Financing of Municipalities also provides for the average and revenue of municipalities on taxes and other revenue of the state budget belonging to the municipalities. The appropriate amount of funding under the law for certain tasks of municipalities per capita was established for 2007 and 2008 by the Law on the financing of municipalities. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget in relation to the revised macroeconomic baselines sets a new average for 2008 and a whole new one for 2009. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the changed way of funding municipalities is especially more suitable and favourable for less developed municipalities and that the volume of funds allocated to municipalities continues to increase. Since the adoption of the draft Law on the implementation of budgets for 2008 and 2009, is essentially a condition for the implementation of budgets, we will support the proposal in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr Marijan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u231	President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Budget Implementation Act is in fact the first legally necessary law to be adopted in order to implement the budgets to which it relates and to enable the implementation of budgets to begin on its basis. This law sets out in particular the extent of the indebtedness and guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia and the whole public sector for 2008 and 2009. In general, we can say that the proposed law follows both budgets properly and takes into account all other laws in the field of budget and public finances in Slovenia. In the area of public finances, further efforts should be made to move from spending culture to investment culture. Funds for culture, education, science and the like may also be investments. We believe it must be made clear that there is an urgent demand for surpluses in public finances in the development cycle, a possible deficit resulting from the future of profitable investments, and there is no problem. Given that economic growth in Slovenia is very high and has more positive effects, it would make sense in 2009 to reduce or correct budget deficits by having a positive balance sheet. In particular, it is necessary to ensure that the country's long-term indebtedness decreases significantly under the Maastricht criteria. The government needs to monitor developments in the financial market and to reprogramme debt on an ongoing basis, and to reduce debt costs. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we find that budgets follow our guidelines in the field of public finances. From this point of view, of course, we will support the proposed law, which will allow the implementation of budgets for 2008 and 2009. However, we want to see a more restrictive public financial policy in the future, especially with further economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u232	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the summer schedule of non-removable assets of the State in individual value above EUR 300,000 for State administrations and for judicial authorities for the year 2008. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In March this year, the Law on Real Estate of the State, the Lands and the Communities entered into force, which has established a new and unified area or plan for dealing with the real property of the State, the provinces and the municipalities. That provision also re-organized the procedure for adopting an annual plan for the real estate of the State and the division of powers between the Government and the National Assembly. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Government, adopts an annual management plan with the property of the State for State administrations and judicial authorities for individual real estate assets of more than EUR 300,000 and the Government adopts an annual real estate management plan of less than EUR 300,000, on a proposal from the Ministry responsible for public administration. The government also sends this annual plan to the National Assembly. The proposal for a decree for 2008 contains 67 properties with a total indicative value of EUR 68 million, 781 thousand. In accordance with the economic plan, the draft decree includes those property owned by the Republic of Slovenia which none of the real estate managers of the State permanently need to carry out their duties. Of the total number 67 properties there are 32 business premises, 5 apartments and residential buildings, 14 plots and 16 other buildings. The Government has also drawn up a harmonisation amendment concerning the amount of the indicative value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u234	Thank you. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Hwauc, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At its 38th meeting, on 8.11.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a decree on the annual plan for the disposal of the country’s immovable property at a separate value of more than EUR 300,000 for public administrations and for judicial authorities for 2008 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of Article 11 of the Real Estate Act and the municipalities and Article 169a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the introduction, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration gave an additional explanation. On the basis of the written opinion of this service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also made comments. The main point was that there was no indication of its status in the proposal for a decision on any real estate. It also pointed out that, in the light of the clarity of the regulation, it would be appropriate to add in the footnote a method of making available, in particular, to those properties for which a free transfer is already provided for in the explanation of the proposal for a decree. The representative of the applicant further explained that the property status was defined in additional explanations and that they followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service a few years ago in the preparation of this Decision. The method of real estate management will be specified in the individual real estate management programme. The members of the Committee did not discuss the draft decision. The amendments of the DeSUS Group and the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2 have been tabled in the motion for a decree. The Committee then adopted all the articles of the motion for a decree and, as its committee, adopted the amendment to Article 2. An integral part of this report is a supplementary proposal for a decision prepared by the Committee by including all the amendments adopted in the draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u236	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u237	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Real Estate Act of the State, the Provinces and the Municipalities provides new rules on the real estate plans of the country, the provinces and the municipalities. Following the novel adopted this year, as we have heard, the National Assembly decides on the availability of a country's immovable property worth more than 300,000 euros per year and the Government decides on the property below that value. This provision is in the function of operational implementation of the programme, as we have witnessed in the past years when we also decided on symbolic values in the National Assembly, which of course there was no need. Indeed or immovable property of the State has been included in the so-called internal market for quite some time, which is good, since cases cannot happen as they have in the past, for example, when a ministry considered real estate unnecessary, sold it and then sold it by another ministry, the same property, in a year or two of the private owners, took it for their rental needs. In the parliamentary group, of course, we support the adoption of a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for public administrations and judicial authorities for 2008, for all 67 and 66 properties listed in this decree. Allow me a few more words around the individual elements that are on this list. I would particularly like to express my satisfaction with the interests that arise in individual local environments, that in the environment from which I come, after many years, it has regulated the status of certain former military properties, so that the craftsmen who have carried out their activities and took care of these facilities can continue to do this activity, provide work for themselves, family members and others, and I can commend that, through this decree, the activities of culture and museums can also be supported not only in the centre but also in the area of other local communities. I am also pleased that in this decree, the former collapsed house of the Yugoslav Army in Ilirska Bistrica, which is envisaged for the transfer to the municipalities in accordance with Article 77 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture for the needs of municipal public cultural infrastructure, and many other similar cases. These examples and other examples from other backgrounds are examples of good practice, examples of cooperation between the State and the municipalities, examples of the establishment of a partnership between the State and local authorities. What seems important to me, and also to our Group of Members, is that it is important in this respect that it is not just the pursuit of as high a purchase as possible, which is not even as important in these cases. It is, but not the priority, but the pursuit of this property being used in terms of promoting the development potential of local environments. The Group of Members, as I have said, supports the adoption of this Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u238	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President, and good evening to all colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber and representatives of the Government. The Social Democrats' Group, when reviewing the decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than €300,000 per capita for both the administration and the judiciary in 2008 and 2009, has actually reached a position or understanding that both decisions are in the air. Nor can we pass the bitter taste that the Government has placed on proposals for different sales of state property. Let me first mention the absence of a strategy to place state authorities in the environment. Of course, this task is very difficult, even more so because the government has not implemented the promised project on the provinces. Without a hint of bad news, we could speculate, as the government does, that thousands, 2,000, 5,000, or even 10,000 officials and professionals will be transferred to the provinces. Such changes represent tectonic movements in providing spatial conditions for the work of both provincial and national authorities. Since there are no provinces, it is not known how much space will actually be needed by the remaining officials in the state authorities to carry out their work and how much will officials and officials in the provincial authorities need it. Although the Government does not know whether and when the provinces will be, how many people will be assigned to work on the new bodies, without considering selling the business premises of the Ministry of the Interior in Stefanov, Ljubljana, for which it expects a purchase of EUR 10 million, not to list any other envisaged sales that have all the common denominators, in the sense that some of these sales will be available in the sense that some properties will be transferred free of charge to other persons of public law, such as the municipalities or perhaps, although not yet known, to any province. Logically, where will people now work in buildings that go for sale, in ministries, in courts, and so forth? Of course, the answer is simple because we have also seen plans for development programmes and envisaged construction or purchases for replacement facilities for all these bodies. But when we ask ourselves who's going to build these replacement properties, it's another story. The government wanted to fill the budget with this procedure and therefore authorised the consulting and management company, whose abolition, by the way, had frozen and through it envisaged the construction of a new building for the judiciary, amounting to EUR 70 million, and for the ministries, EUR 40 to 50 million. So the budget will go to dozens and tens of millions of euros. However, this DSU or the consulting and execution company is not any company. This is a company that was meant to be liquidated because of its de-facto tasks, and then suddenly the liquidation was stopped and it was established or created in this way, in fact, a budget by-pass. Let's just ask ourselves who actually runs this company's supervisory board and a lot of other things. The story of the sale of state real estate is also or is even more complicated. The government decides to sell real estate and the DSU agrees to build new buildings, so it is most ironic that the government will actually pay this company even the rent. Let someone who understands these things explain to me this way of selling, buying, building, etc. I sell, I credit, I pay rent, and someone else serves. Social Democrats, because of such machinations that the Government is doing through carefully distributed and hidden by-passes, will not be supported by a decision on the availability of real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u240	Thank you. Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u241	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The annual plan shall constitute an implementing document of the Government in the field of real estate management. Individual public authorities have a real estate management strategy that is the basis for the conclusion of legal transactions. Since it is necessary to reserve spending rights for the implementation of the annual plan in the State budget, the Government shall forward the annual plan for the real estate of the State to the National Assembly for information at the same time as the State budget proposal. The annual real estate plan is therefore divided into two parts: the annual real estate plan of up to EUR 300,000 per year, which is adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Public Administration and forwarded to the National Assembly, and the annual plan for the availability of the country's fixed assets at individual value of more than EUR 300,000, which is adopted by the Government on a proposal from the National Assembly. Both works therefore constitute a country's one-off plan on real estate management for next year, which is for 2008. The annual deployment plan shall include land and buildings which none of the state's real estate managers permanently needs to carry out their tasks. Their economic use cannot be guaranteed by renting and not by any other means of exploitation. The best practices are intended to be achieved by selling them or by free transfer of ownership rights. The annual deployment plan, which includes property in an individual indicative value of more than EUR 300,000 for 2008, is planned at a total indicative value of EUR 86 million 781 000 204. Of the total number of 67 properties, there are 16 properties, 32 business premises, 5 apartments and 14 plots. The proposal for an annual state-owned real estate plan was supplemented by the inclusion of real estates in a total indicative value of EUR 2 million 932 000 111 by excluding the property under order numbers 61 and 14, which had already been sold. The indicative value of the total amount, to be precise, is EUR 87 million 541 thousand 315. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the motion for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with the co-workers! The Real Estate Act of the State, the Provinces and the Municipalities has reorganized the procedure for the adoption of the Annual Real Estate Plan and has arranged for the division of powers between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly. The competence to adopt an annual plan for the country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per annum is under the competence of the National Assembly and the decision on the annual plan for the disposal of immovable property of up to EUR 300,000 under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the obligation to send the decision to the National Assembly. The Slovenian People's Party supports the proposal for a decree on an annual plan for the country's fixed assets of more than EUR 300,000 per annum for public administrations and judicial authorities for 2008, recommending that the sale be made in accordance with the rules, rules of procedure and good practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u244	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the only amendment that has been tabled, namely the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the summer schedule of the non-removable assets of the State in individual value above 300 000 euros for public authorities and for judicial authorities for the year 2009. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the government's representative. [[He doesn't want to.]] The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Srečk Hwauc, Vice-President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. At its 38th meeting, on 8.11. this year, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a decree on the annual plan for the country's fixed assets at a separate value of more than EUR 300,000 for the authorities of the State and for the judicial authorities for 2009 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 11 of the Real Estate Law of the State and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have listened to additional oral explanations, written opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service and also from the proposer. No proposals were tabled, no amendments were tabled, and the Committee adopted all the articles to the motion for a decree below. Since no amendments were adopted to the second reading ruling at the home labour body, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than EUR 300,000 per individual value for the public administration and for the judicial authorities for 2009, a single-phase procedure be adopted in the present text. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u246	Thank you. I now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the motion for a decree. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u247	Once again, hello to everyone. In order not to repeat ourselves, I think three quarters of the things I said in the 2008 decree are the same. And if I have previously expressed my appreciation, allow me to make a proposal in the light of this decree, which also applies to 2008 and can begin to take place in 2008. We know that this real or immovable property is managed through individual carriers, so we call ministries, organs in the composition, which is probably not the best. Notwithstanding this internal market, which I mentioned earlier, it would probably be good to reflect on the unifying of this operator, it is said that there is an authority that would be entirely over the efficiency of the management of this asset. What am I talking about? I am talking about the fact that individual ministries, whose priority function is not this part or this area, especially those ministries that have received many assets in the past in nature, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia is one of them, still has a very large number of empty buildings, especially apartments, as well as other facilities which are no longer in the function of ensuring the defence interests of the Republic of Slovenia. It would probably be right to make a real assessment as soon as possible of these needs, what is actually needed, what is not needed and what is not needed, and to get these properties, both housing and all other facilities, into function or in such a way as to sell or transfer them to municipalities where there is no such or different interest in accordance with the amended Real Property Act of the State, the Lands and the Communities, which is also enabled by the amendment of this Act. I think that this partnership that I spoke about earlier in the 2008 ruling would be upgraded in this way, and I think that the assets would be in the most operational function. In the parliamentary group, we support the adoption of a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of more than €300,000 per capita for public administrations and judicial authorities for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u248	Thank you. Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u249	Thank you again very much for your word. Your Honor! The proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate plan of more than €300,000 for public administrations and judicial authorities for 2009 is, as we have found, the same as the 2008 decision proposal, with the 2009 annual plan planned for the indicative value of €12 million 972 thousand 57 and containing 10 real estates, of which one facility, three business premises and six land. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a decree for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u251	Your Honor! I will be very brief in view of the fact that this is exactly the same for 2009 alone, of course with a different content, we will only say that the Slovenian People's Party supports the proposal for a decree on the country's annual real estate plan of over 300,000 per year for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u252	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment to the proposal for a decree has been adopted by the labour force of the mother, it is not possible to discuss the individual articles of the decree. The assembly will take a decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're going through six. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the Programme for the Sale of State Financial Assets for 2008 and 2009. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Mr. Minister, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted measures for the transparent and gradual withdrawal of the country from the economy and for the coordinated privatisation of the largest companies owned by the country. Therefore, all capital investments suitable for sale are included in this country's asset sales programme in addition to major companies, as they must be able to be sold under favourable market conditions. The programme also includes investments where the sale process is already under way. In accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, capital investments and the number of shares or business shares intended for sale or other disposal shall be included in the sales programme. The explanation of the individual capital investment is only indicative, since the inclusion in the adopted sales programme is a prerequisite for the sale process to begin at all. However, when the Commission is appointed to sell each capital investment, an individual sales programme shall be drawn up setting out the reasons for the sale and the objectives to be achieved by the sale, and the methods or means of sale by which these objectives will be achieved. Prior to the sale, the property being sold must also be adequately assessed in the decision of the preparatory acts. A decree on the sale programme of state assets for 2008 and 2009 includes such investments, which have been included in the decree for a number of years. Since the sales process is difficult and therefore is long-lasting, and in particular highly dependent on the market situation, individual capital investments have been included in the Sales Programme Decision for several years. For most of the capital investments included in the 2008 and 2009 Sales Programme Decree, sales procedures had already started in 2007. Let me mention that the first phase of the sale of the country's capital investment in the New Credit Bank Maribor and Telekom is currently being completed. As far as Telekom is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a separate programme for the sale of part of capital investment in Telekom Slovenije d.d. in 2007, with which the Government of the Republic will sell up to 49% of the share with KAD and SOD. The invitation to tender was published on 31.8.2007 and the deadline for the submission of non-binding tenders expired on 15.10.2007. After the selection of the narrower round of tenderers and carried out a thorough review of Telekom Slovenije d.d. In November and December, potential buyers will make binding offers, followed by the selection of the most favourable bidder and the signing of a contract with him in January 2008. As far as the New Maribor Credit Bank is concerned, you are aware that the procedure takes place in these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u254	Thank you. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected! At its 33rd meeting, on 24.11., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a decree on a programme for the sale of state-owned assets for 2008 and 2009, which it submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This programme shall include all capital investments that are eligible for sale as the possibility must be given to sell in the event of a favourable market situation. At the same time, in companies of strategic importance to the country, sales and other dispositions are limited by the fact that the country retains its decisive influence even after privatisation. The methods and procedures for the sale of capital companies by countries must be set in such a way that they can simultaneously achieve the key objectives of the sale of state property, which are, in addition to the maximum selling price and thus the budgetary revenues, the establishment of an ownership structure that will in the long term ensure effective competitiveness management and successful development. The Committee was given an opinion on the Legal and Legislative Service. The meeting was attended by a Minister responsible for finance, representatives and representatives from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The amendment of Ambassador William Trophynik of the Zares Group and the proposal for an amendment of the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to Article 3 of the Decree was presented in an additional paper. The amendment was not adopted by the Committee of Ambassador William Trofenik and adopted the amendment to Article 3. On this basis, a complementary proposal has been prepared which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u256	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u257	Once again, today, I hope, for the last time, a nice greeting to all present. The starting points on which the 2008 and 2009 State-owned property sales programme is based are the result of measures for the transparent and gradual withdrawal of the country from the economy and measures for the coordinated privatisation of the largest state-owned companies adopted by the Government in the context of economic and social reforms. In doing so, it is important that the country in companies of strategic importance for the country retain decisive influence after privatisation. For each capital investment, a privatisation programme must be prepared, which must be based on an analysis of the needs of the industry and the needs of the company, with regard to further development and, on the basis of this, an appropriate privatisation method. Capital investment methods and procedures must be collected to allow for the pursuit of several objectives where, in addition to maximising the selling price, it is important to establish a ownership structure that will ensure effective management and development in the long term. Indisputably, as we have heard today, the most important capital investments currently being sold are the shares of the state in the New Credit Bank of Maribor and in Telekom. It is this week that this first part of the privatisation phase of the New Credit Bank Maribor is somehow concluded. The model is different than it was in the past with Nova Ljubljanska Banka, since we did not have the opportunity to participate in the purchase of its shares with the New Ljubljana Bank of Citizens and Citizens. All citizens can participate in the privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor under the same conditions. A measure of fairness is also guaranteed, in maximum form, as can be ensured in relation to the form of privatisation. And what I think is important is a stimulus for all who will own shares for a year, so it would be right to consider this investment as a long-term investment for their children, despite the near possibility of further sales, which will take place by placing shares on the stock market, for their grandchildren, that at least one Slovenian bank will remain in Slovenian ownership. Obviously, however, the ways of privatisation in the past were different, otherwise, at least some member of the Slovenian Democratic Party would be on the list of the 100 richest Slovenians and Slovenes. Clearly, however, the claim that there are no SDS members on this list, some in the opposition and their sympathizers so upset that in the past days they were looking for at least one of the lists that would be at least close to our client. And because they didn't find him, they used a nasty lie and a tycoon, as they called it, from the list of hundreds of Maneger magazines they found just in the government of Yanshe. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! There is no member of the current Slovenian Government on the 100s richest Slovenian and Slovene scale, that is, not Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovic, Minister of Health, who has been told to sit in the 9th place, that is, in the place occupied by Mr Branko Drobnak of Potez. In view of the envisaged ways of selling the country's capital shares and in view of the 2008 and 2009 decree that we have before us, you can be without concern, in particular the respected colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democrats, LDS and Zares, that there is no fear that some of your family or your sympathizers could join our party's members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, of course, supports the decree on the sale programme for 2008 and 2009, as it allows for transparent, efficient sale of the country's capital shares, which is primarily in the interest of our citizens and citizens. And let me appeal again from this city to all those who have decided to purchase shares of the New Credit Bank Maribor today until 4 p.m. Do not sell them unless absolutely necessary! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u259	Honourable President, Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The regulation on the sales programme of state-owned assets for 2008 and 2009 is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. In the New Slovenia Group we insist on responsible and transparent sales of state property. This should be achieved through a broader consensus in the National Assembly and positive support for the professional public. We believe that the proposal for a resolution is prepared so that our Group of Members can support it in accordance with those requirements. As early as July 2006, the government adopted a programme to withdraw the country from the economy. The proposal was prepared by the expert group and the division of investments into three groups ensures that the best goals for the country are achieved. The proposal for a decree on the sale of State property follows this programme and brings to the National Assembly a set of investments that are suitable for sale. This would be realised in the light of the favourable situation on the market. Although the basic budgetary objective of sales is to achieve as much revenue as possible, when selling certain capital investments, this objective must be subordinated to broader macroeconomic aspects in order to ensure a more competitive and efficient economic system. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a decree because we want to provide companies with an opportunity for effective governance, competitiveness and successful development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u261	Your Honors are here! The document before us is a direct disaster for our country, the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to show us on 17 pages more than 20 companies that it will sell, including water economies, banks, good companies, without a single explanation why. In the entire text before us, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have once mentioned a strategy or a reason why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides to do so. Since I have only five minutes of time, I will only touch those who I think are the worst. Below the order number we find New Credit Bank Maribor. Both speakers spoke before me about transparency and fair privatisation. Please! According to the response of people regarding 24% of the share as directed to natural persons, it is every person who will receive 250 euros worth of securities. And let someone say it's fair! Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not calculate the absorption power. Why she did not calculate it - on purpose she did not calculate it, so that at the next 24% would be able to exercise the right through a privatisation commission working under a system of discretion. Does anyone between us know what the elements of discretion are? Nobody! The price range is, of course, such that the privatisation commission stops at EUR 25, it will not go to 26, it will not go to 27. Why is that? Since institutional investors have already been selected, and for some time now. Anyone who goes a little deeper into the above-mentioned issue will see that despite the Government of the Republic of Slovenia talking about transparency, much bigger pigs are going on with the New Bank of Credit Maribor than they were in connection with the New Bank of Ljubljana. At least that's where the citizens knew, no, we don't go there. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will achieve complete dispersion with a guaranteed share of the individual investor and thus absolute dependence on the market. This means that three of the eight institutional investors, for whom I reiterate that they are already known, although the deadline has not yet begun, will reach out in the second phase. And the second phase, gentlemen, is confirmed today by this act. Do you think the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will join the National Assembly with the system of the second phase privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor? No, because she didn't join the National Assembly at the first stage. But anyway, I tried to convince you more than 10 times in the National Assembly to talk about the banking institution, and the speaker told me to keep it in Slovenian ownership. Are you really so naive to say this or do you really know so little? The answer, why, will not be found in connection with the water economy. The answer why we will not find neither in the field of oil, nor in the field of Pek, nor in the field of especially interesting, the energy of the Termoelectrica project, heating Ljubljana, then we have a very interesting water economy Mura, the Drava water economy. And there's something else listed in these water farms. Then we'll step away from the responsibility, yeah, we didn't know. In connection with the events with Elektro Primorsko, their purchases, HELV - hydroelectric power plants at Vrbas, HETR - hydroelectric power plant in Trebišnica and with the announced price stimulation, gentlemen and ladies, speculators on the securities market, that is, only intermediaries, will earn so much with your help and solely on speculation. But let's leave these things to themselves. Do you know what's even more interesting about the document itself? RTS CM. The RTS CM, despite the fact that the call for tender around RTS CM began to take place in 2005 onwards, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the decision of the Government, still claims to include RTS CM in the framework of this programme. What if the contract isn't written? Yes, who is Minister Bajuk or the preparers of the above - mentioned material mocking? In the case of the New Bank of Credit Maribor they make fun of citizens and citizens. We have seen in the prospectus the extent to which the share of securities that will be held at high demand is guaranteed. The prospectus did not show what would happen to the next 24%, i.e. institutional investors [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Today, by confirming this, you will also accept the second phase of privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. [[...]] This document will not be supported in the National Party. But I sincerely hope that you Members will change your mind and you will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-11-27-SDZ4-Izredna-30.ana.u262	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a decree, the assembly will take a decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
