ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Josip Bajc, Roberto Battelli, Aleš Gulič from 16.00 to 19:00 and mag. Franc Žnidaršič and Samo Bevk from 11.00 to 3 p.m. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE PUBLIC AGENCY FOR THE BOOK OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, IN THE framework of a regular procedure The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister Simonita, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! The proposed Law on the Public Book Agency realizes the long-standing wish of Slovenian literary authors, publishers and others working in the field of the book. The decision has matured for a long time, and the bill before you is by no means merely the result of a political decision on the establishment of a Public Book Agency, with which the state is significantly distanced from the formulation of cultural and scientific policy in the field of the book and from the decision on the financing of programmes and projects in this area. The decision to establish a Public Book Agency and to transfer a large part of the responsibility for the state and development of the area from the State or Government to the professional public is based on two realistic conditions: firstly, on the development of forms of State support to the book concerning support for all parts of the book chain that are consistent with the public interest in culture; and secondly, on the budgetary resources allocated to this area, which have in particular increased and enabled the implementation of all planned support measures since 2004. The main reasons why the Public Book Agency will be established are: firstly, the integration of the book support instruments carried out separately by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Public Research Agency, into a single organisational form; secondly, the implementation of national presentations of Slovenian beauty and scientific publishing abroad; thirdly, the integration with comparable international organisations, with a view to providing new sources of funding; fourthly, the possibility of obtaining non-budgetary funding in the field of the book; fifthly, the implementation of promotional actions carried out at national level, aimed at promoting authors and raising awareness of the importance of the book and reading. There was a broad public debate on the draft law, which was discussed at the National Council for Culture, which supported the draft. The bill was also supported by a competent committee in the National Assembly. In particular, it should be pointed out that there is a major consensus on the key elements of the law, on the definition of the scope of the law, on the definition of the principles of the law and on the essential part of the law, on the tasks of the Public Agency as defined in Article 4, which can be defined exclusively by law. With regard to these basic provisions, we have received virtually no comments from the professional public, with the exception of the Association of Slovenian Writers, which considered that the Agency should also cover the area of procurement of material in general libraries, but the Ministry of Culture had argued that it was a matter of publishing and librarianism for two systems operating in a completely different way and that such a non-systemic solution would not be consistent if only one part of the implementation of the library public service had passed to the Agency. The most attention was given to the composition of the Council of the Agency. The bill follows a systemic normative framework, the basis of which is the public agency, which we have found to enable the performance of all those tasks provided for by the law. At the Ministry, we believe that the proposal for a law is realistic and is based on compliance with systemic laws, public agencies law, public financial laws and laws on the realization of public interest in culture, as it only allows for its full implementation in practice. With regard to the question of the composition of the Council of Agencies, representatives of the profession in the world will have a majority. The issue of funding for the Agency, where the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science will bear its share of responsibility, is systematically consistent and fully enforceable. Your Honor! I am convinced that the bill is consistent and quality and a good basis for providing Slovenian books, literary writers and scientific writers with more permanent conditions for their development, and for Slovenian readers with a more accessible book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. May I have the president of mags, please? Grims' marriage to present the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 27th meeting, on 11 October 2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Culture, Education and Sport addressed the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the drafter of the law, the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Council of State, a representative of the Association of Slovenian Writers also participated actively in the debate. The debate was quite extensive and touched on both the tasks to be derived from the provisions of the law and will now be carried out by the Public Book Agency and the compositions of its working bodies. Above all, it touched on a key purpose, namely to support the Slovenian book, to develop it and to achieve a high degree of consensus in this work. However, the biggest debate was on Articles 6 and 11, which are likely to be the subject of debate today, as amendments to both articles are tabled. We also accepted a number of amendments, so amendments were adopted to 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Articles 11 and 13 which are also open to possible amendments at the sitting itself. However, amendments to Articles 7a and b and 8 and one of the amendments to Article 11 have not been adopted. In its second reading at its meeting, the Committee also adopted the text of the law and proposed to the National Assembly that the text be considered and adopted after its consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Grims, I would like to invite you again to present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you. First of all, I regret that there are so few of us in the Chamber right now, because the Slovenian book certainly deserves a lot of attention in the world where we are in the processes of globalisation, when we become Slovenian and Slovenian culture in the broadest sense of the word of value, which they need to pay particular attention to. In fact, it would be absurd for Slovenians as a nation to spend as many centuries as we have without our country, to be able to establish our country, to realize the Millennium Dreams, and then there would be problems in maintaining our consciousness, our cultural heritage, our language, and what today is the reading of Slovenian books. The law before us is, according to the SDS Group's assessment, a very positive solution, which we have been working towards for many years. I would like to remind you that since the resolutions on culture were adopted, as well as in other cases, we have tabled several amendments, including amendments that have specifically stressed the importance of maintaining and strengthening the Slovenian book, but were consistently rejected by the then coalition when we were even in the opposition. Thus, this coalition, this government, has succeeded in submitting for the first time a legal act, a law that places things in the right place, allowing them to seek additional funding for the development of the Slovenian book, which in particular emphasises the importance of further development and establishes a legal framework to strengthen the role of the Slovenian book. This is for the reasons that I have stated, due to the changed social conditions, due to the changed conditions in the world, of exceptional importance. This is not just about a book in the narrow sense of the word, but we can say that it is about preserving an important part of Slovenian culture and also about strengthening it. The solutions that are in law are very good, according to our assessment, it is a balanced composition of organs. With the amendment tabled today by the Coalition Group of Members, it is our view that we follow very well the commitment we made at the Committee's meeting, when we also assured the representatives of the Writers' Society and other participants that we would take the step they wanted. And as an interesting thing to say, last Friday, I also had the opportunity to meet with the leadership of the Slovenian Writers' Association, and there this amendment was assessed even better than those who prepared it themselves, for several reasons, because it is seven people, because it is easier then to reach the majority, but also because of the composition, which is very important to them - if you have a direct proposal from several groups and these groups together elect one, then it is always in favour of the largest group. Such a solution, as it is now, we all agreed on it then, including the Association of Slovenian Writers, allows us to choose always a balanced composition, so that it does not come to the end that those who are direct, if I say so, the creators of the Slovenian book can be pushed to the brink or even neglected in the composition of these bodies. Of course, this method of composition gives greater responsibility to those who can also influence this composition by their conduct, which in the present case means the responsible minister in the part where he has that responsibility. Some, as you know, also have the opportunity to run directly after this proposal. Nevertheless, a number of concerns were expressed. I personally think they're unfounded. This is also the assessment of the SDS Group. As for the strengthening of funding, as far as the search for additional resources is concerned, it is a simple fact that the entire mandate of this Government has increased funds for the Slovenian book, in real terms and in figures, and it is quite clear that this is a policy that we intend to continue. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A logical continuation is also a proposed law. [[...]] For this reason, as it is said, the SDS Group welcomes this law and will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u7	Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Dear Members and Members! In principle, the Group of Social Democrats welcomes the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia and joins those who find that the proposal for a law has been in existence for a long time, and, finally, one of the versions of the care for the book is represented or expressed also in the national programme for culture, which is, indeed, still in the form of a public fund. And the fabricator also weighed this possibility between the public fund and between the public agency and because of everything that is being prepared as a change in the public funds, he decided on a regulatory framework and we have a law on public agencies before us. We join the opinion of the Council of State, which stated in its opinion that in principle the Law on the Public Book Agency should be supported. However, if we are following closely the objectives and objectives of the drafter of this law, it would point out that if the basic task of the Public Agency is to increase the influence of the professional public in deciding what the book policy should be, then it is certainly important to draw attention to a number of comments on the composition of the Council. For the applicant himself wrote in the introduction to the law [[I now read the chapter "Reasons for the adoption of the new law, greater participation of the professional public"]] : "The Book Agency shall be established with a view to ensuring, depending on the type and nature of its tasks, greater participation of the professional public working in the field of the book, thereby achieving greater expertise in the financing of programmes and projects..." - this means that the performance of the Agency’s tasks does not require continuous and direct political control, which is one of the conditions for the establishment of a public agency referred to in Article 4 of the Law on Public Agencies. In particular, I would like to point out that the following is an indication of how the professional public will directly influence the Agency's work programme with its representation in the public agency's world. And that's where the trouble begins. It is true that the professional decisions also include four expert committees for book and magazine production, for beauty, for such production also in the field of science, for literary events and for the development of reading culture and for the international promotion of Slovenian beauty and scientific publishing, but these expert committees will not be directly represented in the world, but the 7-member Council of the Agency consists of 3 members directly appointed by the founder, now after the new amendment proposal also a member or representative of a representative association of writers, and 3 members who are also elected to the call are appointed by the founder. It seems that in the law or in the introductory part, intertwining between the state and the public is possible. We believe that social democrats should come into the functioning of the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia in particular. And if so, then representation in the Council of the Agency should be different and, in particular, the appointment of members should be different. This is currently left to the creation act and cannot be established or claimed to take into account in this act all the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 6 of the proposal. Experience has shown that the difference between forecasts and implementation in this mandate is considerable. The second thing to be mentioned on behalf of the parliamentary group is that the Public Book Agency will have an eight-member team, but not significantly increased resources, and everything will move within the envisaged framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much. So, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! First of all, I would say that it is only necessary to commend those who have come to this debate in the first place. As far as the LDS Club is concerned, we have taken a tactic this time and consciously decided that, regardless of the fact that we have people in our club who know so much about this, we will primarily defend what can be recognized as a public interest and, from this point of view, we have not tabled the amendments ourselves, but we have gone and supported those proposals that we have received from the interested public and, above all, from the Association of Slovenian Writers. We have done this together with other fellow Members who share our concerns for this area. As far as the debate ahead of us today is concerned, it must be said that this agency law is a safe step from what the resolution has foreseen; the step is unfortunately too late, if not too late. Perhaps the Ministry has decided for this agency so late because it has not always wanted to organise the fund to which it was bound by the resolution on the operation in the field of culture. The fund in this resolution was also - and here is a reference to the debate in the previous Parliament - established on the initiative of the Association of Slovenian Writers and supported by all Members and Members of the previous reference. I can talk about this in a good way, because I also organised these signatures at the time, so that all the Members of all the parties were able to vote against Mrs Richter's ideas in favour of the Slovenian book. Today, unfortunately, the situation is different. When we talk about a thousand-year-old dream, it always worries me, because when someone talks about it, I always know that this is an opportunity for these dreams, which are dreamed of by a very specific political option. And this law in these solutions actually means the realization of SDS dreams and the realization of the dreams of Minister Simoniti and his followers. Certainly it is not true that these amendments tabled by the coalition are to a greater extent satisfying the needs and interests of the Slovenian Writers' Associations. If this discussion by the chairman of the Committee on Culture was conducted on Thursday and Friday, I will not talk about how many discussions, given the correspondence that all of you could have followed in electronic mail, it is necessary to say that on Monday, it was said that a few days later the protest assembly of the Association of Slovenian Writers and that at this protest assembly this same president and all present were said to have been more than 50 that they unanimously rejected the proposal of the coalition as inappropriate, as inappropriate and as such, which in fact means either to the minister and his followers. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Not as something that benefits the public agency for the book. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Nicely greeted. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the Slovenian word is in Slovenian and even more important in European space and the Slovenian book is a vehicle for the development of Slovenian language. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the Slovenian book needs to be given more attention, not only in words, but also in actions. We can say that since its independence, the need for a more comprehensive approach in the field of the book has continued to emerge. We must be aware that we are a small nation, that our publishing activity is counted in a few hundred copies, not thousands, as is the custom in a number of nations. That is why it is all the more important for the Slovenian state to take care of the Slovenian book. The need for a more active policy to promote the development of the book and make it more accessible has continued to emerge from its independence. We are pleased that the budget for the book is increasing. The creation of a book agency is also an important systemic step in the direction that lays more solid foundations for the future development of the Slovenian book. In Novi Slovenija we believe that the Public Book Agency will bring new added value to the development of the Slovenian book, as it will also have a coordinating and implementing task in addition to the supporting one. The Agency's world will be represented by representatives of the professional circles, as well as by expert committees within the Agency, which means that the expertise of the Agency's work will be ensured. In addition, the Agency's task will be to provide other non-budgetary resources aimed at promoting authors, books and readings. Since Slovenia became part of a large united Europe, it is important to preserve Slovenian language and Slovenian culture and in New Slovenia we support all the country's efforts in this direction. We are of the opinion that the Public Book Agency will provide a more permanent condition for the scope of the book in order to enable the systematic and long-term implementation of support tasks that will make the book more accessible to all citizens, and that is why we will support the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for a Book. We will also support the amendment of the coalition to Article 6, which speaks of the composition of the book agency, which takes into account the essential proposal of the Association of Slovenian Writers that one of them is also delegated to the Council of the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u14	Dear President, Mr. Secretary with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we always stress the importance of Slovenian culture and Slovenian language, whose development and existence are most assuredly provided by Slovenian book. We therefore understand that the Public Book Agency is being set up precisely to ensure the existence and development of the Slovenian book and thus the Slovenian language. The Agency will carry out individual tasks which, depending on their nature and nature, cannot be carried out within the Ministry of Culture or also for higher education, science and technology. This will, in our view, also bring about the wish of literary creators and publishers. It will be easier and more organised to carry out national presentations of Slovenian beauty and scientific publishing abroad and to connect with comparable international organisations with a view to providing new sources of funding, the possibility of obtaining non-budgetary funding for the field of the book and other necessary tasks. A consensus on the law was reached in a public debate in which, following the Minister's confirmation, the National Council for Culture was also involved. These discussions focused on the composition of the Council and on the financing of the Public Book Agency. In recent times, however, there have been some objections and doubts about the good purpose of the law in public, since the bill does not specify either the number or composition of the members of the Council, and therefore the applicant will have to clearly determine their representation in view of the diversity of the proposed representatives and thus ensure that not only certain interests are represented in the world of the Agency. This was also done. In the debate in which the president of the Association of Slovenian Writers also took part, the main speeches were on the amendments submitted to Article 6, which define the composition of the Council of the Public Agency, and on the proposal to also specify in Article 11 that the estimated tax on the book should be gradually accounted for in full by the Agency's revenue from the State budget. It may be necessary to take a real approach to this in the future, but at this point we are pleased that the first step has been taken. We will support the proposed amendment to Article 6 proposed by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and fully support the law. As we believe in the SLS Group that the adoption of the Law establishing the Public Book Agency in Slovenia is important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u16	Nice hello to you all! When the national programme for culture, which requires us to do in one way or another what we are doing today and in the coming days, I can say that it is worth welcoming this decision to finally get a book agency instead of a planned fund, but it is a related organisation. Let me also say that before the day of the reformation it is nice to consider an important solution; an important solution for both the book and the country which rules the book in some way at least by means of its regulation and the assessment of its resources. In short, this law brings the book back to the book. And that, as it is said, before the day of the reformation, we should not survive with redskins, listening to the argument that will be given for the last time at this hearing. At first glance, the public agency is fine. Decisions in the field of book activity move to an autonomous institution that is supposed to move away from politics or the Ministry, from the government, which is good for both the Ministry and the book itself. At the same time, it is necessary to know that the Agency will be the contractor or coordinator of political decisions, that is to say, depending on the amount of funds and other guidelines and targets to be set by the Government, both in the long term and in the longer term. So the agency will in some way be a dependent-autonomic service, in fact it can't be otherwise. But in order for this autonomy that we're talking about to be true, let's see how real this is. Some doubt that the law is too loose and that this autonomy is limited. I doubt you, too. In fact, it leaves an open field to be filled with only submarital acts. About how the agency will function, what competences the professional commissions will have, how wide they will go, what competences the world itself will have in detail or in subsequent decisions, not just those that are loosely written into law. In short, I also think that the success of the Agency will depend largely on these acts, which we do not know how and what they will be, because they are under-laws and do not have enough meat and bones to offer them this law. The two are also involved in covering all book activities, both literary ones, i.e. those carried over from the Ministry of Culture, as well as those carried over from the Public Research Agency. And this is not only an activity related to librarianism, which is very much related to the book itself, but also to that which goes into partial other interests. We know that a number of ministries are financing, in their own or different taste, today, but certainly not as systematic as the Ministry of Culture, Book Activity and this field will now remain open. As well as very specific catalogue and other, in particular, magazines accompanying certain areas. Of course, the question of pooling criteria, those now in force at the Ministry of Culture and those at the Public Agency, for scientific monographs, for professional literature, remained open, but this means that there will be a great deal of work when the agency itself is set up. The key body, of course, is a world which is still at issue in the proposed form, strongly disputed. Today we hear that some arrangements have been made, and at the same time we hear that they have not happened. We are certainly faced with three solutions, those which have been advocated since the very beginning by users' representatives, the most powerful, it is said, by the society of writers, and we have gathered them by some Members, there are adjustments to those that the Government is correcting and designing so that this agency will work according to its taste, and so on - we will of course be further on about this. Of course, the key question of Article 11 is that of the one who talks about how funds will be provided for the book in general. Finally, let me say that the key issue facing Slovenia today is the question which opens up Europe and opens up a new way of taxing also artistic activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! The fact is that only the name of the bill before us today should at some declaration level ensure a better future and better days for the Slovenian book, the Slovenian word and everything related to such an activity. Of course, from this title are a bill, but only from the title, it is to be supported and is to be encouraged. The fact is that from the date of entry into the framework of Euro-Atlantic connections, the fact is that in the age of new ways of communication the Slovenian book loses unfortunately in importance. On the other hand, we must stress that it is still, I believe that, to the pride of all of us, our tradition of written words, our history of written words. And if we look at the above-mentioned law and review of the amendments, then I must at least inform the Minister and the other Members who have the right to vote, the two serious anomalies that we are trying to correct as co-proposals of the amendment to Article 6 of this Act. For the first time, of course, it is a matter of funding, financing of the Agency. According to our assessment, a book and everything related to the contents of the book in the widest circle or in terms of the word is needed as they say in society "as a stable source" which will, of course, allow for the absence of a daily political impact on the written word and, of course, the incomprehensibility of perceiving the content of the individual work. On the other hand, I must point out that the law itself seems to us to be a law without the possibility of adopting an amendment to Article 6, which is that article, which you spoke of almost all speakers before me, would be quite empty; of course, it would regulate things surfacely or better, in a half way, that is half. Therefore, according to our assessment, the agency and, of course, the world, which should be one of those authorities that have an executive branch of power, should not be influenced by, directly or indirectly, by the Ministry, but only by the profession and those who create the written word. Therefore, with this title, of course, I predict support for the amendments to this law and in the case of the adoption of these amendments, which, in our opinion, are really trying to create a distance between the impact of the current policy on the Minister and the Minister's influence on the book. And it is necessary to distance ministers from the influence or influence of politics on the book. The book must be independent, the book must be one that reflects its content and not the content of the current government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u20	Mr President, honourable Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we will be pleased to support the proposal for a law because we welcome this proposal for a law. It is also because the text of the proposal is in principle coordinated and supported by both the coalition and the opposition, and especially by the professional public, who have been working for the drafting of such a proposal and, as a result, has been working for a number of years to adopt it. The proposal certainly, at the principle level, constitutes an encouraging expression of the level of cultural policy achieved in the field of the book as a value in the public interest. By accepting this, the book and the value in the public interest will also be recognised by the State. The fact is that cultural policy in the field of the book has been very fragmented, so the Members of our Group agree with the proposed solution, which provides comprehensive support to the entire book chain. The proposal foresees the establishment of a Public Book Agency and we support such an intention in our parliamentary group. In particular, the Agency's core purpose is to address the area in an integrated manner and to protect it in a more sustainable manner, while at the same time carrying out some of the new tasks that the Agency can perform due to its legal status. Special attention was also paid to the Committee's meeting in the form of the proposed Book Agency itself. We have also focused in our parliamentary group on the issue of the emancipation of the Agency's leadership and decisions. The Agency is to be chaired by a board composed of representatives of the founder and representatives of the professional public, elected by the founder by a public call. In view of the basic considerations of the bill's proposal that this new form should contribute to the greater impact of the profession and thus to the greater quality of the decisions taken, we have assessed in our parliamentary group that the original text was too loose. In this regard, our parliamentary group is involved in the signing of the coalition amendment, but we will support the amendment tabled through the parties of the Group of Members, which summarises the more professional solutions proposed by the Association of Slovenian Writers. This provides that the Council shall have a certain number of members, six of which shall be appointed by the founder on a proposal from the users and shall appoint the other half by choice. We estimate that such a composition of the world will allow for professional independence of decision-making. We believe that the Agency's funding is also managed in a satisfactory manner, as the financial resources are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which means fairly stable and predictable funding for the book and the state budget represents the main source of funding. Given that Slovenia has one of the largest book taxes in the European Union, we believe that part of this collected tax should also be returned to the field of the book, so we agree with the solution that this allows, namely that the State budget funds increase by 20% of the tax collected per book in the previous year, so that this tax is fully charged to the Agency's revenue for a practical fifth year. The proposal also makes it possible to obtain non-budgetary resources for the book, and the amount will depend on the Agency's ability. Our Group of Members will, as has already been said, support this proposal, as we consider it to be quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the views of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The law provides for the establishment of an organisation, financing and supervision of the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia and defines its tasks. The aim of the book agency is to carry out professional, development and enforcement tasks in relation to the implementation of strategic documents and guidelines in the field of the book. The Agency shall also carry out other tasks relating to the promotion of development in the field of the book, in accordance with the purpose set out in the creation act. The Book Agency will provide for more permanent conditions for the development of the book area in a way that, in line with the public interest linked to the book as such, enables the systematic and long-term implementation of various support tasks relating to the improvement of the position of creators, publishers, bookstores and which will enable the book to be made more accessible to all citizens. To this end, the Book Agency will carry out supporting tasks consistent with the public interest in the book, which will take into account the complexity and internal connection of all articles of the book chain from authors, publishers, libraries, bookstores to readers. The important principle also applies to the promotion of better visibility of Slovenian authors and thus of Slovenian culture and Slovenian country in the world. Well, good luck with the Slovenian book.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 October 2007. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jožef Školč, the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS and the amendment of the Zares Group of Members. I'm opening an application for discussion. Anyone who wishes to discuss Article 6 and the amendments to this Article should apply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Two amendments have been tabled to Article 6 as you have already pointed out. One was proposed by a group of Members with first-signed colleague Josef Školč, and this amendment was signed by the Association of Slovenian Writers. If I recall the debate on the parental committee, some progress has been made, as also the amendment of the coalition members, which has also been tabled in this article, has gone in the direction of including the membership of the representative Association of Slovenian Writers in the world of the public agency. Of course, the government still retains a great deal of authority with this amendment. In fact, the world is a very important body and I think that if it is the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia, it must be as autonomous and independent and professional as possible in its decisions. We wrote in the National Programme for Culture that the accessibility of the book in the Slovenian language should be promoted by promoting original creativity, such as translation literature, with a particular aim of expanding and deepening the reading culture. There are also some objectives to increase the number of books sold, so that accessibility to the book needs to be increased. After increasing the load of books and regions in order to promote the development of the bookmaking network, it is necessary to raise the level of reading culture. By the way, I should say that there has been a national programme for reading culture in one of the ministerial boxes for some time now, and it would be good to have it on the table as soon as possible. In addition, the world will have very large powers and will have relatively large resources. Even today at government level - although this data is for 2005 - we spend 2 billion 157 million tolars for the book [[Then we had tolars, so the data is in tolars.]] . Well, the agency will now pool that part of the book funds within the Ministry of Culture, that was a billion 883 million tolars, and the funds that were at the Public Research Agency of 332 million tolars. So, together with budget resources alone, the world will rule with a billion 715 million tolars - I apologize for not turning it into a euro. In addition, it will also acquire other financial resources for its activities, so that it is appropriate to listen to the amendment proposed by the Members to this Article 6. I think it is good that the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia is set up, and I will support it, but it is not good that the Government is trying too much to control all subsystems in society, as well as a book through the Public Book Agency. Notwithstanding the fact that comments on certain solutions in this law have been made, I think that this is a step forward, but we may be able to correct or improve some of the things in this law in the coming term if the coalition does not accept these two amendments that we have proposed at the initiative of the Slovenian Writers' Association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We are with the article and the additions that will actually decide whether this law deserves a name to set up a public agency or whether it will actually be a paralegal book agency. If we want this to be called the Public Book Agency, it is certainly necessary to ensure what the Minister said in his introduction: a greater distance - not only of the Ministry, but also of policy in deciding on problems and projects related to the book. Of course, power is always hidden in those details that set up decision-making mechanisms on these issues. And such a key decision-making mechanism is certainly the Agency's council. Throughout this debate, we have been following a considerable development of the Ministry's position. Various variants were offered by the Ministry to the public in order to convince it to transfer part of this or all decision-making to a professional team. Of course, all these mechanisms represented by the Ministry have always left skepticism or thoughts, whether they really mean it or not. My opinion is, of course, he doesn't mean it. Because on the other hand, she had the opportunity to support such a council of agencies, which would be autonomous even after setting. Thus, the autonomy in this part to determine the entities that themselves propose representatives to the Council of the Agency without creating a sieve of coalitions, without the creation of a sieve of a minister or a government. The Minister strongly opposes this, and this is what is discussed in this article. That is why we had one solution on the committee, although the coalition then adopted another, which turned out very quickly to be inappropriate. Of course, she offered this last one that we have today, where she says that six of these representatives will choose from the professional public for an invitation and the seventh one will only be able to appoint a society of writers. What I'm going to say is, what I'm going to say is, the Writers' Association is that three are appointed by themselves and three are appointed by the Minister on call. It is said, of these three, that there will be no misunderstandings, one from the SAZU, one from the university proposal and the third from the DSP. The difference is obvious because we have three autonomous and three elected ministers in one case, in the other case we have six of them by choice of minister and one autonomous. What do you think of this autonomous society of writers? Here it was said that if this is, I'll say, a step forward and they'll be granted a role. How do they understand this role? So that I don't interpret this, I'm just going to read it from a letter that I'm sure you've got yourself, and you probably didn't want to read it. I quote "for the proposal of a representative company of writers, there is indeed a place in this amendment in the world of the agency, but all the other members of the Council are still appointed by the founder: three directly and three following a public call from an untransparent selection of proposals from universities, SAZU, societies and people. This, of course, still allows the policy to draw up the administrative body of the Agency in its entirety and will, while in this case the independent proposal of a representative writer society could serve this policy only as an alibi." It is also said that these people do not accept the proposal you are proposing here as being well-intentioned. And they are right, because the experience of the worlds, which in the field where Minister Simonita is responsible, is such that wherever politics can appoint people into the worlds, the public status continues to decline significantly and there are still major problems. Remember the Public Institute of RTV, which certainly no longer deserves to be called a public institution, but it is a government service of the coalition, or perhaps not even a coalition - one of the parties. And remember all those procedures, interfering with the Film Fund, where confusion is such that no one really knows how to figure it out anymore. And the minister here is also trying to provide by law an instrument with which he could legally cross a paraphrasing [[it is also possible to read about this in this same letter from Mr Frogot]] ensure the legal distribution of funds to their friends. And against it, of course, it protestes, normally, even the opposition and people who can read laws and those who can also understand the manoeuvres that the coalition is also implementing in the legislative sense. Therefore, if I go back, it will be possible to really talk about the public agency when these decisions on funds and policies are really going to put the Ministry's fingers away. This moment doesn't love you. And regardless of the technical appearance of the entire mechanism, in fact, Minister Simoniti evaluates it in one move. And that move is the composition of the world. It is also clear that he is embarrassed to some extent, because we are dealing with a third or fourth combination, how this world would do and satisfy some interests, but in all combinations, Minister Simonita in the background provides the majority to decide on these matters. And this is definitely a step away from what the NPK requires and what the interested public expects.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I will continue where, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I have concluded, and I will explain that the amendment of the Group of Members signed by our Group, Sam Bevk, means that the Group of Social Democrats supports the amendment. Where are the reasons for supporting the amendment, although two others are offered in the review? First of all, I will go from what was stated in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments in particular on this dictatorship "and other book development agents". As it is written, it is not pure enough and can be challenged by the difference between individual and institutional representations in the world. Of course, there is a very different definition of the harmonisation of the law that has been achieved. Some other talks were then mentioned, but like all other Members and Members, I also received a letter from the Association of Slovenian Writers, which explains how this was all well-coordinated, but puts into a little awkward position how they understand consistency. The letter from the Association of Slovenian Writers clearly states that they do not support such a proposal of Article 6 as is now enshrined in the law or as offered by the coalition amendment. I will not reopen the question of the number of judges in the world because we have already said a word about this to ourselves on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and because the proposed amendment solves potentially the same number by giving the representative of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art a decisive role. It is also justified in the proposal of the Writers' Association, why the representative of the SAZU and not the President, although I felt that I could also speak to the President. This solution is, of course, better in this case if we are to consistently withdraw policy from decision-making in the world of the Book Agency. I understand that the coalition felt that it would be able to obtain the Association of Slovenian Writers with the exclusive role that it has assigned to this representative in the world, but I think that the proposed solution in the amendment is significantly better because it allows the will of the one who, after this law, will be able to have full control of the world and thus the work of the agency to be fully expressed. Not to overlook what the State Council has written down, which in its opinion also recommended that the Slovenian model of the book agency be more consistent with the model of solutions found in countries with national incentives for a book organised by non-state or parallel independent institutions. The State Council even specifically named the Finnish model. I would like to stress another aspect of how important it is that we take care of the book in a country that has a limited book market. It is also possible to find a measure in the national language policy programme or an incentive to accelerate investment in the book. But just as it is now stated in the proposal for a law that resources from the Agency for Research and Development are being transferred in an unaltered form from that Agency to the Book Agency, it does not appear that this concern would be reinforced in particular because it will only be transferred from the Agency for Research and Development. This is the part that takes care of scientific periodicity and the issue of scientific monographs. However, it is also important to take care of the translation from foreign languages into Slovenian or the publication of texts of Slovenian authors written for the foreign language area and now the translation is also needed in Slovenian. So these warrants that the Book Agency is waiting for, I think, are a lot. However, it does not appear from this proposal that something essential in financial incentives would change. And that is what remains an open question, with the agreement or support of principle, and especially the fate of the amendment to 6th and not later on to 11th. And it will be up to these two amendments to decide how I vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u30	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We could exclaim "gaudeamus igitur", so we are glad that this bill saw light in the National Assembly just before the State holiday, 31st of this month. It must be said that the book played an important role in the statehood of the Republic of Slovenia. Remember Primož Trubar, and it is right that now that we are submerged in the European Union's global pool, we will also pay attention to this part of the impact on national identity through this bill. I agree with my colleague Majda Potrato that the law is conceived as such, whether then this money that goes through this agency will really be used carefully, whether it will be used more, it is said, whether it will provide more resources, will thus improve the position of the book on the market, whether this money will, as before, become a prey to, say, some party lobbying or market lobbying in the Republic of Slovenia, who will try through mechanisms, as this world, which we are now discussing, be able to exercise some of its market or local interests, so it is still important and necessary to see that this world, for the first time, is autonomous, is said to be independent of all these things that I have discussed, and also that this world will be professional. It seems to me that the amendments that have been tabled are mostly professional, so I wouldn't talk about it that much. But the bigger thing is the autonomy of this world. I think that, in mathematics, we call this a positive first amendment, tabled by a group of Members, with colleague Joseph Školč, is less positive than or even negative is the amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups. This can be clearly understood from these two amendments and their contents. The first amendment, if we read it precisely, explains who should be in this world and also why such a selection of members of this world is established in the amendment, and also this amendment is very good, as far as autonomy is concerned, also establishes certain criteria that would somehow eliminate the political or market treatment of this segment by the world. It says, "without directly loved officials or officials elected or appointed by the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the representative body of the local community. [[...]] The members of the Council do not represent the world of those who have been proposed and appointed, but are committed to the purpose for which the Agency is established and to the tasks assigned to it by law." This part of the text in the amendment provides us with a part of autonomy and, on the other hand, gives the minister an attribute to the one proposed by these societies which may be proposed in order to reject such a proposal if the proposed candidate fails to meet these criteria. But if we look at the second amendment of the parliamentary groups, it says, "... based on," and so on, "Slovenian Academy of Science and Art and Society, operating in the field of the book..." What are those societies, the interest associations of individuals working in the field of the book, is a very broad concept and is not defined. Is this, for example, the Mountain Association of Slovenia, a company that issues guides through Slovenian mountains and could even list them? It's the first thing that's not defined like that. And the other, among the distinguished authors, who are the good authors. That's the question again. Who's calling it? The reputation of authors is very questionable, scientists are less questionable, and book developmentists. Who, though, is the book’s promoter of development? This requirement is also such that it can be understood in one way or another. We may have an extension or we may have a restriction on that concept. And he also says, "it takes account of the representation of authors, publishers, libraries and other developmentists in the field of the book." [[...]] Three to the inside, and here's a cumulative list of who's supposed to be and supposed to be different. Even this matter, if we look from a pragmatic point of view, does not correspond to the fact that the world could really be composed so that no one who proposed candidates for this world would have the sense that it would be played. I also think that in the case of an undecided vote, the vote of the member proposed by the SAZU is questionable in the first amendment of the first-signed colleague, Mr Školč. My colleague Majda Pót was also somewhat emboldened by this sentence. I think it would be better if that decision, if there were a half-and-a-half, would not have been made. Why all decisions must be made. And this is where the tick begins to develop, so I think whatever one of these amendments is going to be adopted has every good and every bad quality. There is a lot of good amendments to the Group of Members, which I will also decide on in terms of the voting. I think that, in view of whatever will be adopted, even in the third reading, the possibility will, in the light of the foregoing, be decided by the amendment. There is certainly something, however, that respectable colleagues and colleagues, if none of these amendments are adopted, there is also no way that, personally, such a law or a proposal for a law on the Public Book Agency would support it, because it seems to me that it is in this segment, when it comes to a world that is essentially a parliament of this agency, which sets up a strategy and policy, and also brings the final decisions of this agency, that is very important. And now that we are in a market economy, we should not be preying on this or that partisan interest. I can tell you that Slovenians are also famous for some of the drinking answers. I'm sure one of them is from the book - my colleague Purity is already laughing at me. You know when she asks, "You don't care about the book," she says, "I don't care about the book," or "I don't care about the book." Even in this dilemma, we have been somewhat provocative in our space with answers to certain questions blue or imaginary. And for that, it seems to me that it is wise to be able to make so much sense that at least one amendment to this chapter is accepted. However, I think that if we look at the practice that is in the National Assembly and look at how the National Assembly, as a legislator, works with these individual segments that are supposed to determine or propose candidates for a new world, then we have the University, the Society of Slovenian Writers. However, I do not wish to be a critic of this public place now, but I must say for these two institutions that they are very good and active in the legislative process. However, I must say that I am extremely sad that the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, which should be our lighthouse in the field of science and art, has not been actively decided and engaged in these legislative procedures lately. I would only mention, for example, when we discussed the Resolution on the National Research and Development Programme at the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, they were not there when we discussed the budget, which was still an important segment, again. And I would urge them from this city, with all due respect, to the extent that they are doing at the same time with this respect, also feel the duty to be a little more determined in the future about the activities relating to the national elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you. Since there is still interest after the debate, I am reopening applications for the debate on Article 6 and the amendments to Article 6. Mrs. Uhanova, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much. As I said in the opening presentation of the Group's position, Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment to Article 6, namely the amendment of the coalition. We think he's better at saving than the other two, as well as the basic bill. In view of the active role of the Association of Slovenian Writers, it was also proposed that one member from the Association of Writers be proposed to the Board of the Agency for a Book. Three members shall have an founder and three shall be selected from the professional public on the basis of a public call. We think that our proposal is better than the opposition's proposal, because it does not exclude all other professional public except the SAZU, universities and the Writers' Society, but it is possible for others to apply for an invitation and may also be chosen. Therefore, this Council better ensures the composition of a public agency, in terms of the area covered by the public book agency, it does not miss authors, publishers, librarians, bookmakers and other companies and factors. Therefore, in New Slovenia, as we say, we will support the amendment of the coalition to Article 6 and, hopefully, we will also improve the basic law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u34	What would be important is that today, when deciding on these solutions, key Articles 6 and 11, we are aware that this law is not just for one year. In fact, the minister knows that in 2009 he will probably no longer be a minister. That's what the budget did. Finally, in 2009, the funds are no longer taken care of, and no longer concerns the implementation and extension of the cultural toll, nor does it have custody in the 2009 projection for the construction of the NUK and even in the 2009 budget for the book there is a percentage less than in 2008, regardless of the fact that the public agency is not being transferred or will go to the public agency. I mean, 2009 is no longer important to the Minister, but it must be so much more important than the law that we are talking about today, no matter where the Minister is then. Not to try to get out of this advantage then, but to what public presentation of his good works he then attached such a law to, and also as a good work, because if he did, we would not be pleased with him. In Article 6, or in the composition of the world, we are all very careful because of our poor experience. With bad experiences, the government has started, with personnel and with its projections of desires and predatory instincts, working for three years and working this time as well. It is no wonder, therefore, that the voice and opinions of the Writer Society were so very kind, of course, that their solution, which we accepted, was offered, and it would be wise, Minister, not only for you to come back to the public and talk about your good works, but by the way, some of them with great reservations we understand, or even with no confidence, to say, "I let them deal with this area autonomously because they may know more than I know or know the Government themselves. In any event, the Government in the national consensus decides, I think, not only on the budget, but also on the objectives and orientations. In short, it is a service that must act autonomously and would do itself a favor, not just a book, but also this year, which you have left behind to leave a voluntary and well-intentioned and well-intentioned solution that we have gathered from members of the opposition, or even the solution that we have proposed in Zares. Practices, as I say, have been bad so far. In public institutions, it was so questionable that some institutions, such as the Film Fund, literally dispersed, but there is not much difference between the agency and the public fund in management, that we do not talk about the fact that virtually all the claims of well-intention in this area have been put into practice when you advocated the so-called expertise and a good solution in the composition of the Council of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia and even the Supervisory Board, which is reflected in all its disintegration and in all its shortcomings and, of course, also in the captivity of so-called stupid and illogical solutions as it is now. In order not to work too hard in the future by amending the laws, I propose that today, however, we listen to what the public, as I say, are also very energetically protested on Monday at the Writers' Society by writers who know what is right and how it would make sense to regulate this area. This area will be important, although it is a service activity, it will take care of a large part not only of the allocation of funds, but, hopefully, also of the evaluation and also of the research activities that will guide and give basis to what and how the nation with its book in the future. I appeal to the support of the amendments, but not to the one you have prepared by the coalition government party, because I think it is even worse than the one in the original version, that it is a real alibi by saying, "Oh, let the representative of the Association of Slovenian Writers be directly named," but it goes to the quota of that part of autonomy that was previously provided by the three directly appointed representatives who were logically represented for this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The more companies are developed, the greater they are, the small differences in societies. Or those differences that seem small. We are here today to discuss whether we will have a public book agency or a state book agency. Some will say that the State Book Agency is also a major step forward in supporting the book in this country. It is also possible to say so, but I would like to be able to do so in Slovenia after we have not really taken this step in the direction of departure from the state to the public after many years. The Complementarity of the Association of Slovenian Writers goes this way. It no longer allows any policy, either one or the one that will come, and policies will come after the various elections very differently, to be in a position to select, from a large number of seemingly very democratically chosen, in fact, democratically even those who are attracted to it. Such a system is now written down here and any talk that politics is mandated, that electorates and voters have empowered it to elect its people into the administrative structures of the funds, agencies and the like, is something that we should leave behind. I am convinced that different laws in different areas should be supplemented in this direction, thus complementing them so that those who work in areas that have their interests and responsibilities there have an important word on those segments. In other words, there is nothing wrong with the Government having representatives and representatives in these structures, but it would be wise if it could withdraw under half. What we have before us is a simple system, out of seven there will be six who will be chosen by policy and one place given to the Association of Slovenian Writers. I'm glad that society has found out what kind of behavior is behind this and that it just insists on its own supplement. If only it were possible, Mr Minister, it would probably be, and a coalition, more than clever if we could make a decision that would be a major breakthrough, but I think that only the second after the 2004 Higher Education Act, a breakthrough in a serious shift from state to public. We are talking about a public agency. This isn't a state book agency. Whoever knows anything about these things is clear to him that it must be such that it is indeed public and that, therefore, it is not necessary for him or her to decide how these authorities will be drawn up if his or her fingers are used to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Before that, a member of the opposition spoke. I'm afraid he went right out. But he said one thesis with which it is worth to argue: that the Slovenian book is losing meaning in the current situation. I must express my deep disappointment at this thesis, including the protest. Above all, I am convinced that it is groundless, because in situations where we are in a situation of globalisation in which we have taken sides with other democratic peoples in the European Union and also with regard to NATO, the Slovenian book is gaining meaning. Slovenian culture thus has different options, greater opportunities and, ultimately, borders no longer separate the constituent parts of the Slovenian people into border areas of neighbouring countries and Slovenia, as it was sometimes very strongly expressed in the past. If we come from the fact that the Slovenian book is important and that we still gain meaning in the modern situation, as we gain the meaning of Slovenian culture, then it is clear that things need to be taken very seriously. The second thing that would follow then is that we also need to take seriously the proposals ahead of us. Today, there are two amendments that I want to discuss with regard to the same article. Both touch the composition of the world. In fact, there is not so much difference between them, but not the one the opposition wants to display so vehemently. For even after their amendment, all things in the world are appointed by the Founder. Everything. I can quote. The Council shall have six members, half of whom shall be appointed by the founder on a proposal from the users and half of whom shall be appointed by the other. So everything's appointed by the Founder. This is also clearly stated in the following Article. Finally, the only difference in that sentence may be that in which case the founder may reject a proposal from one of the applicants. On the other hand, the proposal formulated by the coalition provides that the Council shall have seven members, who shall also be appointed by the founder. This is said to be true, in fact, there is no such big difference. However, this article has one great advantage that you have all been silent about so far. In fact, it requires that the appointment should take into account the representation of representatives of authors, librarians and other developmentists in the field of the book. And in the first place, I emphasize, it puts authors. This is not only a determination, but, in my firm belief, it is a very important provision that prevents those to whom this agency and the funds it will share, in the first place, from eventually being deprived in some way. Because in their proposal, in particular because it ends with an article that I find it difficult to accept, namely, that in the event of an undecided vote, the vote of a member proposed by the SAZU could happen that those in the area of beauty, which I believe is the most targeted agency, would remain in fact empty deadlines. The Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, as the name already says, brings together both people in science and in the field of art. And no one can continue to ensure that she proposes someone in the field of art, but at least in the field of beauty. But you know that scientists also have their interests, even when it comes to the book, they are legitimate and are certainly worthy of consideration. But I say they can't be primary in this case. For there are other possibilities for publishing scientific publications and other vitae. That's what you need to know. And because of this, I believe that the proposal, as designed by the coalition, is better and is more beneficial to the creator of the Slovenian book, especially those in the field of beauty. And now let me go on with the story that I mentioned for a moment at the beginning. I wouldn't explain it if there wasn't so much controversy about it. When Mr Frogot and I discussed this matter, believe me, we were not alone, but it was the end of last week in the new magazine, we explained this whole mechanism to him and he agreed. He said, for the first time, that he had not been thoroughly familiar with the amendment created by the coalition until that moment, that he was only now fully informed and that he was assessing on the basis of this information, and in particular everything that we could overcome there, that the amendment was better than what was originally prepared. Why did he change his mind Monday? Here, if you'll excuse me, a few minutes, but I have a very different thesis on this. It is my opinion that this change is so great and so strongly deviates from what we have been talking about there that I cannot understand it differently than the reflection of what I say with all responsibility the greatest democratic deficit that exists in the country of Slovenia. This is a democratic deficit in the absence of a large number of truly politically neutral civil society institutions. There is a fact that is irrefutable, it is evident that the continuity, the political part that is most easily identified under this name, has been by means of long-standing human and other levers of power in recent periods, led by civil society institutions. This is borne out by the former president of a political party headed by one civil society institution, a member of the same party at the head of another civil society institution. And when it is not possible to establish such total control over an institution of civil society, it resorts to totalitarian control over this institution of civil society, as the SD Vice-President has afforded it, and has sent students as small spikes to record what people are talking about in some civil society institution. And this is this democratic deficit that I'm talking about and we should face. And I am firmly convinced that the reflection of this actual political influence, which is by no means on the part of the ruling coalition of the government, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u39	I'm sorry, Mr Grimes, to calm some Members. Only Mr. Grimes has the floor, Mr. Kumer. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u40	is also reflected in this change of opinion, but I am personally convinced that we must follow, in the first place, not individual opinions, but what we sincerely believe is in favour of the Slovenian book. [[...]] After all, we are bound by the Slovenian Constitution. And once again, I can replay it if you want. I am firmly convinced and all the arguments speak for the benefit of the Slovenian book, and above all for the beauty of the language, the better amendment proposed by the coalition, because it cannot happen that the interests of those creators are pushed aside because everyone who implements this law is obliged to respect them. That is why this amendment is better and I will vote for it, but for the others, of course, I cannot vote. And maybe just for the end. Before that, one lady used the term "plenillary instinct". I do not think that the creation of a situation that will benefit the Slovenian book is in any way possible by this name. Establishing total control over civil society institutions or even the use of totalitarian methods as in the case of Vice-President Pahorje SD, this is a "plenillary impulse". But please, then let each man sweep before his own threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u41	Since there is still interest after the debate, I am opening a re-appeal for the debate on Article 6 and the amendments to this Article. Please, everyone who wants to sign up to sign up. Mr. Bevk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The president of the Committee on Culture again took one trip in his direction. This time in his own name, not on behalf of the committee, as usual he does for the central speaker. But I find it really strange that the Vice-President of Social Democrats and University Professor Igor Luksic influenced the Government of Zebot to change his mind over the weekend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u44	I would only ask that it really be taken into account that I am a Member equal to all others, and I have every right to speak on my behalf, which was from my words, I think is sufficiently clear and that any link between this and the management of the committee is completely inappropriate and inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not going to comment on this episode myself. I think it was from a series of Lost in Space. But I'd like to say something very simple. Comparing the complement of the government coalition with the Complementary Association of Slovenian Writers is very simple. The difference is obvious and also very simple. In the case of the amendment of the government coalition, everyone, except the representative of the Association of Slovenian Writers, appoints authority, while in this second supplement it is known that the Academy, society and university name them themselves. The difference that will be illustrated will be that Blatnik, Moderndorfer, Mozetič will not be appointed in one case, Žižek will not be named in the other case, but those for whom they will be appointed will be named.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u48	What's interesting and sad is that the president of the Association of Writers on the parental committee was so much ignored, then he was heard in some places, we're talking about his decisions today indirectly. And I'm very, very afraid that there's some inappropriate manipulation that can bring about another protest. At the same time, let me stress that those of you who have now supported the coalition amendment, the government amendment, have put things in the right place. Due to the so-called civil society deficit, the democratic deficit of civil society, which is in your mind, if reason, Mr Grims, there is now an absolute surplus and absolute domination, you have confirmed by yourself the interpretation of Article 6 that sets the structure of political supremacy over the public agency as a result of this deficit. And that is not good, so it is necessary to reconsider and give priority to those solutions that actually define the public agency as a public agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'm going to make two kinds of comments about what I've heard. First of all, I would call on my colleague Grims, if he believes that there are not so many differences between these two amendments, to support the first amendment, which we support not only in the opposition, but also in the general public, which is represented to the greatest extent by the Writers' Society, as their colleagues in DeSUS and the Coalition have already decided, and may be decided by someone else during this discussion. If he truly believes that these differences are so small that they are irrelevant, then it seems to me that we are close to preparing a world with which everyone will be satisfied. It is true, as he says, that everything is appointed by the Government, but for three appointments he can refuse only if they do not meet certain conditions, by law prescribed. But he can't choose them from anyone, but he can say, but he can't be in the agency because he's, like, the mayor there and there. And there are other obstacles. And that's the essential difference. The question of the autonomy of the proposal is that the government cannot intervene in their choice, nor can they be defined by some of the lists we have witnessed to them, such as the RTV Act, where the solution was similar to that proposed by the coalition and the government, so that they could propose candidates from the interested professional and other public, and then be determined by those lists. And that was a sad thing to see here in Parliament how it went. This vote, of course, will now be even removed from the public's eyes. And we're against it. So, Comrade Grimes, if you don't find that controversial, back up. However, all those who will be members of the world, regardless of what they will be called within this amendment, which I support, are committed not to the fact that they are scientists or scientists and do not know what else is going on in your head, I do not know what such mistrust in people who are members of, say, the SAZU, but are legally bound by the purpose for which the agency was established and the tasks assigned to it by law, Mr Grims. They don't represent themselves or the SAZU, they don't represent there, I'll say, atomic physics or art class, but they're there to carry out the tasks of this law because of their reputation. That's what our amendment says. However, they are appointed there because they and their institutions enjoy some reputation, which we do not think is necessary, for then the Minister or the government to judge or not. As for this arrangement with the president of the Writers’ Society, this is becoming a bit deguant in this assembly. He doesn't have the right to tell here how these things ran or not. I can also say that this coordination was obviously not so high-quality that the representatives of society or even the editor of the New Region would be drawn to the drafting of this amendment, which you are now referring to, because this amendment, including yours, was forwarded to them by me, not by the Minister and not by the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. I sat myself the day before that in these same rooms, and based on what I know, then they met with you. But that's irrelevant what someone said there. We have before us a letter from a society that says we don't accept it, we don't want to be an alibi for what you intend to do with this law. That's what it says here. It is behind this, if I understand correctly, and it also says so, over 50 writers' minds, different ages and probably different definitions. I don't think the totalitarian reflection that Mr Grims is talking about has fallen on everything. This seems humiliating to me, in fact, to society and to all these people who are there. I can say that, as in Mr Grims's eyes, I am also a leftover of the old regime without difficulty in the old regime, working with the president of the Writer's Association, say Mr Shelig and all the next presidents, and we have never had such problems in understanding what anyone wants in the field of culture, as is now occurring in a rift between the ruling policy and society. Never. Here I did not fully understand how the society was contaminated, that it suddenly became blinded, that it did not understand the light you were bringing into the book’s field. Mr Grims, I don't understand this and somehow naively believe that these are people who are more or less independent than they have been, I will say, not only in the last few years, but in the last 25 years, because I would remind you that certain things have started and also started on Tomšič 14 and that they have been there, as far as I can remember, since the beginning, also those people who belong to Mr Frogot's generation and he himself. To tell him that now, I'm going to say, some extended deadline for CK, which means you've just arrived from South America to Slovenia and for the first time, you've stepped into this place. I hope you know so little about half history if you can tell these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you. Because there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the application again. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When I listen to some of the debates, I simply cannot understand why some do not know how to do their debate without offense. I'll just say it. We have recently received from this woman's quota, on this side, specifically Mrs Shirce, so many insults, for example, 'is there any sense in you at all, if there is any sense at all'. This also happened a few minutes ago at the expense of my colleague, who runs the committee. But if this was the first time, fine. When it was the second time, I didn't react. When it was the tenth time, I was quiet too, but today, when it was the hundredth time that we kept listening to insults, whether there was any sense in us, then I just didn't understand and that's why I called. I'm talking about solutions in Article 6. The resolution in Article 6 proposed by the opposition is exactly the same as for elections. The difference is in the number of members, I admit it. But the rest, when it comes to the Writer Society, is the same solution. That is why I do not understand why he is so gallant and insulted by our fellow Members and so much dismay at the fact that it is government control in society, if you are proposing the same solution yourself. But there are a number of members. I am not discussing this, but I also accept your criticism if necessary, but that is the proposal. As far as appointment is concerned, it's exactly the same. Society to writers, as far as I know, is an institution of civil society. We can discuss in what form, and I accept it, but it is an institution of civil society. You're talking about government control. Of course, I don't agree with that, but I'm just analyzing what you're saying. The government is loved directly by the people, and this is a perfectly normal system in democracy. There's only one other side, let's say in non-democratic, in dictatorships, where the one who is at the head of the dictatorship, with a military coup, determines half of Parliament and the other half determines, I don't know, his brother or his wife. But democracy is the way Slovenia has it. And nothing else. Government control, as you say, which I say is not true, but so much disgust. Then I would just remind you and ask you why you don't resent anything when the vice president of one of the parties, Dr. Lukšič, tells his students to pee, as he said, and I use the term that was already used today, to whine at some civil society bodies, which is also a church, and to give reports on what is said there, probably something else, and then they can analyze it if it's some kind of research task. Why are you here not protesting that this is a political party, not a government, but a political party over a civil institution? Well, let's have a little protest here. And I don't know why so much anger over the solution in Article 6, where election is exactly the same as what you're proposing to some extent. Once again, however, it is true that the number of members is slightly different. But that institution we're talking about gets a member mandatory in any case in the exact same way. And I don't insult anyone. It is true that in this case I do not agree with you, but I do not invite anyone or ask about reason or anything like that. If I'm ever going to do this, I'm going to ask you to give me a hard time. Of course I object, but I have all the legitimate right and so do you, but you don't have to insult us if we don't have sense or if I don't know what. I will, of course, support that then I will not have to explain, the amendment to Article 6 under Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-worker! I am in favour of the first and third amendments to the bill. Of course, first of all, I must say that it is not true that these two proposals are very similar to each other. Only at first sight. The fact is that there is a very important difference between who proposes these members. And the fact is that the Government is expected to take note of and confirm the proposal. It is a custom and a cultural form of political culture that should prevail in every reasonable government. The second thing I would say is that these two amendments are important because they actually decide whether the agency is public or state. The difference is big, important, something was said about her. All I would say is that we believe, as we have repeatedly pointed out in other laws, in some kind of relative autonomy of individual social subsystems, we believe in self-regulatory forces within such subsystems, including cultural and literary ones, and so on and believe that the state should intervene in this only as much as is absolutely necessary and nothing else, and of course nothing less. That is why, of course, I clearly support these two amendments. I would mention, however, that I find it extremely distasteful for one of our fellow Members to explain vehemently what the President of the Association of Slovenian Writers thinks. What he views, how he thinks, and how he changes his attitude. Where did this fellow Member get this inhospitable idea that he knows the most about what other people and the president of the Writer Society and many other people think? Let this fellow Member give up this fact once and for all, and let him think about it and talk about what he thinks, not what other people think and how he represents their thoughts. That would be at least cultural if it wasn't already correct. Of course, I also agree with what my colleague Petan said and attach to it, and I also place it on my colleague Maja Širc's heart, that there is no point in calling for reason anymore and that this is unnecessary work and wasting minutes. Besides, I'm a pessimist. The pessimist, because I read in Dnevnik today about the exhibition in Cekin's Castle concerning the statue of Jožet Pučnik, but you do not judge the exhibition because historical facts are shown there, while the statue is interpreted individually, is under the responsibility of the Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti. This greed, in a relaxed form, certainly tells us and indicates that there is no hope that an amendment will be adopted that would make the agency public and not stately, and that for the cultural policy that is currently being conducted in Slovenia on a book, film or anywhere else there is no hope for at least another year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you. What made me come forward was the claim of one of the colleagues, who unfortunately is not back in the Chamber, who again interpreted it as if there was a huge difference in appointment after one or after the other amendment. In fact, and I warn again, but I can also read both articles again, there is no difference in appointment, because in both proposals, the appointment of all the founders is made. There's only one small part of the difference. In fact, according to both proposals, one is named on a proposal from universities, according to both proposals, a representative company of writers is provided to its member, or after one proposal is named, the Association of Slovenian Writers, according to both proposals, has a special place in the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which also has [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. Skull, I listened to you very carefully, and I didn't reach out to you. I suggest you find so much power on your own and do it, just like a colleague who spoke directly to me. In fact, if I say something you don't like to hear, you don't have to go into the word or protest. There are many things in this country that deserve a protest. For example, the resurgence of forms of totalitarian control is certainly far in the first place among them, and it would be worth talking about it in this Chamber with all determination, as well as in other institutions; I think also in institutions in the European Union, we should say what we should say. But this goes beyond this debate right now, so I'm going back to the article, that's what's important. With these proposals, therefore, the founder has the opportunity to appoint these people. That he also has the right to reject someone also arises from the article proposed by the opposition, since he specifically determines in which cases he may reject someone. What I think almost could not be taken into account in practice if I can honestly tell you because it is difficult for me to imagine that someone in a ministerial position would reject someone who proposes it, for example, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art or, if you would like, the Association of Slovenian Writers. But what's better than the proposal made by the coalition is that last additional member. For the first time, the number of members is odd and then there is no need to go beyond a lot of unusual solutions, such as that of having the last word of someone representing the SAZU. Well, what's important here is that it's particularly stressed here and in the first place that it's also called one by taking into account the representation of authors' representatives. In practice, how do we understand such a mechanism by reading an article as a whole? If, for example, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art appointed its representative and proposed for the final confirmation of someone who was from the area of beauty, then probably, given that the letters were taken into account, the minister would have to choose someone from another type of developmentist in the field of the book. However, if the Slovenian Academy did not choose someone in the field of art, and then it would be likely that taking this into account would mean that the Minister should select someone from the field of authors' representatives, and this would be only for the benefit of the authors. This also prevents any option if you want, which could also be a set of circumstances, depending on these exclusive proposals, so that even authors can be pushed to the brink. For this reason, once again, this proposal is better, it is better for authors of the Slovenian book, it is better for writers, it is better for poets, it is better for all who create the Slovenian book in the most positive sense of the word. And because of this, once again, I firmly believe that it is worth giving priority to this amendment. But to all those who, past the beam, have been contradicting my words, if any of the institutions of civil society think that any of the institutions of civil society are immune before the influence of politics, let them remember that the Association of Slovenian Writers after the period of Mr. Sheliga, when it was certainly the brightest period in its history, was led by someone who was the president of a political party, one less, but was the president of a political party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you. Since there is still interest after the debate, I am reopening the application. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Maybe a few more highlights. Earlier, one of the Members had said that such a world or appointment should be prepared so that everyone would be satisfied. It would probably be difficult to formulate such a proposal. Almost never, or I doubt when everyone's happy. Why do I support the amendment of the coalition groups? Some of you have already mentioned that the difference is whether we appoint 6 or 6 or 7 members. You have a feeling that you want to complicate things and make it difficult to work if there's going to be members of 6 because there's actually going to be an undecided outcome and then -- who has that deciding voice, I don't know. I would also like to expect other amendments to move forward with a solution that foresees an odd number of members of the Council. Some of you have been saying whether the amendments are similar or not, that is, Mr. Skolcz's amendment or the Zares Group. In certain matters, they may be similar, but not in one, when you say that the founder can refuse to be a member only if the criteria set out in paragraph 2 are not met, etc. If someone is the founder and also the founder of a supervisory function, that is to say, control over it, we must probably allow him to put people or appoint them, those who assume that they will do things the way they should. There can be no founder, then let others decide when something is wrong, as we are actually witnessing in the Film Fund, but then the minister is guilty because he has not done or should have done something else and something else. At the same time, who proposed or adopted such a law and such a solution that when the director of the Film Fund resigns, they must seek out someone within the supervisory branch and so on? In short, very bad solutions have been prepared once before, not in this period, but in this period what has been complicated with all these processes is being resolved. In addition, you talk a lot about the fact that policy wants to influence everything that we do not want to give experts to the Council of the Agency, and so on - I know that we are not talking about Article 8, but Article 8 is talking about the Agency's expert commissions, which are those who will give opinions and evaluations to the draft programmes and projects in the field of the book, proposing cultural policy measures, scientific policy measures, other development measures in the allocation process. It is so hard to say that I will now push the entire expertise somewhere to rob and now the policy will decide everything. That is why I cannot accept this thesis, and once again, with all these big words about worrying about the book during our accession negotiations with the European Union, so Slovenia's accession to the European Union, it would be expected from those of you who are such serious advocates and you are so very concerned about the Slovenian book that you will then apply a lower tax on the Slovenian book, just as many countries have done, but now we have missed it and you are very clear that we have not done certain things. So, the care for the book is probably not from yesterday and we could have shown it before, I think that with the Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia this Government is doing this, and I am glad that we are participating in this and I regret that we were unable or could not do this when we joined and could actually do more for our book. The ones you were, and you could have done it, and you didn't. In this way, I will support the amendment of the coalition under Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I may have said too quickly earlier that it's not really what my colleague Grims is saying, but of course it's not true, they're not both amendments alike. Look, after one amendment, to where I'm first-signed, the minister can name three and three autonomously, as we've said many times, society, SAZU and universities. On the other hand, the minister appoints 6 and one company to amend the coalition for the third or fourth time. So in one we have a ratio of 3:3, the public : a policy if I simplify, and in the other we have a policy : a public. That's it. To avoid, say, the ministry or coalition rejecting the proposal of the Writers' Society. This one's even thicker. I don't know why they would believe you. When it came to the world of RTV, I'm going to remember all the names now, because there were hundreds of them, but I'm going to remind you that the Society has proposed two, maybe even three. I know you must have refused with those leaves, your internals, Dr. Ihan and Dr. Kosa, Jr., of course. That's what you did. Don't tell me we're gonna believe you're not gonna do this from now on! You have rejected Mr Grafenauer, whom I believe was proposed by both the Academy and the New Magazine. Don't tell me you won't choose one of the academics who's more obedient to you. That's what we're talking about. And let's get some clean wine. You want to manipulate, we don't give you consent. That's the whole story. If it's the same solution, if you think it's the same thing, if you want to sell it to someone, then back up this solution we got from the Society. I am sorry that my long-standing acquaintance, Mr Zabot, cannot tell you what you are and what you have not considered. I will not speak for him, but I assure you that he stands behind what he has signed and what all Members have in their hands. I have also seen this this morning and therefore it seems to me that his signature counts at least before this public and I hope to say more to the Slovenian public than your fairy tales. We've caught you on short legs many times.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u62	Just for a little while. I'm not going to comment on the insults. This is a testimony to the man who does this because he is not the first, even the lady who was already before him, so that he has a pleasant society. At least that. What I'd like to say for a moment. Before that, there was one clue as to how New Magazine and the like was. I assure you that in this conversation there was also someone from the New Magazine and was absolutely in favour of the amendment in the form prepared by the Coalition, and also on the basis of the assessment of the people in the New Magazine who are dealing with it, who are also responsible for it, after all, because they are publishers that it is a better solution for beauty and for the Slovenian book in general. And by the way, what some of you have constantly inspired, I've never talked about anyone about what he meant. I have just said an event which, in my opinion, is relevant to understanding this story, and I also said that I think that the changes that are then taking place in the positions of individuals are, in my firm opinion, a reflection of the fact that it can also be politically influenced in individual environments, and of course, I also, of course, think that, sufficiently figuratively.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you. Since there is still interest after the debate, I am opening up the possibility of re-appealing. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u64	I have to say, when I listen to these discussions, of course I remember a little back. And in this regard, I must say that my colleague, Školč, has an extremely rich experience in the field of political training in the field of culture. You could even say that he has a great "know-how" to put the staff of the liberal academy in the institution and that he was very successful, that he was very successful. I think one such case was the cultural world. It seems to me that what he's saying today is some "salto mortale" based on previous positions and I've been worrying about watching him stand still because these "salto mortale" sometimes breaks his spine. And because of this, it seems to me, without much to study, this proposal, which was put by three parties, somewhere between what he once represented, what is now very nicely wrapped, in an extremely precious cellophane wrap, is what he proposes. And that's why I'm going to support this other amendment. I'd also say that I've heard earlier that the RTV Program Council is manifesting itself in all its disintegration. Maybe he's been named or elected recently, who's trying to contribute to some disintegration, but I don't know if it's a program world thing, but last week, when we're talking about a book today, I've been watching this show, which my colleague Moze said was a little bit of a drink asking "The Book I care about." And in that show, they didn't care about the book. But they did consider a book, and I think that Mr Visjak, which you have proposed in this programming world, was the lowest level of political struggle based on cultural struggle. Unfortunately, the iconography of someone there in short pants in such a discussion in the evening contributed further to this. And this is an attempt at decomposition. But it's not a matter of the programming world, it could actually worry a lot of people. But on the other hand, that broadcast is an irrefutable proof that it is not really what you say about censorship and I do not know what and what the same people who spoke in short pants there, but I think that there was also some doctor of science from journalism, evidence, material evidence that, in fact, those who are the loudest and most censors speak have excellent access to the possibility of spitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u66	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment to Article 6 proposed by the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jožef Školč, because, just as it is, it allows us not to change the meaning of the word 'public', so that it does not actually become public, government, private in any way. In fact, I will not respond to what Mr. chiropractor has just said. But the cultural struggle is always due to the end of democratic dialogues. And you keep reminding us in the coalition, under any law, that we are going to a cultural struggle. So you've already gotten the obvious democracy into that position that some other mechanisms should also be used. It is also a moral reason why I will support Mr Jožef Školč's proposal, or the proposal of the Association of Slovenian Writers. I've known Mr. Government Frog for about 27 years. We met when the writer was a beginner, a lover, and in 27 years, there was always a man's word, always, in all matters. The coalition proposals not to talk about people, I know three years, nine times less, and they rarely came out the way they needed to be followed by someone who would tell him that a man is a word. If we look at the latest text of a different publication of proposals online, such as: pressures, blackmail and the end of the cultural struggle. It's like it's a bad thing. It's all over the top. So I think it would be good if you looked in the mirror, but you're talking to yourself and then you're making a decision. The fact that this government is subject to "argentum non uniform" is quite clear. And since this is connected with power, it is also clear that all the proposals of any law that we are considering here are particularly worth looking at where is that article that speaks about where funds, power, power must be directed. That's all you want to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thanks again. See, after the amendment we are proposing, and also in the original Article 6, the Government stated that "at the invitation of the Ministry, candidates will be able to propose all those concerned with the book". So not only - you define with your amendment the representative of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the representative of the University and the Association of Slovenian Writers. In doing so, you exclude all those who are also committed to caring for the book or who are working intensively on it. If you look at Article 1, where we're talking about what we're supposed to provide with this law, so the conditions for publishing books, it says, we have here book publishers, creators in the field of beauty and science, say, the authors are excluded. The development of reading culture, the development of a bookstore network, are made by bookstores, libraries, etc. Following the proposal proposed by the Government, and especially after that, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Jeraj. Time's up. Since it's still an interest or is it still an interest, I ask? [[...]] I saw one hand. [[No, no, ……]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you're still answering.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So much has been said and many things have been repeated. However, I will try to answer a few things in a row, or I will be able to complete myself later if necessary and allow time. First, it was said how late this law is before us, if not too late, and some humorousness about the millennial dreams some have regarding the book. First of all, it must be said that no one has talked about the millennial dreams and that the sacredness of the book can be taught to you about when holiness and such matters are stopped, but some are spoken of for entirely different reasons. Otherwise, this is the end of the 18th century. And at the sanctity of the book, by the way, the whole of Europe is resting and all the countries are pleading for it. So, in short information, given the deep knowledge I've heard here. Otherwise, we have been talking about a book with us since 1995, mainly about such proposals from various associations for the establishment of an agency, and more intensely since 2000, when Rudy Sheligo set it up with his programme. I think we're just continuing some broader desire in this regard. I'd say it's not a particular threat to the book, but it's a matter of having the right place. We certainly agree with that. We have our own country, which is a national state. It is named after a nation that has created all national and political institutions that ensure the existence of such a nation, its identity and culture. So we have a country that, with its economic, material and cultural and material and spiritual foundations, guarantees this autonomy and sovereignty, which is also expressed in the field of culture. And here the country, I must say, has been expressing itself in recent years, but certainly also in recent years, sufficiently generous and supportive of culture and is aware of its smallness, if you wish, and also in this regard culture and books in this regard. And in relation to this culture or book, in recent years at the Ministry of Culture, even before my term of office, much attention has been paid to - what Mrs Jerajev said before - the subsidies of books by publishers, the purchase of books, the co-financing of books for programmes, the co-financing of book fairs, the maintenance of libraries, the maintenance of library fees, poetry and literary meetings, festivals, the financing of Slovenian Writers' Associations, it seems to me to be a great deal, the whole range of scientific and literary magazines, translation, foreign languages, literary tours and so on. It would be hard to say here that there is a lack of will, a lack of time in the past, and a lack of it now. There is a lot, we are aware of it, and that is why we have also come to design a book agency at this time. And those who say it's too late would have done it sooner. I don't think you wanted to and that you always had a fig in your pocket to control your political, or otherwise, pressures like that. Regarding the world that has been troubled - the Law on Public Agencies makes a very clear suggestion as to how the world should actually be composed: or with an odd number, the suggestion is from 3-9 members and this clearly states that they want it to be the intention that an odd number, which, of course, comes out of practice and has, logically, a basis and an explanation. Even with the public science agency, in fact, which was established or established by the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Council is composed of four members appointed by the Government and three members named by others, and there have been no specific debates in recent years. By the way, I may be a little jumpy, but as far as RTV is concerned, this is Parliament's vote and there are two members of the Writers' Society in the world. Maybe they're no good to anybody, and that's why they think they're not. Two members of the Association of Writers are in the world of RTV. With regard to the National Programme for Culture, which talks about compliance already in 2004. This is mainly about the budget fund, but not about the public fund, nor about the agency and this public fund or agency that we are setting up now, is a major qualitative leap in comparison to the budget fund. The budget fund, you know, is within the Ministry and it is only a special item and a relative cosmetic, I would say, a matter, but not a particularly great autonomy, which I think is precisely our proposal for a law. It makes it very clear that three are appointed by the founder, these are the three actually funded if you want this, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Higher Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance, and four from a completely professional environment, and in my opinion, a democratic and fair way. Someone said that we all pleaded with the importance of the book, that the budget for the book did not go up or that it was not sufficiently high. Listen, we'd have done it in the past years, and every year we'd have at least 10% raise the money for the book, and it'd be okay! I think that this has increased in recent years much more intensively - even under the previous Minister, by the way, in the last year of her term, it has increased significantly. However, those who were ministers and who were reading about a thousand-year longing to others, then you were ministers, in fact you did very little or nothing, but in particular you did not set up a book agency where you would do it democratically, autonomously, independently as you propose now. I suggest, you and also in public institutions and everywhere throughout Slovenia, the saints are such or different, always even and odd. I think it's a similar matter of influence if you want, and I'm calling today here and now, so those of you who are still in the worlds that this terrible minister hasn't replaced, to give a resignation statement to get out of the worlds of modern galleries and I don't know where you are. Come on, if you're so unpolitical and I don't know what! One lady was in the world of Cinematheque, where she cared more about her own personal interests than she did about Cinematheque. The cinema hasn't worked in two years, because it's been in complete disarray, and it's obvious today I don't know what a mess it is. I like those Latin talks that appear many times, so I would respond with your proposals, which you so vehemently advocate in terms of democracy and purity, that the preferred policy would not be anywhere at all, so one Latin proverb says: 'cartata non erubescid'', I hope you will translate for yourself what it means if someone doesn't know I translate it. Otherwise, everything in the law can be written down, the only question is, in fact, if such proposals are also legally feasible or if they are not just a manoeuvre for some manipulation and excitement of some political climate, that someone has a fig in his pocket and that he wants to influence the book. Excuse me, in the last ten years, when the agency wasn't there, how much did the book have on it directly and determine who would issue what addresses and so on? We can also look for years ago. As regards the members of the Council, when it came to the conflict of interest regarding the amendment of the coalition. Therefore, it is very clear that it is the elimination of those who come into conflict of interest, by law it is also by administrative procedure and by law of public agencies, so that these findings are totally inappropriate. So, we are talking now also in the world proposed by the LDS Group to elect a president from among its members and, on the other hand, if we come to an undecided vote, the vote of a member of the SAZU should be weighted. So, usually the voice prevails from who is the President of the Council, and it is very interesting, now the President of the Council will be elected by the members of the world and expressed his trust as his excellence, that he can lead it, and then there will be, say, a member of the SAZU, there will be matters where there would be an even number - although there is no such thing in any world, let's just say that it would be here - and a member of the SAZU will decide. I don't know, I think it's a big paradox and the conflict it's causing. Even among the members of the world themselves, this would cause conflict, and it would be rather unconstant, and I think it would also cause great problems. About political supremacy and the various cases of movies: Lost in space and the primal urge - interesting to fall on a book that, we are talking about, makes people think of comparisons from the film world. It means they prefer to go to the movies to read books. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to say, "Poločnik's heads," because it seems to me that I'm already a little bit of an indication that I'm accepting these impressions, and above all, that there's no hope, one of the Members said. [[...]] Listen, I express that there is no hope when a party president, an ideaological leader, defected to another party and spoke publicly about how he used his chessboard as a spider, at the same time described how he mastered the media and how he viewed a private intelligence service as his own. These are all public documents, and you still have a man like that among you and you tell us there is no hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Skull, the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u72	I would like to explain that these fears, which the Minister has now given to the composition of the Council, are in this regard the number of judges and that, in the event that the number of votes has been halved, the representative of the SAZU decides that these are things that have been very preconceived and that they are legally sustainable. These are not fears that could jeopardize the acceptance of such an amendment. This provision is certainly in force to recommend that the holy agencies be composed of between 3 and 9 members. After no interpretation of this cannot be understood so that it is not possible to be 4, 6 or 8. Between 3 and 9, at least so far, there has been a reasonable interpretation that the number is also 4, 6 and 8. Dictation about whose voice is decisive has not been suggested by the Liberal Democracy as it tries with its own - he says, "I don't know who, probably Liberal Democracy." It's a diction that came from the Writers' Society. It has also been verified by the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament. The legislative and legal service of Parliament has allowed for an opportunity, and the Society has had foreign legal advisers at the Faculty of Law and has allowed them to do so. Let us also believe that this is legally correct. It may be unusual for a person to have a double voice and for another to theoretically lead this council of agencies, but it is a matter of dealing with the law unequivocally with the problem of what happens when the vote is undecided. And formally, it doesn't matter whether a double vote is given to the president or given to one of the proposed ones. There is no problem with that, of course. Perhaps the problem is that you already imagine who the president would be, and you will name him, and you would be disgusted, because if you didn't have a double voice at the time, let's say, you should decide on some quick means if someone were to miss, say, a call that's already happened to you, and now everyone's wondering about it in different ways. At the same time, I think it is very important that you also say that there are 2 members of the Association of Slovenian Writers in the Council of RTV. I don't doubt it. But that's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. This is the story, and that is, I will say, the whole content of the difference in Article 6. We would like to discuss this in the next article, Minister, and there is no doubt that you will be able to raise funds for books, but we would also like you to have your fingers very far away from the fact that money is being distributed that it will not be necessary to explain why one and the same publications all these years on extraordinary items get more than the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed Jožef Školč. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 11 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Shirca, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you. My word, as instructed by my colleague, will be more emotional and less rational, which is understandable. We are in Article 11, which is very important in terms of the future of action and the cuts in resources to be allocated to the book. The article speaks of funding and an amendment supported by opposition groups, which came from the proposal of the Association of Writers to sum up, has some meaningful built-in logic within it, based on a long-established principle that the value of the tax collected from the book should be returned to the book. This amendment, in short the whole text of the operation or of the law on the public agency, is more designed. Although the state rejects, the government rejects this amendment, the coalition parties also, with a very intrusive argument for us, if the state does not know how much of this tax is, in short, the tax that comes from the book. That seems illogical to us, which is why we think he might not want to know. It is also illogical, from this point of view, that in the last year, I think that last October we received the answer of the Ministry of Finance, which was given to Ambassador Joseph Školč when he asked about how much of this money he was making. In short, it is a binding provision, if you listen to this amendment, that is a binding provision by which the law avoids certain abstract dictions and which says that money is needed to increase the book or publishing book according to the calculation it proposes. And it comes from that philosophy that the value added tax comes back from the book. I also understand this amendment as the fear or discomfort of everyone that the situation may be - regardless of the reasons why - but it has worsened for the book and that this ensures some stable source of funding. These fears are entirely justified. We know that at this moment we are also meeting with some of the programmes that have been abolished in the future, this is, for example, a cultural tolar, which in the field of publishing librarying, but has a lot of support for this cultural policy in the field of the book. And in the end, many of the signs are - before I talked about the reduced funds in 2009, the index is only 96% - and so the assurance, as proposed, would mean that each year the funds in 20% of the tax collected from the book in the previous year are increasing. With this, I must also say that the Agency would most likely, what is not happening now, at the Ministry of Finance - obviously if they have such problems - and not in culture, there would be evaluations and also calculations of what proportions of books are within the economy or activity and what percentage is this; if you can't calculate them so far, SURZ is, say, talking about large sums. In short, with this amendment, the unstable future of the book could, perhaps, improve or gain some security framework. Instability, however, is present at all steps or fear of diminishing the significance of the book, regardless of the fact that we all swear on it in turn and on its role as a book within the national identity. The book is on schedule - for example, we have listened to how good it is to discuss the book in a relaxed way. Mr Jerovšek spoke, but he wondered about the content, which, for example, would not need to be asked inside. But he wasn't wondering what he could do -- why the thought of the book was so much like in very late night hours on the program. They also ask about the members of the Programme Council. It is clear that Mr Jerovšek is asking what Mr Vezjak, representative of the Council of RTV Slovenia, is doing, because he thinks and asks questions, say, about the membership of the Council in RTV Slovenia, which is marked by the political function of the political party. I am talking about Mr Pivc, who is a political party official in Maribor, party leader, and also a member of the Council of RTV Slovenia. In short, the book is not so stable and is not so self-evident that it has a stable position, so it makes sense if the funds that come or are produced by the book by way of a tax deduction are returned to it and this amendment makes it possible. It would be very good to support it and thus ensure what I call greater stability in the financing of the book.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Well, I would have understood if the Minister of Finance had objected to this supplement, but he was opposed by the Minister of Culture, and it was understandable to me. I would not discuss this amount of funds, because, last but not least, we have heard at this Monday's assembly that everything is not as nice as it shows, but the problems with money for this and for other purposes have certainly been always and will be, regardless of this supplement. This supplement is particularly important because it strengthens the power of the Agency and increases, I will say, the certainty of increasing the resources for the purposes for which the Agency is established. That's why I think it makes sense to support it. It was also based on that multi-annual effort of various entities, not only writers and bookkeepers, to return much of the tax collection or all of it back to this book chain. This is why the amendment is written so that funds are taken as a basis in last year's year, some of the calculations they prepared in statistics we have, and then these funds increase in five years at a certain rate. This would suggest support, which would also mean that, in the future agency, they can more confidently plan actions and spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly present the essential solutions to the proposal for a new law. The basic objective of this law is to achieve full compliance with the rules of the European legal order, namely the Directive governing the operation of reinsurance undertakings in the Community. Since the directive follows already established Community legislative solutions, the amendment of the law in this area will complement the already existing insurance law, which already covers the functioning of reinsurance undertakings in Slovenia well. The greater impact of the Directive is expected at European Union level, as there are still obstacles to the functioning of reinsurance undertakings in certain countries. In the subsection of the law relating to the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings, the amendment of the law clearly distinguishes the amounts necessary to calculate the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings or reinsurance undertakings. In the same sub-chapter, rules and restrictions applicable exclusively to reinsurance undertakings shall be made clearer in the area of covert assets in certain locations. The proposal for a new law further allows the transfer of a portfolio for reinsurance undertakings which are not obliged to use public information means to inform insurers. The expected novelty is also an addition to the divestment of the share where an additional obligation is laid down for a qualified holder to notify, in the event of a divestment of the share equal to or above the qualifying share, the previous Insurance Supervisory Agency thereof. In the amendment, the following five amendments are to be mentioned. First time. Certain amendments and additions define more clearly the insurance and reinsurance transactions carried out by insurance or reinsurance undertakings from Member States and third countries. Another time. The auditor’s actions in the event of a finding of a violation of laws or other regulations shall be further defined, which shall further contribute to the strengthening of the supervision and the safe operation of reinsurance undertakings. Third time. The Slovenian Insurance Association is allowed to bring together all insurance undertakings that can carry out insurance business in the Republic of Slovenia, allowing insurance companies from EU Member States or third countries to become members. Fourth time. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia shall be formally designated to collect and publish the necessary information relevant for the use of sex as a decisive actuarial factor in calculating premiums and levies for the purposes of insurance and related financial services. And in the end, it's the fifth time. The new law also changes the amounts of fines from tolars to euros, with the ranges being corrected in accordance with the current law on offences. Finally, I would say that the Government considers those solutions and the proposed changes to be appropriate and necessary. The draft law was also coordinated in the preparation process with the representatives of the insurance industry, it is said with the Slovenian Insurance Association as well as with the supervisory institution of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. We therefore propose that the proposed law be adopted by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Starman, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 30th meeting, on 9 October 2007, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act transmitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments to the article as reflected in the report. These comments were taken into account by the Committee in the drafting and adoption of its amendments, which are also mentioned in the report. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or of the Ministry of Finance and Legal Services attended the meetings of the Committee. As we have already heard, the basic objective of the proposed law is to achieve full compliance with the European Directive governing the functioning of reinsurance undertakings. There was no debate. The proposed amendments were adopted, which constituted harmonisation on the basis of the recommendations of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which we propose to be adopted by the Assembly, has been prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Mark Pavliha will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Reinsurance and reinsurance law are, from the point of view of laymen, like some kind of black magic in insurance, as only a handful of experts are roasted with them. However, this type of activity can be described more easily than insurance insurance for insurance companies, for example, with the following practical example: the insurance company insurancees a facility of EUR 10 million and then re-insures itself for, for example, 30%, which means that in the event of any damage, 30% of the compensation can be recovered from the reinsurance undertaking and, of course, it will have to pay 30% of the total premium. The reinsurance was traditionally regulated very liberally or excluded from practically all the rules relating to insurance. Let me mention, for example, our bond code, which in the section on the insurance contract reinsurance specifically exclusively. Let me mention the former 1994 Insurance Act and the entire acquis communitaire, i.e. the European acquis, which until recently had one Single Directive of 1964, which allowed reinsurance undertakings to operate directly in all Member States. Then, at the beginning of this millennium, some catastrophes occurred. All we can think of is the terrorist attack on a twin in New York City, a number of hurricanes, disasters, earthquakes, and it soon became clear that the supervisory authorities responsible for insurance have insufficient leverage to control the fulfilment of minimum capital requirements in terms of reinsurance. That is why there is a need for countries to arrange reinsurance in a similar way as insurance and insurance. Slovenia was advanced here, as it had already adopted an insurance law in 2000 which, in other words, applies all the provisions meaningfully and also requires reinsurance undertakings. Thus, the adoption of the 2005 directive, we could say, only points to the whole regulation. We will therefore support this change in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. We also support the other mentioned changes, which are necessary, such as the membership of European insurance companies in the Slovenian Insurance Association, then the obligation of other European insurance companies to ensure by means of a certificate that they will finance the damage fund. We are interested in the amount of 30 per cent for the possible investment of the cover fund in various investments. Why exactly 30%, but as we say, otherwise the novelty is good. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that now that we have arranged reinsurance, of course, we are also thinking that the biggest Slovenian reinsurance company Sava will finally be able to operate smoothly in such a way that we can reshape it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will give the position of the delegation of Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u84	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support amendments and additions to the Basic Insurance Act. The Insurance Act deals with matters relating to the establishment, operation, supervision and termination of insurance undertakings. Insurance companies are an important group of non-monetary financial institutions and operate within the framework of the legislation applicable to companies. Statistics show that insurance and reinsurance activities are developing much faster in Slovenia than the entire economy. And they are getting closer to European insurance standards. As in all financial areas, Slovenia's membership in the European Union also brings considerable obligations in the insurance sector. We had to transpose European directives into legislation and practice. More and more comprehensive links in European financial markets also require appropriate legislation. The upgrading and harmonisation of the existing law with the directives, in particular the reinsurance directive, is an essential reason for amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. In addition to aligning with European legislation, the proposal for amendments and supplementing the law also provides some clearer, more specific definitions of concepts and practices. Among these, the following are most exposed. The application of the law to insurance and reinsurance undertakings is clearly separated. The obligation to notify the Insurance Supervisory Agency in the case of sales is more clearly defined. The provisions relating to the reporting of auditors are more binding. However, foreign insurance companies are given the possibility of voluntary participation in the Slovenian Insurance Association. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment and amendment of the law, because we want to align insurance, which is developing very quickly, with the European legal order and European insurance standards as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will give the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government! Colleagues and colleagues! The new insurance law is needed primarily to comply with the European legal order. This is a reinsurance directive that harmonises the rules for the operation of reinsurance undertakings on the European market. This will, in particular, contribute to greater transparency of the reinsurance market in Europe. From the point of view of greater transparency and competitiveness, as an appropriate solution, we accept the so-called single passport that a particular reinsurance undertaking will acquire when certain conditions are met. The fulfilment of these conditions means, above all, the possibilities for a reinsurance undertaking to be free to set up branches or to provide services throughout the EU market. In addition, the implementation of the said Directive ensures safe operation and conditions for third-country insurance undertakings wishing or operating in the EU area. All legislation towards harmonisation of the European market is important. It allows Slovenian companies, in a particular case, to participate equally in this market and, of course, also opens up opportunities for the equivalent performance of foreign reinsurance undertakings on the Slovenian market. The latter certainly contributes to increasing competitiveness and thus to improving the quality of services. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law or amendment and the amendment of the Insurance Act. I would not like to repeat all the concrete solutions that the proposed novelty brings, and it seems important to us that the proposed novels, following the proposal's assurances, are also aligned with the public concerned, i.e. with the representatives of the insurance sector and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! It's a European directive and it doesn't make much sense to talk, it's not about subsidiarity, it's about respecting the rules of the club we're in. December 10th is the deadline for implementation. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I should stress paragraphs 12 and 16. Article 12 diverges between the requirements of the 2005 Directive, i.e. the Directive of the European Council and of the European Parliament in amounts of EUR 50 million in the case of a premium ratio and EUR 35 million in the case of a harmful ratio for reinsurance undertakings. These amounts have been changed and raised by three million or two million in the second case. It is important that Article 16 specifies that in order to strengthen the prudential and safe management of reinsurance undertakings it is necessary to provide that auditors are obliged to report to the competent authorities without delay whenever they find, during the performance of their tasks, that there are factors in accordance with the 2005 Directive which may seriously affect the financial situation or administrative and accounting organisational insurance or reinsurance undertaking. These are two essential elements, in our view, which are defined by the directive and we must, we want or we do not want to respect them. In view of the fact that there was no discussion on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the insurance law, we will also uphold the rules of the game in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. My colleague Willi Rezman will, I'm sorry, my colleague Ivan Yelen will give his position to the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act for the current insurance regime does not constitute major or substantial changes, but builds it up in certain areas in order to comply with the European acquis. Other amendments and additions, however, involve editorial corrections, the elimination of minor inconsistencies in the previous transposition of directives and coordination with other internal rules. With regard to the adaptation of our insurance regime to a European directive that wishes to harmonise the scope of the business of reinsurance undertakings on the European market, the draft law follows the provisions of this Directive. This provides for a system of issuing authorised reinsurance undertakings on the basis of which it is possible to operate in any Member State of the European Union. To this end, a system of supervision by the home Member State shall also be established. In accordance with the principle of sound and prudential management, rules on investments in assets, rules on the required capital adequacy, minimum capital rules and measures available to the competent supervisory authorities in cases where infringements are found. The possibility of re-insurance operations is further regulated for foreign insurance undertakings already authorised to re-insurance in our country, provided that the requirements relating to the operation of insurance undertakings in the country of establishment are at least the same as in the European Union and that such transactions will be possible both through branches and directly. By introducing definitions of new concepts, the addition in this context will contribute to a clear understanding of the area of indirect insurance and reinsurance transactions. The provisions relating to the Slovenian Insurance Association are also being supplemented, namely, to provide for the possibility of pooling into this association also those organisations or legal entities in which it interferes, inter alia, with the field of insurance, but the possibility of their membership has so far been excluded. The interest of each country is certainly an effective functioning of insurance activities, as it is an important part of the financial system of each company and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the legal basis is regulated to ensure the stability and reliability of insurance operations. We are convinced that the area of insurance has been adequately designed and upgraded in the light of continuous development, including through coordination with the European acquis. In view of the fact that the law is aligned with both insurance representatives and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, we will also support the proposed legal content in the field of insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Hungarian and Italian Group of the National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. The aim of the bill is to achieve full compliance with the European Directive governing the functioning of reinsurance undertakings in the European Union. The Directive will lay down rules for the functioning of reinsurance undertakings in the European market which are not currently harmonised so as to facilitate their operation in this area. Harmonised rules for reinsurance companies will contribute to greater international financial stability as more transparency and less regular arbitration will take place on this market. A system of authorisation shall be introduced with certain conditions to be met by reinsurance undertakings to obtain authorisation and a system of supervision by the home Member State. The authorisation issued will constitute a single passport for operation in any Member State of the European Union, either through the establishment of a branch or through the freedom to provide services. A safety and prudential rule will also be introduced. The law is to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Insurance is an important service activity for each country, both legal and natural persons. The importance of insurance is also reflected in the detailed legislative regulation of the operation of insurance service providers, the regulation of the different types of provisions and the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings and the special supervision of insurance undertakings. It is therefore a specific activity such as banking. It is therefore not uncommon for the Slovenian Parliament to decide relatively often on changes to insurance legislation. This has been changed in 2002, 2004 and 2006, as well as its adaptation to the EU acquis. The current amendments and additions to the Insurance Act are first of all necessary in order to comply with the 2005 European Directive governing the functioning of reinsurance undertakings. This Directive has laid down similar rules for reinsurance undertakings to operate on the single European market than for insurance undertakings themselves. Reinsurance undertakings shall also be subject to authorisation to carry out activities, to operate in any Member State and to supervision by the home Member State. Secondly, this Directive lays down rules for their capital adequacy and investment. In order to strengthen the prudential and safe operation of reinsurance undertakings, additional obligations are proposed in this Act for reinsurance auditors to report promptly to other competent authorities. The following amendment, which will contribute to greater safety for insurers, relates to the regulation of obligations for insurers of other EU Member States who carry out compulsory car insurance for us. These will have to become members of the Slovenian Insurance Association and join the Damage Fund and the Damage Bureau. The next, in our opinion, is a welcome amendment to the proposal that membership in the Slovenian Insurance Association could also be obtained by other companies operating in the field of special insurance, such as pension companies. To this end, the definition of the concept of an insurance undertaking as members of an association shall be amended. Furthermore, with the aim of improving the safety and transparency of the operation of the law, the obligations of EU Member States insurance undertakings to the Insurance Supervisory Agency are more precisely laid down when they wish to provide additional health insurance to us. The amendments to the law also relate to the deletion of the specific treatment of the Slovenian Export Company, which was the State Insurance Agency for Economic Affairs from 1992 to 1996. As of 1 January 2007, it became a bank by transferring one part of the business relating to insurance to another legal entity. These are the most important substantive changes to the Insurance Act, which will contribute to the development of insurance, to its greater security or stability and transparency for the benefit of all insurers, and we will therefore support these changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the draft law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. Members and Members, we move on to 20. At the time of the day, this is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on Public Deposits. The hearing shall take place on short notice. However, I would like to inform you that we have an estimated 55 minutes of time for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Janko Webro. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the law is not suitable for further consideration. So it's a negative conclusion. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to my colleague, Comrade Bojan Starman, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 30th meeting, on 9.10., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Funds, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption by a group of Members with first-signed Janko Webro. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which proposed that at least the first paragraph of that provision should be amended accordingly, and in the case of the adoption of the law, given that the proposal contains only two amendments without addition to the final edition, the title of the law should also be corrected in the final edition. In addition to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 28.8.-2007 and of the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of 8.10.2007, which considered the legislative proposal to be an interested working body. That committee has not supported the text submitted and is proposing to the home committee for adoption that the legislative proposal is not suitable for further consideration. A representative or government representatives from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting of the committee. First, the Committee had before it a decision by the proposer, a procedural decision to forward the text of the proposed amendments to the local communities. This decision was not adopted, so the proposal for a law continued to be examined. It is intended to ease the damage to municipalities which do not receive part of the compensation from concessions in state forests or from part of the lease for state agricultural land. The applicant pointed out, however, that management of forests and agricultural land heavily burdens local infrastructure. After a lengthy discussion and argument on the one hand and on the other, those who supported the proposed amendment and those who opposed it, it was finally decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration. We also propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the same decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you for the report. However, I give the floor to the representative of the bill-maker. Comrade Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the proponents. Let me say that the law provides that in the division of a parcel lying in the area of walled areas and partly in the areas of agricultural areas, the cost of the parcelisation of the Agricultural Land Fund shall be borne. So far, it is stated in the law that this is the cost of the congregation. So we suggest that this is the cost of the fund. Another solution is that the built - up building land owned by the State becomes the property of the congregation. These are two key solutions that we want to enforce by amending the law on public funds, in relation to Article 57, which deals with this issue. We also see the basis and reason for this because the Court of Auditors and also the Supervisory Committee of the Fund have always warned in their reports that the Fund does not yet have the records of the land managed and managed on behalf of the State. In addition, we note that the Fund has very large surpluses of revenue over expenditure. However, much of these surpluses are generated directly by the transport of building land. However, the fact is that the excess fund does not wish to transfer the surplus to the state budget, as mandated by the Agricultural Land Fund Act. Therefore, we believe that such a solution as we have in the law, that the costs of the lotation are borne by the fund and that the building land is owned by the municipalities is very welcome in improving the financial situation in the municipal budgets. We also note that, in the construction of the buildings, the agricultural land fund does not have a legal basis for the transport of building land. We therefore propose that they become their own congregations. This solution also contributes greatly to the improvement of the budgetary position of the municipalities. The fact is that municipalities are not dealing with surpluses in their budgets, but are dealing with the problem of over-indebtedness and, of course, the fund is creating surpluses, as I said. The government opposes these solutions, but we note that the government's opinion is not determined on the costs of partitioning, but the Government literally condemns the municipalities, by adopting spatial acts, to devote new areas for building or for development, and says that this makes it possible to increase the value of land and thus to intransparably finance their tasks or increase their budgets. In doing so, we must point out that the Government forgets that municipalities invest their own resources in spatial acts, that municipalities invest their own resources in municipal furniture of building plots, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia does not invest in municipal equipment of building land or the euro. So what a perverse view, the government’s position on this law! To those who have cultivated the value of land, one of these costs is condemned to even untransparently fund their budgets, a fund of agricultural land that does not invest completely nothing can sell it peacefully on the market and generate very high revenues from this title. Equally worrying is the position of the Government in changing the ownership of building land, which comes from state ownership of the municipalities, according to our proposal. The government rather transferred the building land by decision to the consulting and management company. This company was created at the end of the Slovenian Development Company and at the end of the Restructuring and Privatisation Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. And what does this consulting and management company do? We can see that the Ministry of the Interior and the General Police Administration is funding a EUR 50 million facility. We find that the consulting and management company [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] purchases a facility for the Ministry of Education and Sport, which will be leased to him for EUR 25 million. [[...]] Here too, the government apparently cares only for its own pocket and is not interested in the congregation. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you do not listen to the Government's opinion, on the basis of which the committees have also drawn up their views not to support this bill, but rather that the National Assembly support this amendment and follow it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the living needs of the municipalities. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for the introduction of the position to the proposal of the home working body and to the legislative proposal sent to the parliamentary procedure by the group of Members. Mag. Signa Lavrich, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u100	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A group of Members with first-signed Mr Webro has tabled in the procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public funds following a reduced procedure. We know what the proponents are proposing that the building plots, the agricultural land that has been granted the status of the building land with changes in municipal social plans, and the land that companies have brought into the Development Fund in the ownership processes, are transferred to the municipalities at the expense of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund. On behalf of the Government, I can say that the Government considers that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. And we, on the part of the Government, propose that the status of these lands be regulated by a law governing the transfer of jurisdiction to the provinces. I would also like to say that the Law on Public Funds does not govern the functioning of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests at all, since the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests is established by a specific law and acts as a public institution. No The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests is covered by the Public Funds Act only by a transitional provision which is not systematically included in this law. The proposer complements this already mentioned precedent with the transfer of built-up buildings to the costs of the fund and not more municipalities, which would mean that the municipalities, which so far have only set aside money for the costs of partitioning and will then transfer it to the buyers, will receive a refund twice. In 2007, the Fund plans to sell buildings worth €3 million.755,633. If the National Assembly so decides upon the adoption of the Fund's financial plan, these funds shall be transferred to the State budget. This money, as proposed by Members of Parliament, would only belong to the elected municipalities, in particular the municipalities. Therefore, for all these reasons, the Government cannot agree with the proposed arrangement whereby the municipalities, by modifying their spatial acts, would change the destination of land to building land and thus acquire the right to state land, whose value, by changing destination, is increasing rapidly. At the same time, the municipalities would have passed all the costs of the plot and transfers to the country and would have charged them to land buyers. I would also like to point out that the provisions on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in the Public Funds Act do not belong at all. The Government considers that the proposed amendments to this Law on Public Funds cannot be adopted without at the same time interfering with the Law on Agricultural Land Funds and Forests and the Law on the transfer of the powers of the Privatisation Agency to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Development. As already mentioned, the Government is preparing a proposal for an appropriate transfer of the powers of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to the municipal and provincial levels. For all these reasons, the Government considers that the proposal is not a suitable basis for further consideration and therefore suggests that the National Assembly does not adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. However, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u102	Good day, Presidents, Members and Representatives of the Government! In the New Slovenia Group, I will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public funds is not suitable for further consideration. Such a determination was also adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and also by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. However, in our parliamentary group, we are aware that the primary or most important task or responsibility of each congregation is to carry out or have a place. The congregation decides, and it is also what it will do with the space in this congregation. It will decide which land it will use for housing, what it will use for a small economy or economy, what for green areas and recreation. Of course, it shall be decided and adopted in accordance with the applicable legislation, regulations and procedures. In the discussions that took place when the proposed amendments and amendments to the law were considered, the view was clearly drawn up that the proposal was not acceptable for a number of reasons which we also agree with in the New Slovenia Group. As far as the costs of the plots are concerned, the current law is imposed on those municipalities which have an interest in acquiring the building area. We believe that these costs are not so great that the municipality would not be able to manage them, as the municipality also acquires land for similar purposes from other private parties, and also in these cases, the ordinary municipality covers the costs of the plotion because it maintains the Government’s argument that the municipality can include these costs when the buildings are sold to potential investors. Second thing, the transfer of walled building plots. Here, however, we are asked which land the applicant has actually targeted, since according to the Fund's representatives there is almost no fund. This is about individual farms that he owns, but otherwise he does not have or do not have many of the building’s buildings. The main argument to support the proposed decision in the New Slovenia Group is that, with the proposed provincial legislation, both walled and non-walled buildings are transferred to municipalities to transfer agricultural land to the provinces. At this very moment, we see no reason to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The current Law on Public Funds provides for the transfer to municipalities of all burdens and to the costs of the municipalities in which they lie. The proposed amendments to the law, which is a group of Members, are proposed in the sense that the cost of payment for the distribution of parcels would be borne by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and not by the municipality. In the SLS Group, we believe that the cost of a plot for municipalities should not be a problem, as it can be accounted for in the case of a plot and possible subsequent sale of land in the sale price of land. It is also in the interest of the municipalities. Thus we do not see the real reason for adopting the proposed amendment of the law. An even more important reason not to support the novel is that a package of provincial legislation also changes the rules on jurisdiction and property of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. This will move to the provincial and municipal levels. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will therefore not support the proposed law and we will vote in favour of the decision of the Home Committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I'll say that even those who might be looking at us and listening to them understand. We absolutely oppose the negative decision in the Slovenian National Party, so that the law is not appropriate. Of course he's suitable. Why is he suitable? You come to my house, to my yard, and you start doing something. And you do, and after you have finished this work, you take my land and say, "This is mine now." And then you wait for the earth to rest, and then my land, and all that you have done on my earth, you have sold me five times. That's it. Typical example of the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine. The Trbovlje-Breeder mine the government is closing down. It has its reasons, rather to give social transfers to people than to let people continue to work. But this mine Trbovlje-Breeder is in Trbovlje and Hrastnik and it is our land, trebovlje, municipal. And all these degraded areas, which have been destroyed in 200 years, are "accepted". "Accepts" the state to the Fund of Agricultural Lands, czech, and this is yours now. And the fund is now waiting for the land to calm down and within five years the fund will either sell this land to me or to the mayor of Trbovlje. That's it. Therefore, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you do not want to adopt this law. You hang everything in the congregations. You're talking about regionalization, which has not been determined at all. You hang everything from the congregation. Give it to the congregation, give it to the congregation, give it to the congregation, and you steal what you have. Literally. And in five years, they'll come from the Agricultural Lands Fund and they'll say, "Now you've got this land here, but give it to me, I don't know, 500 units of money." That's what you want, so you're against this law. What is wrong with getting the congregation? What is wrong with having a congregation? The congregation must be a good master, for it also has control. Thank God the congregation has land. They say, restructure the economy. Close the mine, restructure it. Oh. K. Where are you going? Yeah, but you can't go there. Why not? Because he owns the fund. Yeah, where the hell should we go in that narrow valley? It's from the fund now. This isn't yours anymore. But if you want, come back in 10 years when the land is flat and then we'll sell it to you dearly. Don't be silly, ladies and gentlemen! Be serious! This law is appropriate and is even more suitable for consideration. By this law, at least give something back to the congregations, what it is. I've been talking about the whole period since 1990. The government has stolen and stolen. And you want to pick it up. That's right. And those in such congregations at home as ours, or mining, need to know that this is true. For 200 years, you destroy, you take, you give the trust, and the fund will sell to us in 15 years. And we're supposed to save 1,000 people where they're going. This law is suitable for further consideration and in the Slovenian National Party we oppose a negative decision that is not appropriate. And take this if you want. So, what are you gonna do about it? I see in degraded areas what's going on. The fund is owned, no one can build the house there, no one can do anything there, but everything is infested, left to themselves and ugly to see. And no one comes here to at least cut down trees to reap, I don't know, grass. Nothing. The fund is the owner and there the berries grow and everything is wild and no one cares about it. But we have people who want to have, I don't know, waste storage, whatever. Or if you want gypsies that are so honest, at least in this case, that they want to have one piece of land where the old irons will be laid down and they won't get it. I say to him, "It's a good thing you came to ask, "Go to the Mine, give you 20,000 square feet." They don't give it to him. "It's not ours, it's from the fund." But the fund, God forbid. But it's all grown up, and it's dirty, and it's ugly. That's it. The congregation will make order, and it will clean up if you adopt such a law, so obviously you will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thanks again for saying that. The proposed law is, in a form, very modest, since the amendments and additions concern only two paragraphs of one Article, namely paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 57 of the Law on Public Funds. However, from a substantive point of view, it is not negligible, as it proposes completely different solutions in relation to the ownership of eligible land as introduced. The basic law provides that the building plots which were built with spatial components of the municipal social plan for the period 1986 to 1990 and with spatial components of the municipal long-term social plan for the period 1986 to 2000 are intended for the construction of buildings and were up to 10.3.1993 social property, and the land that the municipality, by adopting a new spatial implementation act, has become the property of the municipalities in which they lie. The cost of these necessary plots is borne by the congregation. The applicant offers a solution to regulate the ownership of both walled and walled buildings owned by the State and in the management of the fund by making them the property of the municipalities, and the costs of partitioning them to unwalled buildings and agricultural land should be borne by the fund and no longer by the municipality. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed law is not suitable for adoption, as we estimate that it does virtually nothing to save and that it tries to put what the municipalities should do themselves, which they should also have an interest in, is to regulate ownership of these lands, on the shoulders of another. The fact is that land transfer has not been completed for many years, as the Court of Auditors has also pointed out. As a result, it is not possible to accurately assess the land area and, consequently, its value to which the Fund operates. The proposer considers that the municipalities are not interested in the distribution of ownership and that this is a huge financial burden for them. Members of the DeSUS, however, we are convinced that it is the lotion and, as a result, the associated regulated ownership is the interest of the municipality. As a result of the high value of the building land, the municipalities are expected to be interested in the price they achieve today, as the costs of the plotting at the time of the ownership arrangement or in the subsequent sale of the land would not be negligible. Moreover, the possible acceptance of such solutions would no doubt put the congregation in a different position, which had been active and which had regulated it and also borne the costs of these parcels. For this reason, the DeSUS Group will not support the proposed law. It will support all rational efforts to put in place all mechanisms that enable faster elimination of excessive regional disparities. This can be done by the congregations themselves if they actively strive to regulate the land situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you again very much for your word. The basic principle of the law is to mitigate the damage to municipalities because they do not receive part of compensation from State forest concessions and purchase works for state agricultural land, although forest and agricultural land management is very much burdened by local infrastructure. The law will accelerate the transfer of agricultural land from municipalities to the country, as the Court of Auditors finds that the transfer of agricultural land after 12 years is still pending. The proposed amendment will regulate the ownership of walled and unwalled buildings owned by the State and in the management of the fund, making them the property of the municipalities. The cost of plots in the plot, which lies partly in the area of building land and partly in the area of agricultural land, will be borne by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The law will more justly divide the burden of land plotting by accelerating the transfer of agricultural land to the country and building land to the municipalities, thereby improving the development potential of municipalities and improving the efficiency and transparency of the Fund's operations. The law proposes all of this, but the mother labour and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. So everything you'd do is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Comrade Zvonko Černač will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u112	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! A group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Janko Webro, introduced in the legislative procedure amendments to the Law on Public Funds in Work relating to the transfer of unpaved buildings to municipalities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the ambition of proposing this change was to regulate the relations that were brought by the amendment of the law in 2000 in unpaved buildings, where many problems arose in the procedural implementation of this provision. As this amendment is proposed, however, we estimate that it does not solve the problems and complications that it is expected to solve in order not to allow the completion of the transfer of land to the municipalities, but, according to our assessment, would only cause further confusion in this area. If we want to know what we are talking about, I think it is right to read this paper or to say that, after this change, the building plots which were built with the spatial components of the municipal social plan for the period 1986 to 1990 and with the spatial components of the municipal long-term social plan for the period 1986 to 2000 should be designed for the construction of the buildings are said to be built and intended for the construction of this plan, and those that were up to 10.3.1993 social property, and the land that the municipality, with the adoption of a new spatial implementation act, in line with the mandatory republic's starting points, intended for the construction of the buildings, rebuilt by the municipality's new PIA act, should have been transferred to the property of the municipalities. There's no such land. But we understand what the ambition of the proposers was. In practice, a number of cases occurred when a plan covered an area and cut off land that was in one part walled or walled, while in the other part remained as agricultural land. For example, there were cases of a plot of 1,000 square meters and one smaller piece, 100 or 200 square meters, remained out of it. On the basis of the provisions of this Act, a partiality was required. The content itself did not justify it because the costs were higher. There have been complications, a bunch of bureaucratic procedures, unnecessary procedures, and so on. We understand it was ambition. However, as stated in this proposal of the novel, it is not appropriate. With this change, we would not have achieved anything. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we assess the need to support the decision of the home labour body that this law is not suitable for further consideration and to conclude the legislative procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, however, we consider that, in the context of the consideration of provincial legislation, particularly in the context of the consideration of the so-called technical law, these warnings coming from local backgrounds should be taken into account and in the context of the amendments envisaged to allow these procedures to be completed. This means that those lands which are not in the function of agricultural production should be transferred to the municipalities. I think that this is the right way, and we expect that, in the Group of Social Democrats that have tabled this amendment in the procedure, they will actively engage in the adoption of future provincial legislation and, with their contribution and support, will finally allow this part of the process to be completed and that those lands that are not part of the agricultural production function will be transferred to their own local communities and thus will be able to make appropriate further use of them. And for this reason, and for those reasons that I have said before, I think it is appropriate that this legislative procedure should conclude this inappropriate solution at this point, because it would not solve anything and that these ambitions, which the Group of Social Democrats has tried through this novel, I must say, are inconveniently exposed, implemented and exposed in the context of the adoption of this provincial procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan will give the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u114	Good day to all of us not to mention. The Social Democrats' Group not only because the applicant is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Funds Act, which eliminates at least one of the unfair solutions adopted under the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund Act and later by the Public Funds Act, supports this law. Both the first and the second laws are clear evidence that, since its earliest beginnings in our country, since the early 1990s, the interests of the State have always had priority over the interests of the municipalities, whether in the financial, administrative or development field. It is therefore not clear to us in the Group of Social Democrats that both the Committee on Agriculture and the working body concerned and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have declared the draft law inappropriate for further consideration. With the Government's continued claim that the objectives and methods of its policy are completely different from those of its predecessors in the 12 years preceding the three-year rule of this so-called reformist government, it would be expected that the government coalition and thus the majority of the two open-ended working bodies would adopt a proposal to definitively remedy the mistakes and unfair solutions in the legislation adopted by the previous authority. Here I would also comment on the fact that the transfer or revenue of the State budget from the profits of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is, after an unconstitutional mandatory interpretation of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has been adopted, irrelevant. The fact is that the government representatives in this National Assembly should know what the National Assembly, in particular on their proposal, has adopted and that we will not see last year's profits in this budget and even this year's profits in the 2008 budget, because this profit will remain on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. It also seems strange to me that the representative of the Government, as well as the two committees, attributed some profitable purposes to the municipalities, while the fact that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has been collecting 14 years' rents for agricultural land and concession fees for forests which should be the income of municipalities. It is not entirely doubtful that the Fund's strategy was precisely that it did not want to divide the lots of parcels that were in the mercy of the Fund and the municipalities, because they would have lost a significant share of the unjustifiable revenues. However, the culmination of cynicism in the adoption of such a dictatorship under Article 57 of the Public Funds Act 2000 has also ensured that the fund has been burdened even with the costs of the site, and that all the land it is intended to transfer to its own municipalities would be fully burdened. The first, all the burdens that the fund may have placed on these lands, have previously gone to the congregations. And in the past 14 years, the municipalities have lost a lot of money on leases and concessions, and now we don't want to burden them with any of the costs of doing the plot. Where are all those warm advocates of municipal interests that we listened to yesterday on the first battle lines against so-called rich people among the municipalities and hypothetically rich people among the provinces? You have probably forgotten in the consideration of the draft Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Public Funds that, in particular, the smaller and poorer municipalities of prey have been deprived of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and that it would in itself be conditional that the National Assembly unanimously corrects the injustice that has been happening to the municipalities for so long. All Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats are convinced that this amendment of the Law on Public Funds is the only right solution for the elimination of long-standing injustices that take place in municipalities throughout Slovenia, and we will support and vote against the decision of the working body. However, we also propose to all other Members and Members that you carefully consider whether it is true that we are allowing the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, that for fourteen years the incomes belonging to the municipalities have been accrued and that it is not ready to pay even the costs that allow for the fair distribution of property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Firstly, a proposal for a law on the conclusion of the procedures for the recovery of supported acquisitions within the framework of the ordinary procedure. I would like to inform you that we have 4 hours and 20 minutes available for this agenda item. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 14 Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Mr Porcem, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Dr. Sturm, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good day to all present! The Denationalisation Act was adopted at the end of 1991 and announced the completion of the procedures for the return of property in one year - in one year. The administrative authorities and, in a smaller part, the courts should, in accordance with the legal provision within one year of the submission of the complete requirements, return the assets that have been transferred first to the state and then to the social property. After 16 years of adoption of the Denationalisation Act, we find that this has not yet happened completely. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out that the State authorities have acted too slowly in denationalisation cases. In doing so, it called on all state authorities to urgently resolve open matters relating to asset recovery. The first warning was adopted by the Constitutional Court in respect of the U1-107/96 case, which is the year 1996, after these warnings were issued, which were repeated by the Constitutional Court for a number of years. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has warned that it is in the public interest that all procedures for the return of the seized property are completed as soon as possible. The Constitutional Court has pointed out that, due to long-term procedures, the additional high costs incurred by the debtors will have to be compensated for the damage caused by the impossibility of the use of the property. The non-implementation of denationalisation not only threatens the rule of law but also causes significant material damage, as the Constitutional Court notes in the above-mentioned decisions. Material damage is caused for several reasons. The Denationalisation Act, pursuant to Article 72, allows the denationalising beneficiaries to pay their compensation for the inability to use denationalisation assets for a period from the entry into force of the Denationalisation Act to the decision on the application. The case law also acknowledges this on a regular basis. Therefore, by accelerating the completion of denationalisation procedures, budgetary costs would be reduced. Let me also draw attention to the fact that, of course, the decision on whether to return the property to the beneficiaries in nature arises here, either in the form of the Slovenian Indemnity Fund bonds, there is no arbitral decision of the body which decides on it. The request is in the hands of the denationalising beneficiary and under the conditions required by the law, return in nature is an advantage and must also be accepted. Therefore, the administrative authority cannot choose between these two solutions in this respect, but must follow the statement of the beneficiary's will and the legal criteria. The damage is also caused by the property itself, which is the subject of denationalisation procedures, since it is not possible to make appropriate use of these immovable property in economic terms for their economic purpose. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, investment in this property is insufficient due to the irregular later relations. [[...]] Legal traffic in these properties is also not possible, as this traffic explicitly prohibits Article 88 of the Denationalisation Act. In some Slovene municipalities they are in great trouble, because due to unresolved denationalisation procedures with large portions of land, even in urban areas [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] no one can be with them at all. [[...]] The aim of the law is therefore to ensure that recovery procedures are completed as quickly as possible and to remove certain legal obstacles to completion [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u117	Mr. Secretary, your time is up. I am pleased to inform you that you have an additional 30 minutes available in the debate, but at the moment when we come to the general debate. Thank you very much for now. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the 2004 programme, the Slovenian People's Party wrote, inter alia: "It is unacceptable that the process of denationalisation has not been given epilogue until 13 years later. It is therefore understandable that our citizens question the effectiveness of our legal order. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are committed to concluding the process of denationalisation as quickly as possible." Today, we are discussing the proposal for a law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held assets, whose main objective is to complete or accelerate the completion of still open denationalisation procedures after 16 years. We are aware that the process of denationalisation, due to many factors, is very complex and that the frequent change in legislation in this area has led to problems and unreasonablely long-term return procedures. With regard to the duration of the denationalisation procedures, the Constitutional Court has also repeatedly called on the State authorities to conclude the asset recovery cases as soon as possible. The fact is that long-term procedures cause major material damage, but also indirect damage, as the length of the proceedings is very serious to the rule of law. Finally, the State and, of course, all taxpayers contribute to the damages that the State or the State will have to pay on the basis of compensation requirements due to the inability to use assets. The fact that denationalisation has not yet been completed is also causing great damage to purely concrete and everyday matters and projects that are only indirect property in the denationalisation process. Cases are known when large projects, whether private or state, are lagging behind for months or years only because there was an object in an area that was in the process of denationalisation and therefore the cases could not be resolved or continued with the projects put forward. For example, decaying buildings located in regulated urban centres and precisely because they are in the process of denationalisation are not maintained or otherwise cared for. Because of all the problems and long-term procedures in the Group of the People's Party, we welcome the proposed law, the main purpose of which is, as set out in the introductory explanation of the law, to complete the procedures for the return of held assets as quickly as possible and to remove certain legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures. Many inconsistencies have also arisen as a result of frequent changes in denationalisation legislation, which in some cases lead to violations of the principle of equality or, in specific cases, to unconstant solutions. According to the parliamentary group, the proposed law actually simplifies procedures or solves some other open issues. The proposed law also regulates the possibility of entering property rights in the returned property into the land register, regulates the obligation to acquire property rights by the owner of the premises in public interest when it comes to denationalised land and so on. The law also provides for an exceptional legal remedy for the legal proceedings in which the beneficiaries have been rejected and, on the basis of the more clearly regulated provisions of this law, would actually be entitled to complete the procedure in their favour. Such a solution is necessary and good in terms of the principle of equality, but the question arises how many such cases there are and whether opening them again could contribute to actual complications or the completion of procedures for the return of held assets. We therefore believe that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration. In the adoption process, it will be necessary to consider carefully whether the law has any shortcomings that could further complicate the procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca is expected to present the position of the Zares Group. [[She's not here.]] Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u120	Hello! Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! We are talking about a new law that is supposed to solve procedures that have been going on for years at a minimum. That's what you've all said so far. Apparently, according to the Slovenian National Party, in this case the Roman Catholic Church has grown tired of waiting for what it would like to have. But good. The proposaler says that the objects waiting for a decision on denationalisation are failing because no one controls them. Then why don't we adopt rules that would allow or have a mandatory task so that someone could maintain these facilities? Why do we not adopt such a law? And we're back to where we were at the last point. Why don't you give your rights, your options, or your marriages to people to take care of what's ours, which is worth something at that time. The possibilities for applying for denationalisation are also extended to Yugoslav citizens from the past period, to those born in the Republic of Slovenia whose parents were born in the Republic of Slovenia, namely, that the condition of reciprocity should no longer be taken into account as it has been regulated. There's something unclear again. The new law proposes that the court decide on the application within three months of the date on which the law enters into force. I'm just wondering how that's gonna work out, but if in, I don't think we could have arranged this in the 17 years! We can't do it for 17 years. Now we'll be in three months. The point is how this law will protect tenants living in buildings, I also talk about renters of business premises in buildings that are subject to denationalisation. How will this law protect tenants from increasing rents or from selling those who get their apartments back? How does this law ensure the sustainability of the employment relationship? How does this law ensure the safety of tenants? How does it provide real value for investments to tenants within a reasonable period of time? How does it ensure the participation of interested tenants in uncompleted denationalisation procedures? In particular, how should an effective model be envisaged to address the problem of tenants and owners of denationalised business premises and apartments? How does this law adhere to the principle that the Act on Denationalization has been prepared to prevent new injustices from being brought about? I emphasize, new injustices! There is a reasonable suspicion, some even believe that the desire for a speedy conclusion of denationalisation will bring, without fail, new ownership disputes. New disputes will be brought to the fore by Slovenian courts, regardless of the short deadlines provided for by this law. No one has spoken about the fact that, due to the denationalisation and, above all, the restoration of buildings in nature must be evicted. These institutions have created working conditions in long, long years in these areas. But that's not what we're talking about, and we're not gonna hear another word. The government doesn't care about it and it doesn't care. Schools and colleges have to deal with the search for alternative locations, instead of having schools and colleges working on their mission, teaching work. Is that the goal, colleagues and colleagues? Is that the point? According to some calculations, the Roman Catholic Church, in the end, with denationalisation, I am speaking on some calculations, will receive 220 million euro of returned property. More precisely 218 and a half so that no one will take my word for it. Of course, if I were this institution, I'd be in a hurry to get back everything that was supposed to be mine. And that I will manage and serve as soon as possible with objects of denationalisation. And that's exactly what I don't understand: in dealing with the previous point, there's a position here, and in dealing with it, there's a position here. And now let's talk, fellows and colleagues, respectable! Let's have the same standards for everyone, for everyone! Not now, it'll be mine, I'll take it quickly, but the other side is completely different. I mean, look, it's the worst thing for me because you have Slovenians and Slovenians for a little bit that they don't understand what we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [[...]] Don't be like that. In the Slovenian National Party, we cannot agree that in three months we will save what we have not saved in 17 years. We can't! Let's wait! Let's wait 17 years and we'll wait another year or two or three. Speed kills, ladies and gentlemen. I don't mind if it proves ownership of someone, and it belongs to them. But let him prove it. Then we can start looking for each one of our families, where we were, what we were, and what ours is. Let us be honest with ourselves and with others. It's right that the matter is settled, but let's settle for - "Hudiman" I'll say in trumps - let it settle under normal conditions, not after 17 years in three months. Well, fellows! Nice or not - it's true! You can't save what 17 years didn't save in three months. And then someone will come and say, yes, because this is the fault of that former power. And he would come out of that former power, and he would say, and now this power is to blame. But it's not about power, it's about Slovenians and Slovenians, our friends, our fellow citizens, and they all have the same rights. Whether he has a green, white, red or black jacket, no matter what. "Acception," once again, has one mistake, the letter "h" in between. But that's it. Capitalism lasted 400 years in England. 400 years. Are we going to do everything in 17 years? It's not working. We can't, ladies and gentlemen. You can laugh, you can say, you have a chance, so it's democracy, thank God, say your position, your opinion. Nobody's "disputing" property, if it's actually proven, nobody. But as it will be proven, 17 we couldn't, and now we'll have it in three months with one marriage! Who in this marriage thinks of the people who elected us, me and you to the National Assembly? Nobody. We have a command to carry out, and we have to do it. I don't mind, I say it in person again, Bogdan Barovich, if someone proves that something is his property and receives it. But it's not possible to solve things in three months. It's not working! It's true, in 1991, the story began, it was supposed to end in one year, and it didn't end in the 17th. And it will not be in three months, because it will cause new and new and new conflicts. As you know, people are all the same: with the "money", the old saying, it all ends. No more love. But that's not how it works. We can't just take what we've been thinking about in three months, which is 17 years, stressing for the seventh time, we're not. Let's be honest, let's be smart. If we are so honest that we admit that private property with all the evidence is possible and, of course, thank God that people get it back, thank God. Be fair enough to say the right thing, but let's go by law, by law, by law, by reason of reason and by law. To say that something is failing because this denationalisation has not been carried out is little, as we spoke before. Ownership, agricultural -- just the organ we talked about before, and he just leaves it, just that it's mine. Just that it's mine, let it grow slaves, let it be a piggy, but only that it's mine. It's not working! Leave it, let's regulate the regulations first so that these objects that are questioned are regulated or regulated. And anyone who's there is a good master, and it doesn't matter whether he's in SDS or he's in LDS, or wherever he is, let him take care of it. However, we regulate the legislation once normally, but not once again, ladies and gentlemen, not to say anything for 17 years, but now in three months. These three months are problematic. I know it's will, I know it's desire and I know it's greed too, but greed never and never brought it far. Maybe he saved a year, two, three some countries, and then he brought greed to the funeral. I respect the will and the desire to settle the matter definitively, once again I say that it settles definitively, but ladies and gentlemen, let's be smart, not in three months! After 17 years in three months! He can't go, he can't go, he can't go. This is the position of the Slovenian National Party. We can't and we won't and we won't support this marriage. We won't! Because within three months, you know, we won't even know where we are by the time we begin to preside over the EU. You've all signed papers so you won't dictate to the government, except for the Slovenian National Party - "sad to the government", I speak in quotations. Which means, some of you care about Slovenia and the Slovenians, just to "furnish" what we have to "furgle" by December, then leave us until June, July, peace, what we will do, then we don't care, because the elections will be. That's not true! Until the last day, we are "ambassadors and Members" elected by the voice of the people, people and them, but not by the interests of one or the other, in this case not by the interest of the Roman Catholic Church, which I respect - a blessing to him who believes - but not by getting everything within three months. Blessed is he who believes! Okay. With all due respect, not that way. And be honest and let's all look into each other's eyes. This is not the case and it will not work, at least as far as Slovenian national parties are concerned! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Mitja Ljubeljšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to put into the legislative procedure the proposal for a law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held assets, which eliminates the legal uncertainty and shortcomings so far, and thus gives the legal basis to conclude as quickly as possible, to remove certain legal obstacles to the completion of proceedings and to ensure the right to decide within a reasonable time frame, stressing that the spread of the beneficiary circle must not be achieved, nor should the emergence of new obligations and no public financial costs. In all these years after the independence, the issue of repossessing property was also one of the resounding and forced political themes for such and different debates in the public, in the media, in pre-election campaigns and so on. In the debates and records, there was a lot of political populism, opposition without arguments, there were flat-rate personal assessments, with the sole aim of resisting the return of supported assets. However, it was also consciously forgotten that, in the context of this issue, there is a multitude of injured persons who, due to unconstitutional legislation, the lack of consistency between the responsible institutions and authorities, the unanimity of judicial practice, the slowness of judicial proceedings, and so on, do not acquire their rights or their unlawfully confiscated property. Cases arising, for example, from the dissolution of a former common country and resulting in the acquisition of other nationalities, the loss of the right to denationalisation due to political criminal judgments, the return of a multi-family house in which, for example, one or more tenants, tenants or even owners, the return of a reconstructed facility to the public benefit, the return of land on which a public road or other public facility is built, and so on, the problems of existing denationalisation procedures that are difficult or even insurmountable without the completion of existing legal bases. We have also faced these problems and the pressures of the beneficiaries in our parliamentary group, both on the basis of written requests and complaints and their direct presentations in the Group. It would be a criminal and unfair thing to blame for such an obvious problem only by the government's past and the legislative branch of the authorities, who were probably trying to run the procedures within the planned deadlines and end them. It is indisputable, however, that in all this time no addition to legislation has been adopted in a timely manner to remedy the obstacles and shortcomings mentioned above. Today, however, we have finally completed legislation with the proposed law in the first, general reading. As early as 1991, the Denationalisation Act was passed, which unrealistically predicted the completion of the proceedings within one year of the submission of the complete claims of the injured party. The Constitutional Court has also repeatedly drawn attention to too slow procedures in denationalisation cases and called on the State authorities to solve open cases expeditiously. It also pointed out that there is a delay in high costs for debtors who must or will still have to compensate for the inability to use property owners. By its decisions, the Constitutional Court sought to expedite denationalisation procedures by repealing the individual provisions of the Denationalisation Act or by its explanations affecting the substantive decision of the competent authorities. On the basis of these provisions of the Constitutional Court, the law has also been amended and amended several times. In addition to the Denationalisation Act, restitution of property is also taking place on the basis of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, by returning seized property in criminal proceedings which were completed by 31.12.1958. Many of these proceedings are still in progress, often taking place at the same time as the administrative and judicial proceedings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that this duality, in all other legal shortcomings, hampers the effective completion of denationalisation procedures. The proposal for a new law contains provisions which, on a legal basis, regulate the regulation of both existing laws and at the same time include legal solutions and additions that have not been made to the law so far. Let me just list some of the main solutions. Persons born in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and born in the same area also their parents and are, as a rule, Slovenian nationalities, and later moved to the territory of the former republics for various reasons and now have the nationality of one of the countries of the former country, shall be recognised as beneficiaries. Deadlines for the completion of proceedings at all stages of the decision-making procedure shall be introduced, legal possibilities for the entry of returned property or the entry of ownership rights into the land book shall be regulated. It is specified that public road operators must acquire ownership rights or start a decommissioning procedure where, without legal basis, public roads have been built on land subject to return. Provisions on reciprocity have been drawn up. An exceptional legal remedy for the renewal of the legal process and other solutions and supplements is laid down. Therefore, as a result of the lack of legal basis so far, there are long judicial proceedings that have negative, in particular, cost implications for both the beneficiaries and the debtors, and especially for the State. The costs of these procedures covered by the State budget are very high. Many procedures have been ongoing since 1991 and are still not legally completed. The State's liability for infringement of the right to a trial within a reasonable period shall also be exercised on a number of occasions. Beneficiaries may impose compensation for the inability to use denationalisation assets and so on. All of this requires the adoption of the proposed law by means of solutions that will speed up the completion of procedures, which is in the interests of both beneficiaries and countries. The Constitutional Court notes and points out that incomplete denationalisation not only endangers the rule of law but also causes significant material damage. On the basis of all of this, we will support the adoption of the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group in further consideration and will also support possible additions and improvements to the proposed provisions that will be made in the constructive debate in further procedures. After today's first reading, we will also support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will give the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary! In the Social Democrats' Group, we will not support the proposal for a law on the completion of asset recovery procedures. There are many reasons, many too many, to be able to make them appear in a shorter introduction, so I will mention only the most important. The government argues that the law will not create new material obligations for the budget and other public funds of the State. The claim that these obligations will not be due to the law does not hold up any serious assessment and is only a political structure of the proposer who wants to reduce the importance and consequences of the proposed law in this way. As the law establishes new rights, it establishes new beneficiaries, which have not been made available so far, it also provides for some new legal remedies to be included in the resolution, it accelerates proceedings before the courts and administrative authorities, which will require additional budgetary resources in the short term. The new obligations will therefore already be made on this basis and the applicant does not wish to present them. Second. The law is based on the assumption that the reason that a certain scope of cases is not yet resolved is that unemployment and lack of commitment of administrative and judicial authorities and that, therefore, with the "institution" deadline set by law, the reasons for delays and all matters will be resolved for their final resolution. This is an inaccurate and unrealistic assumption based on the proposaler's belief that only the maliciousness of the authorities so far is the reason that the denationalisation procedures have not been fully resolved long ago. However, since this assumption is not accurate, it is an important reason for a slow resolution in a bad marriage as well, in many of its additions and constitutional judicatures, which have had to be clarified again and again and again, and unfortunately also extended the rights, the source of the applicant will have significant consequences in practice. The judicial and especially more politically dependent administrative workers will logically understand the content of the solutions in the law as a hint and a guidance that the Government from now on expects them to have an important deadline and a definitive solution to the matter, not its content and legal correctness. And it is sad that they will, in general, be right, because in all their actions so far, the proposer represents such a policy. And since the whole system of denationalisation is designed so that only the beneficiary is practically able to object and appeal, the solution will also become definitive if it is not justified. It is important for the Government to be in favour of the beneficiaries, even if the country is needlessly harmed. Therefore, the behaviour of the debtors is changed, all generally returns in nature, even though there would be grounds to object to recovery in nature, especially because the assets are carried out for the State and the companies of beneficial activities, public services, a non-critical assessment of the investment during the period from denationalisation and to return and also compensation for the non-use of the returned property. So far, we have only warned political parties, especially the Social Democrats, and we have heard criticism that we are not telling the truth. For the government claimed that returning to nature was cheaper immediately for the country. However, the Ombudsman, who is supposed to protect the interests of the State and who has the right to act in this case, has a right of representation and appeal only on the basis of express powers of the ministries, acting in their political interests, not in order to protect the interests of the State, which is particularly true in the return of property to the Roman Catholic Church and to the descendants of the owners who left Slovenia after the end of World War II. And talking about marriage having no material consequences is really a fat lie and a misdirection. This is also particularly true in the light of the opinion of the State defence, which I mentioned earlier, which in its last report points out that the return procedures in nature are generally more difficult, generally more complex, related to claims for compensation for inability to use and therefore, as a rule, burden the State more than compensation. It would be good for the Government to read these findings from the Ombudsman and also remember that it will not mislead the public that such procedures are more favourable for the State. In particular, the Advocate General points out that it is therefore necessary to assess the financial consequences of such a decision in full before withdrawing the objection to the inability to return property in nature, which is now uncritically forced by this Government and definitively legislating it. I'm just wondering if the government will do that because it hasn't done so far. This time, therefore, there is no political position, but the expert opinion of the responsible institution of the State and the proposer, the Government, if it were the interests of the State and not the political objectives, should take this into account, not ignore such views. And by adopting this law, ignoring such views will become not only a government policy, but also a government policy. We cannot agree with such a policy by the Social Democrats. We are convinced that it is detrimental to the interests of the State, and we will not support it. For we do not have to agree that the political objectives are detrimental to the state and to all its citizens and citizens. What the church and political thinkers have not received back so far will, according to the new law, be obtained by means of a swift procedure, uncritically and repeatedly without the actual legal basis. And that's the purpose of this law that hides itself. This is what citizens and citizens need to know when they find out why the country does not have the resources for more important tasks. Once the State has also returned its assets to the Church and its political thinkers by means of this Act, this law, the law on denationalisation, the enforcement of criminal sanctions on the correction of wrongs and other laws on the return of property, as well as judgments on the abolition of post-war sentences, regardless of the reasons, the Government will at the same time claim, in other cases, that the justifiable correction of the wrongs also arising from or from II. World War II or the conduct of Slovenia after its independence cannot be remedied because it has no resources. Such an obvious case is, for example, the recovery of material damage to injured persons II. World War II. The basis for reparation is indisputable, II. World War II, also recognized by the government. The amount of the damage and the damage is known, but the state rejects the solution with the excuse that there is no means to do so. Equally unacceptable is the treatment of the State of tenants in denationalised and domestic housing, which was caused by the already independent Slovenia, the Demos government in 1991. There's no money to undo these injustices, either. Neither is the money for honest pensions to Slovenian citizens who have worked in other republics of the former common country, and the Republic of Slovenia does not recognise that our standard and that our prices are unacceptable to the amount of pensions that these Slovenians and Slovenians, our citizens, receive from other republics. There is also no means and will to compensate for the unacceptable increase in the price of living needs. The president of the country even says that we live better than ever because they look at whole loaf of bread from trash cans. At the same time, the state, especially the justice ministry, is going to correct the injustices and wants to ensure rights where they are not directly needed! Finally, that there will be no misunderstandings, the proposaler advocates the consistent and immediate enforcement of the law, which is, once again, true to the refugees in Europe. No country in transition has adopted such a denationalisation law to recover all assets seized, preferably in nature and with compensation for the inability to use. Even the rich Germans said in their explanation that the return of all property in nature would cause too much economic damage and that the payment of compensation in full would be contrary to the principle of the social state. Therefore, it would be possible to talk about the inadmissibility of the proposed law, especially when compared with the Property Law. After that, all citizens and citizens obtained certificates only for a small part of the value of the assets they had been creating for decades, and this was later largely evaluated. It is right that, even if it is simplified and briefly, all of this is said. If there were any justice, this government would not only take care of part of its political thinkers, but of the whole country and of all citizens and citizens. But since he does not, and because he treats people in a very different way, it is right to say so. If we cannot provide just solutions, at least we want to help open our eyes to voters and voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u126	Dear Mr. Minister, Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The country is about people and not people because of the state. This was said by someone who died 90 years ago and did a lot of good for these people and, of course, indirectly for the country, back then. He also happened to be a member of a community that we hear a lot about today - or not by chance, I don't know. If we type the word "denationalisation" in the web browser, they are in second place among found websites containing keywords such as: denationalisation is not yet completed, long-term denationalisation, too slow denationalisation. The Denationalisation Act, which was adopted in the year of independence, pretentiously announced that full applications for the return of held assets would be resolved within a year. Despite the fact that the denationalisation issues have been dealt with as a priority in recent times, we are at a 15-year backlog, as all claims have not yet been resolved. For such a long process, there must be several reasons. In denationalisation matters, there are many possibilities of complaints, or there are many preliminary issues to be resolved, either with regard to citizenship or with regard to various official valuations, which are also often opposed. Last but not least, the Constitutional Court has also pointed out by resorting to the law on the slow resolution of applications with a number of decisions. Long-term costs, both for the country and for the beneficiaries, are high. No one invests in objects subject to claims precisely because of the irregular situation and does not renew them, so they fail unabsorbedly. Among them are cultural monuments such as Križanka and the Kostanjevica complex, which are still waiting for a solution to ownership. If it is not known who owns it, the spatial and economic development of the places and the management of real estate and buildings is disabled. I hoped that we were united, even though I heard today that obviously we did not, that procedures should be brought to an end as soon as possible. This was also a priority set by the current coalition after 12 years of different governments that did not have this priority. That's probably the kind of backlog from here. The government has tried to bring matters to an end through various measures, but the targeted administrative units and ministries have not fully complied with the guidelines. Thus, the report on the state of follow-up to the denationalisation cases of June this year shows that the largest backlogs are at the Ministry of Culture and that the number of outstanding cases is at the forefront of the administrative unit of Ljubljana. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that all ministries and all authorities that have different mechanisms to increase efficiency must work towards achieving the goal. We hope that the law on the completion of the recovery procedures that we are considering today will speed up and complete the procedure for the recovery of held assets. The fundamental principle of the law is to prevent inconsistencies in the conduct of procedures, which has often occurred in the past. The possibility of resolving cases, both under the law on denationalisation and under the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, has sometimes led to different solutions but not in accordance with the principle of legal certainty. The bill provides in two articles for beneficiaries who have so far been unable to submit applications, but after the Ministry has assured them there will be no expansion of the circle of beneficiaries or the emergence of new obligations - even if. The state has to correct the injustices, that's its basic duty. In the New Slovenia Group, it seems very important to us the content of Article 4 of the bill, which sets the deadlines for procedures. The deadlines are set because apparently the authorities have not taken seriously the provisions to lead denationalisation procedures as a priority. The Court will be bound to decide on the application at first instance within three months of the date on which that law enters into force. The same period will also apply to decisions on all regular and extraordinary remedies. The Administrative and Supreme Court shall be bound by even shorter deadlines, 30 days to decide on the application and to decide on the appeal or review of the Court of First Instance. In addition to other important innovations, the law imposes public benefit on facility managers, such as public roads, municipal infrastructure, to acquire such land within six months of the application of this law, if the buildings were built on land subject to return procedures. Operators may conclude a sales contract, a land transfer contract or initiate a decommissioning procedure. Although only about 5% of the demands remain unresolved, these are procedures that have been going on for a very long time because of their complexity. It has already been mentioned that there is considerable material damage and more and more indemnity requirements for incapacity or the inability to use real estate during the period from the implementation of the denationalisation law to the return of beneficiaries, which brings high costs to the state budget. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the competent authorities will have to make considerable efforts to start the proceedings. In the past, the resolution of the denationalisation procedures has been suppressed on the side track. In addition to the complexity already mentioned, the reasons for some of today’s presentations are also of a political nature. Guilts that were after II. the world’s committed contrary to all civilisation standards must be corrected as soon as possible and the right reparations must be made to all the victims. Finally, all I would say is that I think the basic principle of the rule of law is the principle of justice. And I think this law is written exclusively in this function. As I said in the introduction, the country is for the people and not for the people of the country, so we are committed to finally correcting the injustices that have been committed. Guilts can be rectified under certain conditions that are known, and of course this matter is not being done in mind, as it was possible to conclude from some debates today. At the same time, I find and also ask the President that somehow there will be a debate within the framework of the law before us, and in view of his usual consistency in the debate, he will also make sure that we do not also deal with pensions and other matters which do not fall within this law. In the end, I would like only one remark for fellow Members and Members. The ones you just need to either because of political marketing or because of your personal conviction "beat" through the Roman Catholic Church - I understand that we are in democracy, and I am glad that everyone can say what they think. That is why I will now tell myself what I think you are aware that, by definition, the Roman Catholic Church is a community of believers, including some Members. And these believers are far more than those who are operationally in charge. That's why you have to be aware when you talk about it or when you're "beating" after this institution, you're "beating" after us. You have to realize that we don't always care if it's meant to be. We certainly do not want to prevent you from speaking freely, but only so much for your knowledge. I would like, even as one of those who care about one of the cultural monuments, 300 people care about one small church, in which a lot of voluntary contributions and time must be invested and so on, and serving people, serving the community, is not easy to listen to such a footnote and such an obvious. So I would ask you when you say that you are aware that this property you are talking about and the numbers you're talking about are not measurable because this property is priceless for Slovenia, I'm sure, so all the numbers you're talking about are too small. But I'd like to ask you to really be aware of this effect. Of course, New Slovenia will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much. During the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups, we missed Ambassador Majdo Shirco because, at the moment she was supposed to be on her way, she was coming through the door. I therefore give her the floor to present the Group's position as the last. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thanks for understanding. Let the injustices be done, my forerunner said, but I say not to do new injustices. In the Group of Members, we do know that it is true that it should be and that it would be good for denationalisation to be completed. 16 years on a 50-year base, someone would say, is too much. But it is important to know that it is not a matter of simple cases, that it is not a matter of simple questions. The former government was aware of this, and the former government knew that it should have completed these procedures by now, but it was no match for them. How complicated they are and how many open questions the 1991 solution and all the rest of them later left, we are aware today. But I say, although we all want denationalisation cases to be completed as soon as possible, I can say that not at all. Cases are too complicated to be completed quickly and come to solutions that are not consistent, or even force the courts to jump, act under pressure, and not cover all the facts that are necessary in such cases, and that they may even commit injustices in such cases. Certainly also those previously dealt with under a different procedure, but now others will be treated according to other rules. True, they are once too long, but short procedures do not excuse this haste. The rest are the toughest nuts of denationalisation, and we would like to strike with force right now. The hardest nuts are forests, cultural monuments, public-owned agricultural land and the like. In short, the principle should be applied slowly. It is not right, and we all know that it does not make sense for decisions to be swift, but we think that it makes sense that decisions are righteous. Fast justice, which is the principle of this law, can turn into a swift injustice. We understand the desire to see this denationalizing flamethrower happen as soon as possible. Another year is time, but let me present the concerns of Zares, why perhaps even good wishes can be pressured, those who are pressured by good wishes bring inappropriate or criminal results. In short, I repeat: in the Group of Members, we really support all the legitimate, reputable, efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which can contribute to the completion of the denationalisation procedures in full, as this is a process that burdens ownership relations and also real estate management. In our opinion, however, the drafters of the new legislation did not take into account the real problems of Slovenian denationalisation. And we know that my predecessors have already stressed that the law adopted at the end of 1991 has been amended several times, and the Constitutional Court has also influenced and further complicated the situation by decisions and repeals of individual articles. The complexity of outstanding matters is understandable, as the Denationalisation Act in several articles could not resolve all those relations that took place for 50 years. Some other countries have done so, perhaps today they are sorry for their haste, and yet the minister has stressed himself and we also read in the material that quite some progress has been made. This is why we are particularly surprised by the urgency and compulsion of you, Mr Minister, that progress in resolving administrative disputes in the Supreme Court as well as in the Administrative Court, when you have taken certain measures to speed up the resolution of denationalisation cases, has been fruit. In this case, the Administrative Court, the District Courts, is particularly commendable, we know that the proportion of legal cases completed at this stage is 92.3%, and there is a 95.6% share of legal cases at national level in relation to all applications submitted. In fact, there are now somewhat more than 900 outstanding cases in administrative units, except in administrative units, but we know that, at the first stage, we need to decide primarily the Ministry of Culture, Environment and Space and Finance, where the 101 cases are listed. The ministries, as second-degree appeals bodies, have a total of 77 denationalisation cases pending, but there is not much at the same time, given the fact that we know that these are the tiniest nuts. We certainly agree with the proposaler at the place where he says that certain legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures need to be removed, but we are concerned about the broader objective of the law, which points to the right purpose of the applicants, namely to some type of extortion of quick and therefore of inquality decisions and thus to satisfy the benefit of individual denationalisation beneficiaries in the account of the emergence of new obligations of the debtors, in particular the State, which means that the law will cause budgetary and public financial costs. At the same time, we are concerned that at the competent ministry, changes have been prepared very quietly, without more responses and public discussion, which means that these solutions will further deepen all the problems we are facing. This process of completing denationalisation will not speed up, but this law, as I have already said, will legitimize some kind of violence and limit the already entangled processes and material rights of the State. The law also introduces deadlines for the conclusion of judicial proceedings, although denationalisation procedures are being conducted as a priority, which means that courts will be forced to judge on the basis of the principle of rapid justice. With this, there can be a rush to prove substantive justice, which means that in no way will the law contribute to respect for the constitutional principle of the rule of law; and this should be taken care of. I understand you have a lot to say, ladies and gentlemen, but the rule of law is not to be overheared, is it? We must be aware that denationalisation is not only a legal process, but a process that should be committed to the principle of justice, because it cannot be corrected by one at the expense of creating new injustices or harming others. And the injustice that happens best illustrates the case, if I mention it quickly, the case, remember all of the Nazarje Forest Economy, against which the liquidation process was initiated. I refer to the example of a complicated denationalisation and possibly unfair procedure, where the company was unable to obtain part of the forests that were returned to Ljubljana's archdiocese in the denationalisation process, and at that time the work of 137 workers was lost, and the liquidation of the company was precisely because the archdiocese failed to reach an appropriate agreement on the work of the forests that are now in its possession. Let us also remember that the Nazkofija Ljubljana offered all forms of possible cooperation, including the fact that the Nazorje Gospodně economy, which operates with the forests, entered as a co-owner and the diocese, did not agree with this, because then the Nazor Economy wanted revenge and thus, according to Nazkofija, never attempted to speed up the process of denationalisation. In short, we know of this injustice, we know of many others, and we are aware that among the larger projects, the government of Janez Janša on the table is just another unfinished chapter, a chapter of denationalisation that can be triggered in this direction, that certain procedures can be dealt with by force, quickly and, as has already been said, could create an unequal situation compared to another. For example, remember what procedure or case that was vulnerable to many people occurred in Maribor at the time when the Government with the compensation of the Moroccan archdiocese, for example, discreetly approved the return of the Moroccan archdiocese during the first government visit to Podravje in 2005, when it signed a contract to return to the nature of the buildings on the Vrbanska road, where three schools are now home, says the agricultural college, the secondary agricultural school and the secondary school for agricultural mechanisms, despite the fact that the return of the facilities in nature has compromised the functioning of several public institutions. In short, that's when the government decided to return to nature. At that time, it was also necessary for taxpayers to provide replacement facilities worth 10 billion tolars. In addition, it adopted a decision on the reimbursement of almost two billion tolls of damage to the Roman Catholic Church, since the Maribor archdiocese has been unable to use the secondary school building for the last 15 years during this period of denationalisation. In short, it appears from the data of the Ministry of Finance that the monetary compensation that was there was very high and exceeded reasonable limits. And that is why we can say that this is an eccentric case of extra-budgetary financing of the Roman Catholic Church. In short, we are surprised that the Ministry and Government are committed to such solutions so that in as many cases the return in nature will take place quickly. We know that among many open cases there is a very pressing problem of returning a claim in the Triglav National Park area, where there are huge hectares of land. We know that there are many other cases where we fear that new injustices will occur as a result of this haste, the speedy resolution and the hurrying of procedures, where we fear that the intentions are very clear and that some will come by skipping to what should be resolved in such a way as was being resolved elsewhere. Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, of course, I also wanted to inform you that we cannot support such a short-term marriage in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u129	Comrade Jerovšek, I think you've been going too far lately. If anyone has a fever, keep it to yourself. Besides, if you'll excuse me, you've just come to work, and I think it's almost a six-hour delay, and since then, I think you've already told all your colleagues what you did this afternoon and night, but let me do it outside. Here is Parliament, a parliamentary session, dealing with laws, and not only are you disturbing the representative of the Zares Group, but you are extremely rude and uncultivated, at least this is how you last made your point. You're continuing your work right now, so please stop it. Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Before that, I inform you that a colleague of Ruda Veršnik, who is on the list following the speaker Bogdan Barovic, has fallen out of the list of people who have been reported wrongly. But the first one has the word of a Member Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Of course, I expect comments from Members and Members, which are of professional stamina, and I would like us to also somehow give up ideological omens, but above all, we are looking at property, returning property as a democratic standard. So, I expect from this law the application of democratic standards. One of the fundamental principles of democratic standards is property, freedom and responsibility. And if we build on these things, then we're not afraid of the future. Therefore, it is totally pointless to ask questions, such as, to whom and not to whom. For example, on behalf of the National Party Group, it was said that it was necessary to ask who they would give or not. If it turns out that someone owns it, I don't care as a citizen whether he's left, right, whether it's the Roman Catholic Church, whether it's a former pre-war political party or anyone. If we are applying these standards of equality, then we must also apply them in this area. And there is no dilemma here, so let us just smile before the world public, or I can say so, even before the European public and before the European Court. Indeed, all those who obstructed the procedures for repossessing property made the impression that they were working for the welfare of the State, the welfare of the taxpayers. But what happens in the end is that they worked to the detriment of citizens, taxpayers. Because this property will definitely be returned, if proven, not only on the basis of the laws of the Republic of Slovenia but also of the European Court of Justice, and they are also entitled to compensation. So, double the burden. And that's why the question is why we're in such a hurry. I wonder why we haven't done this in 17 years. Should we then wait a hundred years for the burden on taxpayers to be significantly greater? Please do not impose this burden on us as taxpayers and do not postpone the obligation to the owners for a later period. Property needs to be respected. Even these cases show how it is with tenants and tenants. See, rent, so much as to make it clear to us, the owner's rent is used if, of course, he gives it to someone for rent, to maintain value, to maintain, current and, of course, to restore them in the long term. For property, if it is not renewed, then it goes according to the principle of entropy into nothing. And so these examples of how these workers lost their jobs may at first seem unfair, but they definitely mean that someone will have to carry out this maintenance in the forest. If they're not these workers, then there'll be some other workers who'll have to do it. However, if they did not have something to do, such a society is definitely doomed to failure because it will not be able to operate. And this is a fundamental principle, and such cases are therefore not relevant for the argument of all these matters. So it's the same criteria for everyone. It certainly does not apply to speeding slowly and speed killing. In legal slang and in the legal field, this does not apply. In the legal field and in the field of rights, another sentence applies: the right to be transferred is denied. And we can talk about this criterion, not too fast. So should the beneficiaries wait another 50 or 100 years? The same criteria for everyone. This is what citizens expect, whether it is a legal person or a natural person, if they show their ownership. There is no reason for this not to come back: not legal, not moral, not any other. But that's actually essential what we should have in mind. The law's headed this way. And in this direction I also support him as a Member, because I would like Slovenia, as far as these standards are concerned, to be in that round of comparable European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Procedurally, please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u132	Mr President-in-Office. Before you crossed the limits of what was allowed, you were unrefined, even though you told me which call I was, which is a classic institute of European Parliamentarianism, I said. And you said I came to Parliament and to work six hours late. I've already spoken here this morning, and you were gone. And if your subconscious broke out of you and you had a bad conscience that you weren't there to "spray" this parliamentary session, then do it yourself. And I told my colleague Majda she was talking hot because she was saying unacceptable things. And she spoke to me in writing at the time when she once spoke in Parliament that Grossman, the author of the first Slovenian film, is Prlek and that Ljutomer is the centre of Prekmurje and she replied that as an excuse I should accept that she spoke with heat. I'm guessing she talked to the heat here, too. Thank you very much. But you should apologize for making such an obvious point that I didn't come to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u133	I must say, it took you quite some time to react. Secondly, I do not believe that you are in a position to assess: who speaks unacceptable things, whether it be for colleague Shirca or anyone else. We continue the debate. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues, colleagues! If someone says that the law that we are considering today is intended or is in the interest of only one category of people, then it is either ignorance or conscious deception. And since someone who has a high education said that, I don't believe it's ignorance, but it's actually a deception. The fact is that the law is intended for all categories of people, all those who qualify for this law to make the return of held property possible, regardless of who it happened to, as an individual or as an institution. And speaking so frivolously and so manipulatively that it is only one category covered by this law is actually a great manipulation, which is probably also the purpose. Interestingly, for more than 15 years some have been trying to prevent the implementation of the law on denationalisation, as well as the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, where this is also the basis for the return of property seized this time. It is also interesting that in the initial phase of the denationalisation law, many of these major critics have taken very good care of themselves and their immediate family members and have in fact taken care of themselves in one year, as the law had predicted and committed to returning the property, they have received it, and then they have prevented it from selfish inclinations for all others and have advocated never to fully enforce the law. That's amazing. I know many of these worst critics who have taken care of themselves and their closest family members. However, given that, under the law on denationalisation and also under the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, all the obligations imposed by both laws have not yet been fulfilled, it certainly seems right for me to do everything as a legislator to correct the wrongs committed in the past. I think that this is natural, and this should be the goal of all of us, so that we can also solve all the problems that still exist, either because of the legislation itself or because of too much of the implementation of the laws, but also, of course, to prevent further damage. This is produced both in the country and in other legal or natural persons, because the property that is the subject of the various return procedures is not active and therefore may fail, whether it falls or cannot be fertilized in any way or otherwise, which is also the cause of damage. All these problems suggest that, even in the legislative field, we look for all possible ways to finally complete the procedures for the return of held property. This is our moral duty to all beneficiaries, who so far have not been able to realise due to many legal or bureaucratic obstacles to their entitlements to the return of their property. The costs that have been incurred by many long-term return procedures and continue to arise and accumulate and burden both beneficiaries and debtors, as well as the country, all of this also suggests that this traumatic issue, which has burdened citizens of Slovenia for so many years, is finally solved. I therefore welcome the proposed law, as I will support and welcome all other possible rules and measures that will contribute to the same solution as the law under consideration today. I hope that, in the process ahead and in the debate, we will draw up such a content of the law that will make it as effective as possible for the purpose pursued by the law to be fully achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go. You're giving up. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Chairman. The distinguished representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. When I listened carefully to the representatives of the parties and the views you presented, I find it difficult to understand, I have a different belief, and personally, it is the property of the sanctuary. This means something that Members could at least respect and appreciate in this house, no matter whose house it is. It doesn't matter at all. This is something that's untouchable, because in fact, the law that was adopted at the time, I think, in 1991, was just what it was. It may not have been easy for all to say that the likely one was not ideally involved in the contents at the time, but, nevertheless, the purpose was good and clear, to bring back what was once unfairly taken back, whether it was one’s owner or another. It doesn't matter to anyone. I think it's high time we ended this story after 16 years. And I believe that what is said in the title of the bill is "the conclusion of the proceedings", but it is true; that we will end this thing in this independent, democratic country. And finally those beneficiaries who are still alive, for many of these happinesses will not wait or wait for it, get back what has been taken away from them in this way. I think that, after all, even for the rule of law, it is imperative for every democratic society to do so until the end. But I agree with those who say: let us not cause new injustices. I hope that there have not been too many injustices, but with this law that we now have on the table and with which we want to speed it up and simplify it, but we reach the goal, because this game is taking too long. But 16 years is too long, so we need to get to the finish line. And I believe that today's bill on the conclusion of this procedure gives me hope, especially for many who are still waiting in line to get back the assets that were once taken from them. During that time, there must have been new damage, both state and beneficiary, and not least much indirect and direct damage. Believe me, because many of the objects that have been waiting for an active master in these years have failed and show not only a bad reputation for the place, the streets, the market, but they are becoming dangerous. Therefore, it is a recent time for an active master to get them back so that he can manage them economically as a owner, as a good master, and make such and different new content out of these facilities. On the basis of everything that has been said, I believe that this law will receive the support of the National Assembly, as wide as possible, I would like to, and that this thing that our predecessors, the parliamentarians before us, have adopted in good faith, we too will finish at this time as proposed. Correcting injustices from the past, I think it is our task, our duty and also our responsibility. With regard to the principle of speedy slowness, I think it's already said enough that we've been running slowly for 16 years and that it's time to get to the end. To take into account the legislative framework set by the Parliament at the time, and also to conclude in the time and procedure envisaged, which, according to my assessment, is acceptable and gives hope that this will come to an end and that the game will be finally over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Greed may be a great sin, but this government has decided to do this last stupid thing today and tomorrow, the final fulfillment of its pre-election promises to the RCC. Today we will accept this, in the 17 years that everything could not come back - we will resolve it within three months until the new year. It's like the boat's going down. But now I can really see that the boat is going down, the boat is sinking, and the first rats are already leaving it. However, before it finally sinks, it is necessary to be so consistent with one institution or with some people that these final promises still need to be fulfilled. First, we'll do it today, second classmates and colleagues, tomorrow. The RCC at all times of our lives. There were quite a few speeches about denationalization in the Styrian area, where I come from. It has already been mentioned Vrbanski plata, we know that in these institutions there is also the Agricultural Institute Maribor as one special institution with 90 people employed who will be thrown into the road by this stupid denationalisation. They have nowhere to go, but the state doesn't want to provide them with a new location like it doesn't matter. He doesn't want to. Why don't you just say that someone's being wronged or someone else's? The Maribor Regional Museum is one such option - the same. But why don't you talk about injustice here, and you talk about correcting injustice, and I don't know what all of it is? Not here. Like it's none of your business! Betnava is a chapter for himself, there is even an adrenaline park, for which every Mariborian needs to see this adrenaline park together with his child, pay either for the black version of adrenaline or for the green 5-15 euros. Not 3 euros, as much as it costs a movie or 6, as it costs a football game; from 5 to 15 euros. I didn't pay for it myself, but my colleagues told me that even if I didn't jump one gentleman into a black dress, he'd scare you to the end, you'd forget about the 15 euros you gave at the beginning, but you're afraid of adrenaline. But, of course, when you run or walk, you listen to religious songs about the white goddess, and I don't know who else. It's marketing. That's the greed I'm talking about. We have returned the forest to feed at the expense of this forest today an institution that we are not supposed to talk about today. Although we know that he is far from the greatest denationalisation beneficiary of your beliefs in this country. But I'm not supposed to be told about her today! But this institution is powered and fed on this account. She'll be powering up through school now. And there are also these cases. Not long ago, when we discussed in this House, you remember T2. Whose T2 is it? Who offers you three channels of pornographic content for 34 euros a month, as much as they advertise their price? T2. And who owns T2? This same institution that we're supposed to be talking about here today that we're not supposed to talk about and that's not greedy. This is also part of your denationalization, and within three months, as this law foresees, you will return everything, to your nose, which is justified and which is not. All alive, only to return to fulfill your promises, then the ark, "at least down" or downhill. Mr Barovic already said in his performance: to pick up what was left, the second year when the elections were held, maybe a new team, who in fact will have nothing left to pick up and will really work for the good of this country. And today I can tell you that I really hope that you will not be on this boat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you, too. However, Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There's no minister. The problem is in fact, and this problem is being faced by local communities when they want to make their investments, and because of denationalisation procedures they are not actually able to do so. Even any building is located in cities that need to be restored must also be demolished, but this is not possible because denationalisation is taking place. I have heard in this debate today, and this is what I am most concerned about, defending this proposal for a law that property must be returned, no matter who. That is exactly what this law will actually make possible. But let me say that for denationalising beneficiaries I am not really afraid, even now that they have a government or we have a government that is very fond of denationalisation, very inclined to correct the injustices of the past, back, now that these injustices are happening, much less think. As I am not afraid for these modern-day rich people, who will, of course, form the most powerful layers of Slovenia, along with those who acquire great wealth. When we talk and discuss the denationalisation law on change, it is not possible to avoid the issue of the Church, according to today's debate. And here I object to all those who make an equation between believers and the Church as an institution. And it didn't grow on my cornea, and that's explained to me by people who go to rituals that are faithful and so also finance this church in some way, and they have concerns about denationalization, about acquisition of property. I'm not going to talk about the forests that are changing property now, about our former forests. In doing so, I will only point out that domestic Slovenian forestry workers are coming forward, reminding them of the problems they are encountering, and reminding them of what is now happening in these Slovenian forests. And less and less "forested natives", one of the Slovenian songs could be summed up. The basic error is in the basic law, which has in fact established an excessive return on property in nature and excessive compensation for the non-use of that property. The reason, in addition to what I have said about non-supporting this law, is more, including illogicality. New beneficiaries will be able to submit applications and no additional costs will be - "Lari Fari". The role of the Ombudsman - he will only intervene on the proposal of the express powers of the competent minister or minister. The story is quite clear when I look at these ministers and their activities in these three years. To shorten time - it is not only in time, the problem is whether return is justified or beneficiaries meet the conditions; the question of how individuals or institutions have acquired this property is probably blasphemous and does not belong to this law. The question of who will pay for this is too much, but because we know exactly who will pay it - citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, a few generations ahead, all those who pay or pay taxes in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Member Michael Prevc has the floor. But to my word, I invite the Ambassador, Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I can't help feeling that this law is also written under the principle of "a la carte". Therefore, due to the fact that it is particularly appropriate to certain specific entities, to those entities favoured by that authority and therefore wishes to facilitate the procedures for the exercise of their actual or imagined entitlements. Especially in the laws that come from the Ministry of Justice, experience has taught us that it is always necessary to ask what or who is behind. Let me remind you that in adopting the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, I also had a strange feeling that it was in the back not intended to prepare a court to annul the judgment against Bishop Rozman and certain other specific cases of this type. The feeling was real, that's clear today. Well, according to the reaction of the President of the Government, that law was, however, flawed, because it did not at the same time establish a more appropriate timing for when the Supreme Court should issue such a judgment and when it should not. Although I have always believed that the Government of Demos or Slovenia of all post-socialist countries has chosen to be the least appropriate and most harmful principle of the return of property, today I advocate the view that denationalisation must be completed as soon as possible, that the final owners of this property should be determined as soon as possible, and that further financial consequences should be avoided for the State and taxpayers. In terms of the enforcement of the rule of law, legal certainty and confidence in law, however, it is questionable whether certain conditions of a substantive nature can also be changed before the end of this process. All of this also raises questions about the principle of equality before the law. For example, so far, the beneficiaries of denationalisation have been compensated for the impossibility of exploiting held assets, and from now on, they should not be entitled to this compensation. I think that's very questionable. The proposer ensures that this law will also be fairer to persons who were Yugoslav citizens at the time of their stay, and now they are only nationals of another country from which the former SFRJ was born. Now this circle of beneficiaries extends also to those born in the territory of Slovenia and are generally of Slovenian nationality and later moved to the areas of the former republics of the SFRJ for various reasons. I'm not sure that's a fair solution. I am not even sure that such a solution is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Someone could have been born elsewhere, but his property in Slovenia was maintained, someone could have been born in Slovenia, and no Slovenian nationality, and he was supported with real estate in Slovenia, etc. By the way, I propose that the proposer also read more precisely Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution, where there is talk about equality before the law or human rights and mention that birth, nationality are those categories that count here. The upcoming novelty instructs the courts and administrative authorities to close the cases in extremely short time and to deal with them as a matter of priority. In recent times, we have often witnessed the laws imposing priority on the courts to deal with cases. Yes, it seems remarkable, but what will happen to the many unresolved cases that have been waiting too long to be resolved within a reasonable time? And since I said at the outset that it is always necessary to pay attention to what or who is behind me, I think the rabbit is stuck in Articles 2, 3 and 10. In these articles we encounter concepts such as "born in Slovenia", "Slovenian Nationalities", "no matter the condition of reciprocity", "when proceedings are under way under the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions", etc. The persons referred to in Articles 2, 3 and 10 of the following Article 11 shall be given the possibility of being wrongly reinstated in a legally terminated procedure. So interesting, only the beneficiaries, not the debtor. I hope that it is clear to us that the reopening of legal procedures does not contribute to the early conclusion of denationalisation. And there's one more thing. Some of these concepts somehow do not "constitute" in the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. And somewhere in the end, you know, the European Court of Justice is in Strasbourg. Let us not be surprised if any of these matters will end up in Strasbourg. Your Honor! I am afraid that the timing of the adoption of this law and the content of this law will not be enjoyed by many. Whether they are faithful or not. I am convinced that this proposal is unacceptable and that I will not be able to support it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! We're talking denationalization. What is that, anyway? If you ask an old European, an American, a Japanese, he won't have much connection to what denationalisation is. For a simple reason, because it's a consequence and they don't know the reasons, because they don't know the nationalization and that's the problem. No nationalisation that happened after II. World War II in our country, even today we wouldn't be talking about denationalisation. And I think it was really a shame that at that time what was happening was that nationalisations were happening, that we still have to talk about denationalisation in 2007. The fact is, we don't want to save what's been going on for 17 years in three months, but it didn't work out, because this thing doesn't last 17 years, but 60 years and something else, about that. And now, for God's sake, it's probably time to forget about these traumas, to solve this matter that's burdening us, to throw away this backpack that we keep wearing, and some people pull it when it seems right for them to revive the cultural struggle. Otherwise, I just can't explain it anymore. It is true, as some of you have said, that in some European countries capitalism has been built for several hundred years, but we would now like this, I don't know, in 17 years, so that would be fast now. But this is also not the best argument, because Slovenia, as a country, was not created until 1991, it was a kind of dictatorship, because this was the way I was taught in school, in 1991 as a country on the path of democracy, and in 17 years it built a country that respected a country. When some other countries crossed the road for 100, 200 or 300 years, Slovenia became an EU member in 2004, some other EU Member States worked hard for 20 years and more. After six years of intensive approximation, we achieved EU membership and took over the euro after three years. Some Member States have not yet taken it because they do not want it, others cannot, and we have intensified it and it has been very successful. And the fact is that we've been on some page for the past 50 years, generally speaking - everything of course was not bad, and I have to say that - but in general it was awkward. Today it would be right to conclude with all that weighs us down, which somehow burdens us, which also burdens future generations, if we do not finish it and remember only what is good - there was a lot of it. And why we still have to deal with this denationalisation today, which we haven't completed in 17 years, other countries where they had nationalisation have already done it - either way successfully, less successfully, but they have done it. This backpack was dumped and no longer split after what was 60 and 70 years ago. And it would be time for us to forget about it, too, and to deal more with how it's going to go. But without that backpack, if we don't throw it away, we're gonna have it on our backs all the time, and that's gonna be a constant burden on us, so it's really time to end it. But as for greed, which we have heard of today, I am not quite sure of him; the greed of those who were once owners of certain properties, we cannot tell them, they were taken away, they were taken away. Moreover, greed may be enjoyed by those who have illegally acquired the right to use their property or legal property, but they have not contributed anything. Maybe it's nothing. They were gifted, they could control it, they could control it, but it wasn't their property. But I do believe that if they've gained any benefit from having to give it up in one way or another now, it's hard to give it up. And now to say, it is an injustice that he will no longer have any right over what was never his nor his parents, again, is a great problem. It is therefore necessary to conclude this once. And it is very important to me - or most sadly - that this property has been taken away from humans or that injustice has been done to humans because they were the owners of some property, because to those who did not have the property, this injustice has not happened to them. And these people, many of these people, at least I know such families, their remains are lying on Tezne today, in Teharje or in one of the 400 towns around where some 10,000 Slovenes are buried. There are also babies who were innocent, only that they were alive on the day that it happened. And this was only because they were, say, parents or those personally owners of a beautiful house, factory, forest, big estate or something like that that was worth taking away. These are the facts. And that still burdens us, and we should really end this as soon as possible, end it, forget about these traumas. The fact that we still have to burden ourselves with this in 2007 is really superfluous and unproductive, but without ending it, if we don't finish it now, we're going to drag it out again, I don't know, one year, two years, five years - if we're going to hurry slowly. But I think we should have rushed long enough to finish. And I think we need to compare ourselves with Europe. It is also a little less appropriate sometimes, but it is also a European standard that we do not do business anymore in 2007, or at least not intensively or at least not legally, with legal frameworks, with things that have burdened us and have happened, and in 2007 they continue to burden us and continue to separate us. Let's just listen to today's debate about how we sort of split up here completely needlessly. If this topic were resolved, we would not be discussing this today and would be dealing with anything else that could be the future or, what happened two years ago, not 60 or 70 years ago. I think that would be much more productive. That's why I'm defending this marriage. The content itself was never my favorite theme. But since it still weighs us down, and my children will be burdened by it, it's time to end it. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. I'm not saying that marriage is the best, ideal. If such a law could be done, it would probably have been made by the previous government and by the previous government. But apparently, it's a difficult thing. But I think we are in such a situation today that we can really end this. As for the fear of the great wealth of these denationalising beneficiaries, I think that experience in Slovenia at the moment shows that this is not the case. The richest are those who - as far as I know - received nothing from denationalisation, were not beneficiaries at all, neither they personally nor their parents, but came to this wealth differently. This is again, we can say, some nationalisation, which we did, I don't know, but in the previous government, if I can call it that, but it's a story for other frameworks and other laws. I just wanted to say that denationalisation probably won't bring out the big, the richest. They're already formed, and the biggest rich people who buy and sell businesses today deserve it. That's a different story. There will be no fear of the rich or the rich at the expense of denationalisation. But it is time to conclude that this backpack is to be discarded and not burdened with matters that occurred 70 years ago, and we have not been able to solve them yet. That's all this is about, and that's all I'm going to support this marriage. For the content, I hope that those who have prepared the law have prepared it sufficiently intensively, sufficiently qualitatively and professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, you know, when we talk about denationalization, we have assets in mind, and that property in the first place, which is once again becoming church property. And allow me, those who speak in mind and point to the opposition as to how guilty it is because they hope to talk about the irregularities that are taking place in our society also under this government. Franz Rode said a long time ago that the Church was before World War II, and I'm going to quote it as "too rich." The church had property that was not necessary to fulfill its mission. So, assets that came from the feudal era. You should give up your own possessions and hand them over to the poor. That's what Dr. Franz Rode, years ago. That is why those, you know, who have compared the Church with believers - will be ashamed of you because you want to manipulate, manipulate, and manipulate the wider Slovenian public. Believers are something, and today the Church has become the biggest capitalist in Slovenia. Not only the biggest capitalist, the RCC will be the most powerful civil society in Slovenia after the denationalisation procedures have been completed, also because of this law prepared by Mr Šturm. So much for honesty, so much for equality, or the standards of equality that some of your kind have advocated today. About the standards of equality - let me remind you what is written or what is the purpose of this law. The aim of this Act is also to put an end to the procedures in which beneficiaries, for which of the reasons now clearly regulated in this Act, are said to have failed for new reasons, should be able to initiate an irregular re-establishment of the legally terminated procedure within a short period of time. Don't joke! Where is the standard of equality here, ladies and gentlemen? I would ask you to respect this standard of equality when it is necessary within our country, as well as from European institutions, to fight for Slovenian citizens and citizens of individuals. And I believe that Mr. Sturm also remembers the family of Shelih, the family that lost their son in 1993 due to an alleged medical error. When, because of the effectiveness of our judicial mills, they did not receive a legal judgment at home, but they had to go before the European Court of Human Rights! But also when the European Court said that the state of Slovenia is obliged to pay, and I will say only EUR 9,000 in compensation to this family, the Republic of Slovenia, the State Defence Office, complained again before the European Institute. Where is the moral responsibility of our country, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues? We fell on the entire line for 9,000 euros. Today we are talking, I have information that the Roman Catholic Church should receive more than 200 million euros after the denationalisation procedures have been completed! You compare: 9,000 euros on the one hand - no, this is too much for the family that has been damaged in our system - 200 million euros - and we will give the Roman Catholic Church only from the process of denationalisation. And here I am going to deduct the compensation that the Republic of Slovenia has already paid or will pay. 8.1m euros in compensation for the inability to use denationalisation facilities is just one case. And you know what Secretary Beast said about that? Minister Zver stated that this was only a good deal of EUR 8.1 million in compensation, a good deal because the Roman Catholic Church wanted more. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Don't joke. This law is written on the skin only and only one, if you want, legal person in our country: the Roman Catholic Church. Yes, because you are also paying through this law those promises that were made before the elections or -- I believe that I have had more time tomorrow to talk about another big review of this government, which is specifically called the Youth Book. You know, there's also the Roman Catholic Church as the majority owner. And tomorrow I will show you how the Roman Catholic Church via the Youth Book will be forced into the school fund or in the field of education.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Denationalisation is certainly one of the things that is still important for the development of Slovenia in the future, because the financial obligations arising from denationalisation are indeed enormous and will be even greater under this law. At the same time, it is true that many things in the country are at stake because denationalisation is not yet complete. However, it must also be said that denationalisation is not over because we are the only country that has adopted such a comprehensive law and such a comprehensive way of returning property, of course in nature, if it is not in nature, then with compensation. However, if it has also been restored in nature, compensation for the non-use of this property must also be paid. This is an abnormal burden on public finances and this public finances is supposed to be primarily in the State budget, and it is interesting how the Government hopes to be enshrined in the objectives and principles of this proposal in order to complete the recovery procedures as quickly as possible for the assets held and seized, without the expansion of the circle of beneficiaries and not even the emergence of new liabilities for the debtors, in particular the State. So the country really thinks only of itself, seemingly speaking of the country represented by the Government. This is the opinion of the Government or the proposer is the Government of this law. And it is not true what is written in these principles and objectives, which I have also read, because in the articles of the law when you read them, it is very clear that those who have already completed the denationalisation procedure will be able to re-apply within three months for a new procedure and thus for new rights. If they file an application for this burden on the beneficiary, I believe they will not do so. If they apply for additional compensation or additional property, they will do so. So in the objectives and principles, Mr Minister, what is enshrined in this law is indeed not true, and it is a great deception of the Slovenian public, and in particular the deception of all those who contribute to public finances, so that these compensations can then be paid. Now, if we are also talking about the property of the Roman Catholic Church, it must also be said that there is also a lot of property and also a lot of business carried out by this institution, untaxed, and even if we were to return to the public financial structure of the state budget, then one might somehow understand that we are going to pay more attention, because we will also get something into the budget from this title. But it's not like that! However, I would like to draw attention to the following fact. It is sad that the proposer, this is the Government, does not record that there will be additional public funding burdens on the municipalities as well. Congregations are also those who will pay compensation for the non-use of property during that period until this property has been returned. Let me just illustrate the example of rentals in business premises, for example, where the beneficiary can literally calculate how much he owns for the period when the property has not been returned to him, and the municipality has to literally calculate it for him. We will now extend this round of beneficiaries and there will be more of these requests. This law also states that, within six months, the municipalities must redeem all those lands that have not yet been set up by property did not become the owner, which is, for example, under public roads, under public institutions owned by the municipality, and within six months will have to conclude contracts with beneficiaries and pay them this contractual value which will be calculated. I believe that these contractual values will not be small either, rather higher than lower, and the congregation will, in fact, be in just some impossible situation to negotiate this price at all, but a price will be offered, please choose, so much so that the municipality will have to pay. I also understand that that beneficiary requires such a payment and that this is in accordance with these standards, but I understand much more difficult to write down in this law that the beneficiary may be entitled to replacement land only when the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has delivered to the Court a complete list of parcels with which it manages. We have already talked about this today, and once again, when the 2006 Report on the Monitoring Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands, I hope that even soon on the agenda, we will find that the Fund does not have complete records. The Fund for Agricultural Lands does not have complete records and cannot provide a complete list of the parcels it has at its disposal. Therefore, it will not be possible to resolve certain matters in a way that provides replacement land because the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia does not have complete records. And that is what all those who write this law know very well from the minister and all those who participated in writing this bill. However, if we try to take one euro from this Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, there is actually panic in this House, especially on the government side, but what will happen now. And what exactly is this fund? The fund was indeed set up to carry out denationalisation as soon as possible. Whether it is in the interests of the fund to do so is a key question. The administrative units were not the ones that were supposed to block these procedures, the biggest problems were with the Agricultural Land Fund, which has been under the right-hand side almost all the time since this fund was established. And throwing up guilt on someone else, on someone else, or on someone else, or on someone else, let's just say that we're not in favour of ending the process of denationalisation, too, is far from the truth. The Fund for Agricultural Lands is a practical example of non-compliance. And the fact is that the municipalities do not receive from this fund concessions in state forests or the euro. This is the only concession in this country that is concluded in a way that does not belong to the congregation even the euro. And it belongs to her by law, by constitution, by all regulations, but there is simply no law to change in order to bring about this change. In fact, why does the Government have no interest in making this change, so that even with the Fund of Agricultural Lands, the municipalities can receive part of these concessions or concession compensations, as well as part of the leases for state agricultural land for a simple reason: 10% of these revenues generated by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests are allocated to the Slovenian Compensation Society, which then also pays certain amounts and procedures for beneficiaries to receive funds from the Slovenian Compensation Society as well. If, of course, 30, 40, 50% of concessions and leases belonged to the municipality, of course, the Slovenian Compensation Society would also have fewer assets because it receives as much as the fund actually does, that is, 10% of what it creates by its contracts which it just concluded in this account. And here I return for a moment to the fact that the Government should write down the objectives and plans of this law, if it is already misleading the public, that public burdens should not arise in particular in the country, it should also be written that there should not be a burden on the municipalities. But not only does he not want to be aware of this, he rejects all the solutions that would enable the congregations to come to a source where they can pay off the loss of funds that the beneficiaries will require. The municipalities of this source are not available, and the State has it on behalf of the Agricultural Land Fund. And I think that's really one of the big problems that it's impossible to solve in this way, as it is written here, that we're now going to be in three months, which we're going to finish. No, far from it, my dears! This law will significantly extend and delay proceedings, end in court, and, of course, this justification in the courts will not simply be concluded after simple proceedings. But it will be even worse if these courts are actually pressured to complete these procedures, whether everything is legally clean or not. And if the minister in the introduction of the presentation of this law spoke of the issue of legal certainty - yes, this law reopens a very large issue of legal certainty in our country, as long as it is adopted. And I think that we really should not accept it in such a form and rather ask ourselves whether we should not end denationalisation in a way: to find out that we have come to this point by procedure, to find that some are real or indecisive and do not solve them in a way that returns in nature, to assess how much compensation is being made to this beneficiary, and to give ourselves a hand tomorrow, and to go apart. But, no! Let's go another way, so we can actually put more burden on the state budget, even more burden on the municipal budgets, and someone will still say that this was all for free. I really don't understand such interpretations and to avoid such interpretations and such deceptions it is really difficult to support such a law and I expect that this law will in fact not be supported because it does not bring any smart ones but, above all, not legally pure solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sure this marriage has flaws that I won't support. I will not support it because it is known that, in unresolved cases of property, the return of held property, that this delay in solutions is due to generally unfounded claims, to contentious claims, to unproven entitlements and to rush here means that there will be serious errors, failures and, of course, abuse. And in this sense, the law is written on the skin of those who wish to receive it but are not justified, and therefore it is not possible to support it. It is also within this law that there is a hidden desire and intent to return to those who are not even nearly entitled to the return of their property. In doing so, I think of foreign citizens, in particular Austrian foreign citizens, who have already received too much back or everything they have received should not be, and it will be necessary to look at who has signed and who has approved the refund to Austrian citizens whose assets were left to the former Yugoslavia and, of course, to the Republic of Slovenia at the expense of war damage. These citizens should receive their entitlements from the Austrian State. Some have done so, some probably not, some have missed the deadline set by the Austrian State. And they're supposed to give me my assets now generously. In an interview, the Foreign Minister stated that 90% of all claims were returned to Austrian citizens, that the solution was positive. Where is the mind of those who claim to have done so? That's illegal! This is contrary to the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, it is to the detriment of our citizens, including those who are during World War II, on whose account this property of Austrian citizens remains to the former country and also to ours! Who thinks of those of our citizens who lost all their assets then moving, some even immovable property, and to this day they have not received a dinar of compensation? We will now generously return to everyone in order, and of course ours are out of the law, out of the possibility of getting some of their property back from this property, which we should not return, but sell and give to our own, that is to say, to the fund for the recovery of war damage to our beneficiaries. We do not do this, it is moving away, Germany owes us over $5 billion - we do not talk about this because we are good people, because we buy good relations with humility and with billions of dollars worth of forgiveness, but we treat our citizens irresponsiblely and leave them to say no, literally in poverty, because after the second war many never got back because they all came, and the state - that is, the present and former authorities have done nothing about this issue. That's why I can't agree with this kind of horror about returning property in three months. Here comes another very serious question, this is a question of judicial backlog. Let's say that the logic is that those who unjustly claim an asset will now be given a quick hand within three months of their solution, and those who wait ten years for their righteous judgment will continue to wait a little further, at the expense of those who will have to be dealt with by the courts as a matter of priority. The order should apply to all citizens there. To many, a judgment that is not handed down is worth more than any property that has not yet been returned, and he will wait even longer for this law. From that point of view, I don't think that's working. Articles 3 also cover the traps that Dr. Breed, and the amendment of this Article shall be such that it provides less precisely for entitlements than the existing law in force. For this reason, this article should be amended and, if no one else does, we will table an appropriate amendment in the sense that the dictates of the law in force will be maintained, not a new one that significantly changes the true purpose. Finally, it should be noted that this law places denationalising beneficiaries in an unequal position. And such laws, which place citizens in an unequal position, are unacceptable to me and cannot therefore be supported. In short, the law is written on the skin of certain impatient claims that do not have a basis, the procedures are long because they are unjustifiable investors for the return of their assets, and this should certainly not be accelerated, although years should last, it is necessary to clear up what is done with these claims and then to bring a just solution in accordance with the law that is already in force, not to amend the law because it will be quickly resolved because things cannot be done quickly enough. More mistakes and, of course, more abuses can be made in quick action. From this point of view, the marriage is bad and I certainly will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When I took this marriage into my hands, I read it, of course, I said to myself, "Well, I knew it would end the way it started with revolutionary law." In 1945 and beyond, in a revolutionary way, revolutionary law was taken away and taken away from anyone could be taken in the name of some social justice and so on. And today in 2007 we are going back in the same way that it was taken, revolutionary. And if, in this National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, there are times when a speech about the past takes place and when it is accused of who is the bearer of continuity under the previous regime or not, then I must say that if anyone represents the continuity of revolutionary law, this Government and you, Mr Minister with such law, represent him. The fact is that, of course, denationalisation, as was the case with us, is a major and serious problem, an unfortunate problem. Actually, the term is wrong. It's not about denationalisation, but it's basically about the restorative. And this is the proposed amendment to the law, the law on the completion of the restorative. A law that wants to return ownership to 1945, without taking into account that since 1945 what has happened has happened in one way or another, and that the ownership relationship has changed at that time and so on. If you wanted, I'd say, a law like this that no state has - I know the German system a little bit better, there's a system that's clear, more than you've taken, less back, relative to the sum or the sum that they took from you or the objects and, of course, not in nature. And today they claim that they were even too broad-minded. The fact is, if we were to go along this path also property as democratic rights and standards, will you be restoring and you should already have all the mortgages on the land and facilities that were then given. Why isn't that, why isn't there a recovery of these mortgages? Why is property not returned and restored in 1945 in a country that has survived and has lived for 60 years, why is this not done in this way? I am sure that it is not possible to go forward in the past with such a law and with such a solution, and this law is actually the logic of everything that has happened now, his, I would say, dramatic, I would even say, sarcastic completion and conclusion. And in that sense, it's not a coincidence that he's here. I have talked about this myself, I have participated many times, of course I have returned this property in my function and I remember a conversation in 1991, 1992, immediately after the adoption of this law. I think some respected liberal politician from England asked me what kind of marriage we had adopted, and I explained to him all this, and that we would return back to nature, and he was very surprised. He wondered: How in nature do you think you can return this in nature after 60 years and so on. What if what was taken in nature no longer exists in the form in which it was taken, and the property legal and valuable changes this - how will you return it in nature? And he said to me, "Very simply, look, he said, 'dennationalization is like a natural disaster. Anyone who owns property knows this can happen. And everyone knows if it happens, and when it's fixed, you'll get something back, but never." And according to this logic, all other laws on denationalisation are made, except Slovenian. And I think this law has been blocking us in development for 15 years, in the way it's done, and in the way it's going to end. And even today we will not know, and that is the problem, at that time the field that was taken became a road and then became a public road. And you have paragraphs 7 and 8 which I'm going to amend in the second reading just to point out how to say, in an incredible way, you could say, the irony and sarcasm of these solutions that are in here -- the incredible madness of this article that I'm going to be amending in a special way. Here's what I'd like to say. Many of this property, which has been returned, has long since been where it was. That's right. The world is changing. I know firsthand that it is part of the financial assets that have been returned and was created into financial assets, disappeared and blew up in the wake of the Argentine financial crisis. It's okay, it just happens. As for T2, contrary to my colleague Zagorec, I would like to assess and commend the investor behind whom the largest Slovenian church stands to invest so bravely in T2. And since I'm getting to know telecommunications a little better, I think it's gonna be a little too little if we add two more porn programs to save this investment, because that's such a strong resource. This may also reflect this denationalisation hunger that still exists. I believe that some articles are such that they really arouse my fear and lift my hair. I would say, well, Article 7 is something like that that literally turns the country back into 1945. Can we do that? Let's give it a try! I don't know if it's possible that we're all, I'd say, 60 years older - I wouldn't be here yet! Can you do that? And make sure it doesn't happen and then you bring it back. I don't understand how you're going to put a public asset back in your possession if the congregation can't make a deal with someone who doesn't own it yet. The community's gonna have to buy it off someone who doesn't own it yet. And if she doesn't do it to me, she'll do nothing to me, you'll get nothing from this beneficiary and the way and the property back and forth. Article 8, which is short, is great. I will add an amendment here: If it receives back the walled land within the meaning of this provision of Article 8, if it receives back the building on this facility must be demolished within three months. If it legalises it, the State must deduct, not the State, from the municipal budget the increase generated at the price between the non-walled and walled building land. I'm already predicting an amendment. These amendments are nonsense, but nonsense, which will point to the nonsense of these provisions of this Article. I'm really asking you if that's the way it's supposed to be done. I admit, the embarrassment of denationalisation, the denationalization law, as it is, and I tell you this firsthand, I have conducted procedures - not me, but in the service I have led - and I know that, as the English say, in certain provisions, the English would say "selfdefifying" - is self-destructive. This is because it encounters so many specific situations of persons, circumstances, unregulated situations, which deviate from reality, that it blocks itself. And instead of making simple marriages then, they set up some principle of righteousness that, say, those who lost less, and more of them, returned as much as possible, and those who lost a lot, but few of them, would return a small share, as they did, in Germany or elsewhere, and would have these things resolved today and, as sustainablely as ethically and morally, the situation in this regard. That way we have disputes, conflicts and unresolved problems. I will not support the law at first reading, my word and my voice on the gray button will count nothing, but I am predicting a second reading of the amendments already in order to draw attention to the absurdity of some articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u153	Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! During the period when Slovenia is preparing for the EU Presidency, and within this is dialogue between civilizations and cultures, interfaith dialogue, one colleague here has problems with civilisation standards. Of course, one of the basic civilisational standards has also restored stolen property. Here, too, they spread religious intolerance, by protecting, moaning, sneezing and anything else, not to talk about the culture of dialogue. Some have obvious problems with the knowledge of European Christian-Jewish civilization, are more likely to be attached to the heritage of the Caucasus-Mongolian idol Josip Vasinjorovič and are still fascinated by his solutions, his ideas and stand firm behind his ideas or the ideas of his Crown Prince Kardel. I must say that it is obvious that they have not been touched by the civilisational achievements of Europe and that is why we are listening here to such unbearable, so retrograde, so dogmatic statements and turns out. But they also come from species where their beneficiaries, who came in contact with revolutionary authorities through marriage and all of this, took care of them and themselves as soon as they were in power. The first were denationalisation cases resolved when these denationalising beneficiaries were resolved, which were in strong contact with your clients. When we have taken care of ourselves - it is your philosophy - then it is necessary to prevent further resolution of this on the basis of civilisational standards. Look, I have to say that all these arguments you're making about the return of forests are unjustifiable to anyone. At that time, you stuttered as if the forests would be taken away, that at the moment everyone would be cut down, that the naked and now - lady, you from Primorska, and I better know about the forests, because I've cut a lot of them on my own farm - now the forests are significantly better, it's started to dominate, and the price of the wood has fallen considerably, because before the forests were managed by the Rise and the Party and were financed by this, and the farmer got nothing. And for example, they paid for biological amortization, but forest economies didn't afforest. In our territory, there used to be bone weeds and there was, in the 1960s of the previous regime, there was a huge increase in bone marrow, which was in the wood mass of weeds, because they didn't fertilize, even though they charged themselves with biological amortisation. I must also say that this kind of talk does not surprise me, or I wonder what "our forests" Mr Kontic used to say: "formerly ours". Whether it is through the fact that the president of the Union of Fighters was either a former party official or another organisation that managed the forests indirectly, because I never spoke of those forests that were not part of our farm. Apparently, he had some connections that all of this was through the "our" party -- those who were partying. Here you also "dispute" the fact that such a law is being realized also makes some mistakes. I agree that some foreign citizens have probably already been paid. This was part of Tito-Kreisky and Tito-Brandt's agreement, but those who are still here at the hands of Tito's diplomats and have direct connections with them, you never said what was in this agreement, where that money went, what was determined, you don't want to show it. And, of course, those foreign citizens today can be happy that former parties are protecting them so that they can re-apply because they know that the Yugoslav part of the money has gone into some strange pockets. No money has been given to these emigrants, although Mr Žnidaršič is now obviously on the side of those who have done wrong and so on. Tell us where that money went from the Tito-Kreisky agreement, which Austrian beneficiaries got so they won't get it again in Slovenia. I agree. You're the only one with the paperwork. You're the one who hid it. [[...]] [[It's a meatball from the bench.]] Your political predecessors and ancestors did this. And that's why I don't accept a lot of this. Mrs Beblereva has also revealed another important thing, and that is why such a debate is good. She also said that the Ministry which drafted this law did not provide for a more appropriate timing when the Supreme Court may issue a judgment in the Rozman case. I will link this to her proposer or the idea leader, Mr Michaelak, who spoke yesterday about Peterlet. Someone skillfully framed him for the theme of the cultural struggle, but it wasn't done by the left. Whoa! Ma'am, Bebler's betrayal was done by the left, of course she did. Speaking of murder in the family, I almost wouldn't doubt who did it, but it all reminds me of jealous murder. It's no coincidence that Rosman got out a few days before the election. I'm not a Marxist, but here's the thing: there's no coincidence. And I must say that the statement, Mr. Micheljak's intrigue is not only characteristic of Marxists, but is on the level of a graduate from the University of Jersey. Of course, Mrs Beblereva is very much involved in the independence of the judiciary. She assumed that it was in court today, even as it was during their rule, that they pressured the judiciary, and I firmly know and hope that it would be the judges who would deny this statement - today some candidates for constitutional judges. I am firmly convinced that this was a planned provocation, but not by those to whom Michael and Bebler were instigating. And, of course, I need to know how it manipulates us in this country, even through the media. It must be said that from the opposition, which sometimes acts as possessed when it comes to denationalizing the acquisition - you object - to the delay in the return of property. It suits you not to solve this problem, it suits you with unfinished processes, because this is part of your political weapon for cultural struggle and for everything else. Today you have cited a number of examples here, and you will do everything you can to prolong this into infinity. Although when the property that was stolen, seized, acquired the right master, these are the masters, and this is now a lot of cases, significantly better hosts and significantly more social to their workers, employees such as the tycoons that you have produced and given them and enabled them to own some Slovenian companies. They didn't steal anything! Much better and significantly more social! And these examples are already mentioned today - for the last time on TV, I saw workers in some forests who said they were significantly better owners than the previous forest economy. The forest economies are not to blame, they were run by the mob and the party. All the income went to these two addresses. This is why you try to convince, try to seduce, manipulate the population, and deal with it in depth. However, recovery is a civil code. And I disagree with your inquisitorial methods of gloomyness. For this reason, it is high time that this year, or in these years, I do not know how many years since the adoption of the law, and that some of the administrative authorities that defend themselves for ideological reasons must also act as civil servants of the State and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Bebler's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll say it anyway, Mr Jerovšek, and since you keep calling me Bebler, I should tell you Jerovšek. About the timing, yeah, I was talking. If I read it correctly and even heard it in a television contribution, the President of the Government choked on the fact that the candidate in the current elections, Mr Peterle, also received fewer votes because the Supreme Court, just before the first round of the elections, had issued a rescinding judgment in the Rozman case. And in view of this, it was understood that the Prime Minister of the Government felt that the timing of the publication of this judgment was not correct. And as you know, the President of the Supreme Court has actually responded very clearly to this claim. And given that we have another round ahead of us, I'm sure the timing of this marriage is also wrong. Because whether people who are supposed to elect Peterlet are faithful or not, many of them disagree with such a process of denationalization. Therefore, I think that the timing of the drafting of this law is wrong, because it may also have a negative impact on the situation of the electorate, who would otherwise be expected to elect Mr Peterlet in the second round. However, when you speak of our political predecessors, Mr Jerovškov, because your boss is also one of these political predecessors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor. Mr. Znidarsich, you have not been quoted. Yeah, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much. So, what I want to say is that Jerovšek is talking about everything, just about the matter on the agenda, no. And in this sense, I am the last of those who can push me, Mr Jerovšek, to the side of those who have done such or other injustices in the past. And that's what we have to say. So you can't use your confusion in the sense that you don't know what we're talking about to insult people with labels that don't belong to them. I was very small at the time when denationalization was carried out. I'm a victim of war violence, my family lost all their assets and two other members because of that war, and in that sense, I don't deserve any such labels. But I was a member of the Communist Union, just like your boss, but I'm proud of it at the time. In fact, I thought that you had to be solidarity, that you had to work more than anyone for the same money, that I paid some membership, that I was never in power, and I didn't know anything about the injustices that that regime did to anyone. I wasn't among them. However, I must say that in my discussions I was critical of the then authorities, unlike many who had been very silent until 1990 and now they are heroes when it is no longer dangerous. So in this sense, I would ask you to abstain from labels that don't belong to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Versnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, all present! How easy it is to take something and how difficult it is to get it back unjustifiably, we can follow it from the end of 1991, when the Denationalisation Act was passed, and until today, when we find that it has not yet been fully recovered after the war unjustifiably seized property. In spite of the law that everyone was supposed to know to read equally, the return of property was largely dependent on the willingness of bureaucrats on administrative units and individual governments or the willingness to implement the law. Of course, it was important to whom it was coming back. I am convinced that those close to the authorities have completed the process of denationalisation as quickly as possible, while the rest of the battle for unjustifiably seized assets are still fighting today. As a result of the return of the war on property, I closely accompanied myself. The first problems started already in an administrative unit where there were insufficient qualified staff. The decision of the administrative unit was first appealed by the returnee - at the first stage, the Ministry's authority. It took a year to answer. The next step was the Administrative Court, where it was necessary to wait more than one year for the decision. This case was returned to the administrative unit and so the case revolved around for 15 years, with one year of appeal being also dealt with in the Supreme Court. Despite the undisputed determination of the current Vad to finally complete this process, the government has decided to send a bill to the parliamentary procedure on the completion of the procedures for the return of the assets. One of the key articles is Article 4 of the novelty, which prescribes substantially shorter time limits for court decisions, from now on the courts will have to decide on the application within three months. The same time limits shall also apply to the decision of the courts in all regular, exceptional legal remedies. The Administrative Court must, in accordance with the proposed amendment of the law, decide within 30 days, constitutionally within 60 days of receipt of the full application for all constitutional complaints. A period of 60 days is also laid down for the process of identifying citizenship. There is also more news in the return of land, where the beneficiary and the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia are required to agree within 60 days, the opposite administrative authority or court chooses the replacement land as a form of compensation. All of this, together with the other innovations brought by the proposal for a law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held property, constitutes a guarantee for the completion of the recovery process, which has been a real shame for the rule of law since independence. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let us not forget that in Europe private property is sacred and we are full members of this community. Isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Drofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! When I was about 16 years younger than today in 1991, that's when my political career begins, if I say so simply. And I know that, as Vice-President of the executive board of the congregation of that time, I have been monitoring the adoption of this legislation and actually thinking about what it will bring. And I remember what the discussions were like today at the time. Maybe a little less, even sharp and twisted some of the things I've been listening to today. I would say that at the time I was actually thinking, but at the same time, the process owned by Markovich's legislation was starting. They were setting up a by-pass company. Through these by-paas companies, almost every CEO of a major trading company had some grosic by-pass company, then it was chained up, and finally big companies were bought through small companies. And at the time I was actually thinking, well, we're probably going to capitalism, and it's necessary that we somehow inherit and dominate those who are more capable. But at the same time, I've been thinking, and then let's at least do this and return what was stolen 45 years ago, taken under revolutionary laws. And in fact, I come from a family that has no problems, nothing was taken from it, and nothing was returned, but I support denationalisation nonetheless. Because I think and I firmly believe that private property is the property that guarantees the management that guarantees that you have some confidence that you're building even more. And the more, the more it gives, the more it gives work. When we watched this, at the same time, I was also four years President of the Denationalisation Commission in that period since 1992. And when we issued our first decisions and complaints came in, after the LDS government's appearance, virtually all the decisions started to fall, the compensation fund didn't work, nothing worked. The first few years were a big problem. And there's probably someone else who's been dealing with this problem. I'd say it's about time we got this legislation or this topic of denationalisation off the table, and I think we'll all be doing better. But I'd say it's been a long, long time since I've felt as uncomfortable as I've felt today. I think that we are unique in Europe, that in every subject, education, denationalisation, whatever the problem is, the problem of the Roman Catholic Church is emerging. I'm not ashamed to admit that I go to church, that I'm a believer. And I have to say that I felt so uncomfortable just in the '60s, '70s, when I finished my studies, and when I was employed as a mechanical engineer, and I was taken to the party every year. At the time, I had to say that I wouldn't go to the party because I was going to church and then he told me how old I was and so on. You know, what I heard today, I have to say, I was sad, even though I'm gonna say this. Look, the Roman Catholic Church has acquired some assets in history. And this property served the public good, the Slovenes, the faithful and the unfaithful. Remember the bishop's institutes, remember the monastic schools, remember a lot of other things. After 45 years, it was gone. Today, when they get it back, we have the bishop's institutions again, we have a high school in Maribor, people of God, because this money goes into a useful thing, without it the institution as a church cannot work. That's why I said we were unique. And I have never heard such an attack by an institution in any European Parliament as it is with us, on every second, third item of the agenda. Let's think back, with school legislation, 80% per 100%, let's think about it a little bit. I may have turned a little away, but it seems to me that after six months of sitting in this House, I admit that today I felt so uncomfortable that I almost feel ashamed to go to church. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor. You can contact us at any time for a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. I really asked for a word, but I'm not communicating substantively, but procedurally. Unfortunately, I was forced to do so. Let me first explain that if the Minister is not in the Chamber, because one of the Members of the Joint List Group mentioned in the debate earlier, the Social Democrats, I apologize, this does not mean that the Minister does not follow this elsewhere. So I followed the discussion for a short time when I was not here or in the field of vision. But now I'm talking about something else. I have been following the debate closely all the time, but the well-respected speaker, who just spoke, was unable to follow closely, because there is a very lively mutual conversation in the Group of Social Democrats, and when I asked the closest, respected Member of Kumra, that, by the way, I said I can't hear, he said he wouldn't listen, because you don't have to listen. I have to say, I'm bitter about it. [[...]] [[a voice from the hall]] You can't protest what happened. [[...]] Yeah. That's what happened. That's what I've heard, that's what you've been dissuading, and you've continued with each other's lively mentioning later, so I couldn't follow up on the implementation of the well-respected forerunner.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u166	If that were true, as now stated by the distinguished Minister, I would apologize. But now I'm asking the Minister to apologize to me for not saying it. But I said out loud when my colleague said that they had nothing nationalized, and they didn't get anything back, and he said, "I'm one of them, but I said, but we had nationalised, and we didn't ask for anything back." That's the only sentence I've said in this context and nothing else. Please, Minister, that in Parliament where my house is, our house, not your house of executive power, excuse me for the insinuation you have just given me. Here in the same place.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Minister, there are no replicas on the replica. But you can sign up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u168	I'm just continuing the debate. It was a loud note, it was the one that bothered me, that prevented me from hearing what the distinguished speaker was saying, so I told you over the bench that I could not follow the debate and what you actually replied to, because you don't need to. I'm just saying what I heard, what I said, and I can't say any more.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u170	If I continue where my colleague, Mr Drofenik, has stopped. No wonder this subject, which also touches the Roman Catholic Church, is so many times in circulation, since there is almost no law that does not touch it. Or the consequences of those laws that were before you were sitting here, of some benevolent Roman Catholic Church. But today we are not talking about who is entitled to what, but we are talking about how and by what procedures we can recognize that someone is entitled to what. And I have to go on, and I have also felt the first period, for example, in the previous decade of the 1990s, many times uncomfortable, or incomprehensible, whether it seemed unfair to me when certain proceedings were taking place and I felt that, although they were sufficient for the legal provisions of the 1991 law on the return of unjustifiably seized property, some internal logic was not sufficient. In the mid-1990s, Minister Peljhan quickly decided that the Church of St. Joseph, in which Viba came home, had returned in nature and it was enough that they were entitled by law, but at the same time she threw herself onto the road of a film that had not come to adequate places for years and years later for film activity to take place within their framework. At that time, not only was the Church of St. Joseph returned, but it was also adapted, which is also, thank God, it happened that we came to Plečnik's altar and that it had been revealed, but at the same time it was given to some crumbling industrial hall in the Strip, for which there was no money left to adapt, until there was a decision to be made and it began to invest in the adaptation of these studies, which, fortunately, are now adapted, but unfortunately they have nothing to do, because the Minister does not carry out cultural policy in the field of film as he should have. If I return to the law in question. What I also wanted to point out at the beginning of the discussion and presentation of the position of the Zares Group is that we are surprised that the Ministry and Government are committed to such solutions, so that in the greatest possible number, the return in nature would take place after a rapid procedure, in short, to skip and time limit certain procedures that have been subjected to a different treatment in these unfortunate 15 years. And there will be an unequal situation here. At the same time, let me point out that there are still some open projects or beneficiaries that are not small and let me repeat - the archdiocese in Ljubljana and the other archdiocese do not yet have the most complex claims solved. And the part of the claim in the Triglav National Park area, covering almost 21,000 hectares of land, is still under way to determine the legal and factual situation on which they will determine compensation, compensation in areas where the archdiocese is justified by obstacles to return in nature. Unsolved procedures, which I have called tough nuts, which you now forcefully and quickly break, include the question of the monastery in Costajevic, Arboretum in Volčí Potok. The building of the Maribor Regional Archives, which has already been discussed today, is also not resolved from major claims, and they could be listed. That is why we fear that, from such a point of view, from such a law and, I stress, we are a priority for resolution, but not by limiting and creating an unequal position, the vision of other procedures so far. We fear that the ministries that are in the process and the Government, in solving these hard nuts, will skip obstacles and, with this aim, to reach the end as soon as possible and black on the white solution, may also give up certain public interests. I therefore ask myself today whether to solve the Blej island case under this law, whether what happened when the Constitutional Court said not in nature, that area of the Blej island was taken into account because of the determination of public interest and in accordance with other laws. And from this point of view and from the point of view that we are facing many more, as I say, very complicated - clearly, easier cases have been resolved earlier, some today say that because some have directed so much earlier, but easier cases have been resolved earlier, settled or otherwise. Some cases are waiting in Strasbourg, we know that. This is, of course, the question of tenants who complained to the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. In short, if this reduction in procedures is likely to detract from rights, that is the problem. And the problem is because we fear that it will not be in the interests of those to whom they are entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs. Tavsh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I was hoping to get my word a little earlier, but whatever the case, let me point out, in the context of my procedural proposal, that I had the feeling that I had also been misunderstood in the light of my discussion. You know, we didn't want to do it once, or we didn't say it wrong, I didn't say it wrong, or we didn't say it wrong or we spat on people who were faithful. Far from it. Personally, I have great respect for people and also for their choice to go to church, to be faithful. Thank God! I will say, I respect so much more faith in God in these difficult times in which we live, yes. But I would like to point out, allow me, Mr President, what I myself wanted to stress in my previous discussions was, above all, to draw attention to the incorrect work done by Minister Sturm and government policy in the name of equality and equality. So please all those who want to manipulate and want to equal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u173	Mrs. Žginer, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u174	The Roman Catholic Church with believers, and which you say with your finger to the opposition, at least to the part of the opposition where the Slovenian National Party sits, is unfair. [[...]] And I'd like you to avoid that in the future. Allow me, Mr President, it would make a lot of sense, because Minister Smurf's reaction [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u175	This is a debate, Mrs. Žgainer, be, no Please, no! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u176	I will design, I still have time within my procedural proposal. And let me warn you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u177	There's no procedural proposal, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u178	Problem with what?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u179	You want to debate and debate in the context of the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u180	Look, I have announced my procedural proposal and I would ask, as far as I can see, for time is running out, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. That's the first thing I'd warn you about. And secondly, I have three minutes to come up with a procedural proposal. As far as you know, Mr President, a procedural proposal needs to be formulated and explained. And I have, as I understand it, three minutes to finalize a procedural proposal. And if you'll excuse me, I'll just finish. The reaction of Minister Sturm in the National Assembly was inadequate. Minister Sturm comes from the executive branch of power and it is not fair for him to act in this way before the MPs of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u181	Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, I had to wait until everyone heard that you had abused the rules of procedure. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! There is much to be said about denationalisation. I must say, I am one of those who lost quite a lot of property in the family, but never and never demanded it back. I've never been to a party, and I'm not ashamed to go to church sometimes, and I don't take the story ideologically, but above all, that there's been an injustice, but today I'm sure there's a lot more injustice going on. In 1991, with the adoption of this law, we doubtless shot ourselves in the left knee, with a correction like today's, at least in some articles, I have to be honest and honest, not in all, but we will obviously get to the right knee. Denationalization is the story of my old parents. I was born about 10, 15 years after that, and no doubt this story will be expensive, very expensive for my children and my grandchildren, if ever. As mayor, I face this story of denationalization every day. A fifth of the congregation was returned to the descendants of one denationalising beneficiary. I have nothing against it as mayor, because they are good masters, they pay taxes and with them as mayor I am exemplary and well cooperated. However, I also have other outstanding claims in the congregation, where people of the type of denationalisation beneficiaries complain irrationally, without end, over and over again. when the city bypass has been standing for 10 years because we've been denied a six-meter pass across a land like that. And once we've agreed, when we're about to come to a solution, to save, and yet again, a complaint, one court, another, third, fourth. They're gonna make lawyers rich, the courts are wasting their time, and the results are nothing. See, for example, the Villa Bistrica, which was given to the municipality of Tržič. As a congregation we are fighting, the congregation is an integral part of the country, for its property, and now I have been warned because I continue these procedures, that the congregation already owes between 300 and 400 000 euros from this title alone, because the gentleman who is in France has some compensation because he simply cannot apply the matter. As mayor, I have been elected to fight and push for public interest against a private person, and at the end of the story it will happen that, of course, everyone in this country will pay this matter very dearly. In this proceeding, a court error was also manifestly made. However, the court does not admit its mistakes and errors. However, their error will obviously cost everyone, first in the municipality of Tržič and then in the country of Slovenia. What else about this story? We for a certain property, for certain properties, for which it was more than reasonable to suspect that these people who now demand a return from the Republic of Slovenia, that they had already been paid with so-called war compensation as foreign citizens, had sent our Commissioner to the archive in Belgrade before, and we were informed that he had seen the name on the list of those who had already received the compensation. Now that we have sent him back for the document, this document is suddenly no longer to be found there. All of a sudden, this paper is gone. When I asked how that was possible, yes, they said, you know, the mayor, maybe someone on the other side who doesn't want this argument to be found and obviously weighs more than you weigh. And here I declare and ask the Minister, the Ministry and this country to obtain a list of all these people who claim the denationalisation process and were foreign citizens to check who has already received something. It is said that such a list exists in The Hague alongside Belgrade. But listen to whether it is rational and wise for all individuals and all the mayors to fight for these lists in permitted and illicit ways, or whether it would be the Ministry and the state's task to not have to pay the state twice. If anyone else does, I will put an amendment on my own in this direction so that the state also obtains the appropriate lists of who has already received the compensation once. For there are some reasonable suspicions that many who had their land then under mortgage receive the matter back today and that someone has sold the matter twice or three times. The first time he hired a loan, he got the money for it, then because it was a mortgage, and now the Slovenian state will pay it back and pay it back again. I think we're on the wrong track. I can say about this law that I support a good purpose, which was for the procedures to be completed quickly and within a reasonable time. That is, I must say, the good and positive side of marriage. However, I hope that we will not be too hasty, just as they rushed too much in those times that the vast majority in this National Assembly condemns, immediately after the end of World War II, and there have been unreasonable mistakes. The snail said the speed was never good when it was thrown from the bend. I think that all the facts must be examined, archives opened, but the Ministry or the state must do so in the interest of all Slovenes and Slovenes. I also have to say that the story of denationalisation is like evergreen. We started in 1991, first the castles, then the forests, before the end of this session, we will also talk about the denationalisation of the deer, and the day after tomorrow about the need to denationalize the mushrooms, blueberries, so that they must be given the denationalisation of their owner in the next step of free transition across the forests. What happens next morning, I don't know, maybe one of these new bad guys will want to become the absolute owner of the sun, the air, the water, and that some of them will own this plane over their pitches. The story goes without borders or common sense. Then there is an interesting Article 7 which states that in cases where public property, public roads, water, reservoirs and so on have been built or reconstructed, if no agreement has been reached within 6 months with whom, with the current owner or with the potential owner? [[...]] We have installed water coverages that provide 12,000 inhabitants on some of the gentleman's land, which is a potential denationalising beneficiary. He's not ready for any agreement, no deal. So I'm gonna make a deal against someone if it's not possible? Against whom should I initiate a decommissioning procedure? Against yourself, against the congregation? We are now written in the book of the earth as the owner of the congregation, but someone is applying this requirement, but it is not for a wise and sober agreement. Are people going to run out of water because of such stories? We're building in the Market, and this is the moment we're trying to build a restored public water supply, to replace the saloons and the asbestos pipes and to build a cleaning plant. Just because of the denationalisation process, due to unacquired service or potential ownership, a project worth between €15 million and €20 million is in the air. Hanging out in the air because people don't want to talk and talk, and we're giving them property, and we're giving them some extra security and protection with this law. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly declared ownership, but many times it records that property is not absolute. I respect property, I appreciate it, I'm for every reasonable agreement, but when it doesn't work, then the country has to cut and say, that's right. However, I support, for example, Article 9, that when it comes to the return of an agricultural land, this land, if we also have other land under the agricultural land fund, is to be replaced within two, three months. Two days ago, we sat on the Internal Policy Committee, and there was, for example, a complaint by someone who had been offered compensation for an agricultural land ten years ago, for a field of 2,300 meters worth of the 32,000 marks at the time, and they did not agree, they had already complained seven times, and now there will be a constitutional dispute and I do not know what else. Listen, this land, the field, and there it was for the lawn, is worth less than 16,000 euros today if we turn it. And someone has an interest in justifying, complaining, stealing time, money, and resources, but they're not ready to take this land. This should be completed within three months, say, if you do not want to take compensation, if you do not want to take the same large field or meadow somewhere else, then the story is over. We cannot be a young generation and our descendants prisoners and hostages of this crazy denationalization story. However, I support the proposal, which has also been heard today, that the most difficult cases end with money, simply because refunds in nature do not go and are of such importance, then the matter needs to be settled with money. I hear many complaints, and even in the one now going to the Constitutional Court, it has been interestingly written that the value of this land is changing today and so on. Undoubtedly, the value of those bonds, which were then taken and received, denationalisation, is today quite, quite different than when people got them, 12 years ago, 13 or 14 years ago. We also gave the same people extra credits for income and taxes, and it may even be at that time. But one day this story, for God's sake, has to be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u184	Your Honors are here! During the whole monitoring of the debate, I think we are all united only in that the existing law on denationalisation is not a good law. That this law, on the one hand, is too loose, too extensive, too generous and too narrowly defined, in sayings, "justifications". On the other hand, at least the government Members are saying that it is a bad law because the procedures are not yet completed, for which you think they should already be. At the time of adoption of the then adopted law on denationalisation, it was said that the law would allow for the regulation of these relations within a year. We see that it is not that the period has increased by more than 10 times. Today, the government comes in to replace this law and says that if the law is adopted, it will resolve these matters within three months. We all know that's not gonna happen. But the problem of this marriage is not in this time dimension of three months, which will eventually change into three, five years. The problem is that the new novelty of the law brings, at least in my opinion, some dangerous content or moments. Undoubtedly, one of them is the reverse intervention, or the establishment of an extraordinary remedy, which will open up legal cases in individual cases. According to my assessment, if you support the law today at first reading and if the content is left behind, there is indeed going to be an even greater disaster here than we have today in the area of denationalisation. Personally, I am one of those who very much opposes stories about denationalisation, because I am sure that the whole story is subject to, but I do not want to start the darkness, but someone can respond, that is, to the content and wealth of the Roman Catholic Church. And that the whole story at the second level is intended to make them even more rich in friendship precisely because there is no proper basis in the basic law on denationalisation to determine historical facts. And that the current authority is adapting, carrying out out out-of-court settlement and settlement on the content mentioned in pursuit of that objective, so that it remains in power and, on the other hand, if we look at the time dimension of this law, we see that it will be introduced in its content, given the normal legislative procedure in this mandate, which means that the life expectancy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the same as that of the current government. From this title, I fear that the purpose of the law is solely to reward once more that element, which is a fact and whether or not someone will cry again within the hall or not, that the Roman Catholic Church will be the richest economic operator in our country and that only part of the Roman Catholic Church is taking care of the foreign side, and in particular the care of financial representation. Even if we look at the economic transactions, the financial exposure of the said institution, then we see that this law should not even come into the parliamentary procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia speaks and shows us how this law is okay because it simplifies procedures. Yes, but this law is about as if in the field of the Penal Code it is said that it is only doubtful enough to put a man before a wall. Even in that case, such procedures - suspected, would end very quickly. There would probably be no waiting periods, probably not disproportionately long judicial decisions and similar things. But justice and then justice. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, honesty should also play a role, regardless of who is currently ruling in our country. [[...]] And allow me, because several times it was exposed and repeatedly mentioned in 1945, how the property of the Roman Catholic Church was seized. From this town, it was 1939, then Minister Korošec, in the framework of the SHS, simply ascribed to the Roman Catholic Church [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the forests of Pokluka and Mezakli, and for that he did not even get the trademarks in the framework of the SHS. [[...]] But that's how part of the Roman Catholic Church's assets came into being, which is what you're all saying today, how indignant he was. There's a minister [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Besides, I think we've already told each other everything today. We have made it clear to those who support the law that it seems to us 15 years too long to correct injustices and to achieve the basic principle of the rule of law, that is the principle of justice. No matter how much was taken or taken, so much should be returned. If anyone is disturbed by this, I would like to return less than was taken, of course, this is not the principle of righteousness and, of course, we cannot support such an attitude. We have heard that it is appropriate for some beneficiaries to return, and for others it is by no means appropriate to return. This is a second violation of the principle of justice. So, again in this democratic country, which has become a member of the European Union, there are principles that no longer actually guarantee equality before the law. I can only understand this as being indigestion and fear that things would be put in their place as they were, but at the same time, in fact, from the debate, which is a little confused at times, we can understand that this law is actually trying to solve and relieve the fears, the consequences that have been shown here. Above all, as far as the land that is now in management or not with public infrastructure is concerned, I think that, thank God, there is one article that is trying to resolve this issue. There was also a gentleman who used to be Minister of the Environment. A whole bunch of public infrastructure is on private land and not a single step has been taken to resolve it. And it's not about land that was nationalized, it's about private land where it used to be built. Half of the roads or three-quarters of the roads in Slovenia are under way and no legal act has been adopted to solve this problem. And then someone tells me what the problem is now with this law, trying to solve at least those parts of the land that have been nationalised and trying to find a solution in favour of public infrastructure. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, in the interest of course, to solve the problems in favour of public infrastructure, certainly, Mrs Pečanova. Otherwise, you can sign up for the word. You always comment when others talk. I'd ask you nicely to get rid of this because we don't comment when you talk. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, it's true. I would like to point out once again, earlier in the debate, how the country will be at a disadvantage, because the beneficiaries will be given back some of the assets that have been taken away from them, and now this will mean additional costs for the country, additional burdens and will literally damage the country. Once again, the country is about people and not people because of the state. They're citizens in front of the country. Absolutely. If they have been wronged, these injustices must be corrected. And this law aims to end this 15-year agonie and to solve the injustices that have been done many years ago, that it will also be no more, I will say, a disturbing issue also on the political scene, that it will no longer disturb us, that we will be able to start once, no matter how we look specifically at this problem, to look more constructively into the future, all together those who are currently responsible for the political decisions in this country. I would suggest that we try to support this law, correct it in those articles where it may not be ideal. I think that some comments from colleagues have also been justified, which I could also agree with, which is also linked to the agricultural land fund, I could also personally agree with. And I think there is something to say about this fund. However, I certainly do not think it is good for this matter to stop because it cannot be realized in such a short time. I don't think that reason really counts. The Government, I think, is also right to propose solutions that can be implemented within its mandate. I think it is very responsible to propose the deadlines that can be achieved within its mandate. I am also sure that this government will do everything to end this agony. In particular, from this point of view, I can once again say that I will support this law myself. However, I am also convinced that the Government and Mr Minister are willing to listen to and take into account comments that could improve this law and achieve the effectiveness of completing this denationalisation story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much. It may be agreed that laws must be passed. It may be agreed that the enforcement of this law takes too long. However, it is correct to say that so far it has not been desirable to draw any attention to the inadmissibility of the content of the current law, even though reasoned observations and reasoned observations have been made. International comparisons were all the time, and no one was willing to hear a word of this. I will recall because I was privileged to have been in Parliament even at the time we adopted this law, that at the time before the parliament of Geoffrey Sachs, which Demos had brought to Slovenia to promote property transformation and the abolition of social property and the introduction of private property, he said that this was an unacceptable proposal of a law that would cause harm to the country and that people would argue with each other. Unfortunately, he was right. We listened to him in many ways, but at this point we were not prepared to listen to him. The second thing I'd like to point out. Yes, citizens are ahead of the country and their obligations must be respected. But why just some? I don't understand that. Why just some? Why was that country, including that country or that government, in which I was also a coalition partner, unable and willing to tell what would happen to the correction of material injustices? In addition to the beautiful words and promises, the current minister may have done the most because he at least collected all the data, told the government how much the total amount was, said that he himself estimated that it would be possible to harm people with about 30% rather than total value, and suggested that the government take further action. But the government acted by putting these proposals in the drawer. But even in this case, if the Minister's proposal, which was acceptable, had been accepted, there would have been 30% compensation. We gave the denationalisation beneficiaries 100%, and we did not fully take into account the investments that were in these properties in 50 years. Today, the Government has decided against the law or unilaterally from the point of view of the law that it will return only in nature, even where there are real obstacles to not returning in nature, because the object is used for public benefit because it is not determined whether the replacement facility will cost more than just reimbursement because it is a solution that is more appropriate to the beneficiaries. That's the government's decision. In some cases, the Government has decided not to give any powers to the defence, to lodge complaints or to represent the interests of the State, because the interests of the beneficiaries are in the interests of the State. That's what we don't feel right about in Social Democracy. And these are not useful solutions. These are unilateral solutions that will not ensure the proper situation of beneficiaries, perhaps any, and will lead to many new conflicts that we will face over the years. Getting out of court that everything was just bad because it wasn't solved, but not because it was bad in a lot of ways, it's just not true. To assume that any return in the short term will also constitute a substantive correct solution is not correct. Already in the administrative authorities, they know that the Government, the current ministries that decide on this, want procedures to be speeded up and found definitive solutions, even if, as they say, all rights and obligations are not taken into consideration. But this is a solution that means unilateral exercise of interests, not the interests of all. It would be wise for the State and the National Assembly to consider such solutions, since they could then come up with much better words, so that they would also accept the concerns expressed by colleagues and colleagues, simply in the light of the experience we have, cannot be trusted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek. He's quitting because there's not enough time. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I have closely followed the whole debate and all the thoughts of individual debaters. However, to begin with, the debate was focused not on the draft law we have before us in much of today, but on the denationalisation law adopted in 1991. It was aimed at fundamental solutions to the law, which was adopted 16 years ago and should have been implemented long ago. Therefore, I cannot and do not wish to define myself to these positions, but I only point out that the law, which has been in force for so long, cannot be amended in any substantive way. This law, as adopted in 1991, should be brought to an end as soon as possible. However, calls for the early conclusion of denationalisation were noted in a debate that was also contradictory to cities. It is true that some of the calls have been directed in this direction: let us complete the procedures as soon as possible, so that we can resolve in such a way that we do not return anything so that we do not please the denationalising beneficiaries. This is also one of the solutions, of course, if they are not entitled to demand what they want. Why not? I completely agree. But of course it is equally legitimate then to say that we are, however, also in order to allow those who are entitled to conclude their matters under the Denationalisation Act to resolve their affairs, even if they are in their best interests. That's what the law requires, that's what the constitution requires. I must say that I was in some way concerned about the tone that appeared in today's debate, because they were clearly contrary to the views expressed in the series of years, in the various compositions and under the various Presidents of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In this call, the Constitutional Court called on all state bodies. The State authorities are, of course, in addition to those who decide in the process of denationalisation, including other state authorities, not least the National Assembly - to do their utmost to close denationalisation as soon as possible and to take into account that the Constitutional Court, as the primary and most complete form of redress, recognises the return in nature. This is the central position of the Constitutional Court. I am concerned that in today's debate I have observed a number of shades or even revealed objections to this obvious and clearly repeated and repeated - at least 20 times this has been done by the Constitutional Court - to a communication from the Constitutional Court. I'm not going to determine whether or not the previous governments have taken it into account, just so someone doesn't realize that I'm talking about previous governments. The current government wants to respect him. In the opening recital, I also pointed out that the decision on whether the authority in the procedure which decides on the matter or decides to return in kind or in the form of a financial compensation is not in the hands of the administrative authority. It is in the hands of the denationalisation beneficiary and within the framework of the law. It is the law that lays down the conditions in this respect. If these conditions have not been respected so far and if someone has considered that it is the task of the State authorities to force beneficiaries, through long-term procedures and in all other ways, to bend their hands, to give up and to give up, not to demand a return in nature, but to be satisfied with compensation in bonds, then of course such conduct is not legal conduct, it is not conduct in accordance with the rule of law. And we must strive to act strictly in line with their demands and with the demands laid down by law. Let me explain something else. Many times today's debate has heard the deadlines of three months, if, now we're going to hear it or even revolutionaryly, but now we're going to make it happen. But who? The authority that decides to solve the matter within three months? Who is this organ? This is a court or administrative body which must be resolved by law within two months. Yeah, after he's got all the data, in two months. A general legal term that has always been valid. But listen, because today in the National Assembly there were very difficult words of mistrust in our judicial system, in the judicial system, in the functioning of the courts. It was a sub-tony. Now the courts will return the revolutionary. Yes, it is a deep lack of confidence in the work of the courts and I owe it to him here to firmly reject it. I don't think we can afford such a tone until the third branch of power. Let me explain that, too. Look, this is one of the instructions. Such instructional deadlines, honourable Members and Members, have already been very much accepted in this National Assembly. This isn't the first or the last. You've accepted many, you'll accept many more. Does anyone know which one is the shortest? Will anyone tell what is the shortest time limit for substantive decision - making? I'll tell you. Eight days. Yeah. 8 days shall apply to the decision on asylum. Did anyone then protest that this deadline was too short for a just decision to be made? And in the laws you find a whole series of such instructional hands. They are all really justified, just as this period is indeed justified. And let me put it this way. This does not mean, of course, that the matter will indeed be resolved within three months, for the period following the concept offered by the law will be counted when the application is complete when the views of both parties are presented, thus ensuring the full scope or dialogue of both parties in the process. And this is going to take longer than that, three months ago. And keep going. Of course, the Court never decides definitively. A complaint may be lodged against the court’s decision. We have a deadline of appeal, and then we need to count again all the possibilities of answering the complaint again from the other party, which means that this deadline, which is then again in the Court of Appeal for three months, cannot be summed up, three months and three months, but already the first period of three months means a few more than three months and also that second period means a lot more than three months. So every speech, I'd say even, I'm not going to say sneezing, I'll say, speaking perhaps out of ignorance of the proceedings that are pending before the courts, this period of course is much longer. However, what is important is that it clearly ensures that all decision-making bodies, both administrative authorities and courts, have objectively a real judgement, that all circumstances are fully taken into account and that, in so doing, a fair and impartial trial. And that's what we want. There's something else we can't forget. These cases, if they have not been resolved so far, have not been resolved for 16 years, but have not been resolved for 16 years because they have not come at all. Since either the administrative authority or the court has not even begun to solve the case, it has not taken any action. This is the main reason why we want these matters to be resolved with respect for instructional deadlines. It was also said that the Ministry of Justice had prepared this law in a secret group. Of course that's not true. In addition to officials at the Ministry of Justice, two external associates did. Every time they ask us, we tell everyone who these outside associates are. One was a former supreme judge and an excellent acquaintance of denationalisation, Jože Sedonia, and the other was a former constitutional judge and now a professor at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, Dr. Loize Ude, a very good acquaintance and also a writer and author of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I'm sorry about the motion. I missed it. [[...]] In accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I am opening an application for all those who wish to discuss. Seven applicants, each with four minutes. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Why it is also necessary for this denationalisation to end once, but in a fair and just way, it is also necessary that many buildings that were once in the hands of other owners are now falling apart, falling apart, endangering security. Even those owners, if it is a local community, should not be affected or spent on something we do not know whether or not there will be a lot of tax money. Once again, I am asking the question that the Minister has certainly overheard before: Will the state obtain records of all those who have already received compensation from foreign countries and take this into account? Or will it also obtain data on which denationalised property that is now returning in nature was then mortgaged and then also obtained money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u194	In today's debate, I must say that I have been severely affected in person several times. I think that this was mainly due to the lack of knowledge of the basic law on denationalisation and also of the treatment of today's law, and I am grateful to the Minister that he has, in the end, again explained these main facts which are important for this process of denationalisation. Anyone who today disagrees with the fact that the wrongs done are being corrected in a fair manner, I do not think that they belong in the time we live in. For many years, 50 years the owners have been deprived of use, and for the use of this property, which has been unduly confiscated in the previous system, they could not have benefited from this property for a number of years, and unfortunately they could not. And now, I'm going to say just after changing our system and learning the truth, when we're trying to make things right, I can't understand that you're contradicting these facts. For so many years, this denationalisation has been under way, and we do not want to end it. I myself have done a lot in the previous service in this area, not by making decisions, but by preparing data that have helped administrative units that have led matters of denationalisation and also some things have quickly returned. But I don't see any reason why things are taking so long and we're putting them off. Many municipalities also have real problems due to denationalisation, but not because it is denationalisation, but because denationalisation is not solved. And if we all want to speed up this matter with this three-month deadline, which can also mean a little more time, even a few years to get this thing done, I think we can all just benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that there is not much time available, I will only say a few thoughts, but it will probably be time to say something in future. I'd like to say that I've never been alone and I'm not burdened by denationalization. I'm not one of those bums whose parents' assets were denationalized, nor am I one of those lucky people who would get anything by denationalizing, because I had poor parents. But I stand firm for it, and I will always stand behind it, so I was raised, so I raised my children, and I believe, all of you, that property is irresistible, and that every property that was taken, or nationalized, or stolen, must be returned. I do not share the beneficiaries among natural and legal persons; for me all beneficiaries are subject to the same constitution, the same laws. This bill, which I consider to be a good basis for effectively eliminating the duality in order to add certain additional solutions and additions so that these denationalisation procedures can be completed once again. However, I would like to ask all those who oppose it and have already announced in advance that they would oppose the adoption of this law. How are we going to solve this denationalisation, because one day it has to be solved - are we going to sweep it under the rug? Mr. Žnidaršič says we should stall with her - until when? That they'll all die? They'll still be heirs! And once it has to be concluded, it takes so much wisdom to find such a common consensus, such solutions, that we can end these matters. I myself have been paying attention to certain "observations", comments, and I myself have certain concerns, but I believe that something with the Minister's explanation, as well as further consideration, that we will drink up certain provisions that after the third reading we will only find so much wisdom to adopt the law. However, I believe that there will always be some Members, Members who will oppose any solution. It is important for them that this problem of denationalisation is never resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I think it is very appropriate for the Minister to give such a legal and legal expert explanation and reject the allegations that have been proposed here, perhaps out of ignorance, and probably out of improper conduct. And it is also wonderful that it has shown that some lawyers, even among Members, knowingly or out of ignorance, do not master the legal alphabet and that they also advocate strange values. This is how Dar Lavtijar's colleague recommended to the minister earlier that it is not a real secretary, since it is necessary to be tactful, disrespect for justice, equality, timeliness, but rather to be unsupervised and put off. And these are strange values and beautiful morals, and I hope that her candidate and classmate, Mr Türk, will be shielded from such morality. Previously, it also stood up, and part of this was expressed in its performance - a global lack of confidence in the work of the courts, as has been said. I think it's an allegation that the Supreme Court acted by order of authority in some case, interfering with the independence of the court. I didn't expect that if Michael was so intrigued that lawyers would intrigue and cast such intrigues here. I also have to answer my colleague Žnidaršič because he obviously didn't understand me, but he reacted earlier. I got stuck, and I told him he was a victim, and I know his family's story, and they took it away, and I hope they got it back under this law. However, the victim was also in the previous system when the Tito-Brandt agreement did not give the migrants anything and did not know where that money went. But I warned you, it seems strange to me that he is now sifting with those who are against the return against the correction of the wrongs. He is also a victim: two times during the war, both totalitarian systems. For this reason, I hope that he will realize that such thesis - as well as those of his, that young children can also be traitors. This is a civilizational achievement that children are not guilty of acts in which they have been forced. As a result, this law is going in the right direction and these principles and these civilizational achievements must be respected somewhere and realized somewhere that they must be taken away, stolen and returned. I just don't understand this opposition that you're so resisting civilisational solutions. If there's anything that can be worked out in the marriage, and I think it's possible, suggest, but with good intentions, not because you're building on the "fosh" and the Hujski politics. It is necessary to end such matters with scolding and "fungalism". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you. Mrs. Bebler, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u200	I have a replica because Mr Jerovšek did not understand me correctly. On the contrary, when I spoke about this bill, I spoke about the fact that it introduces some elements which are controversial in terms of equality before the law and in this sense I advocated that denationalisation be completed, but that we should be careful in this law not to impose inequalities before the law. That was my warning. And Mr Jerovšek, your "timing" was now fine because it was within these minutes that you have available, but the content of your statement was completely inadequate, but I cannot help but understand what I was trying to say earlier in my debate. And one more thing, Dr. Türk is not my classmate, you know, because he's two years younger than I am, and I was a good student, and I graduated in time, and somehow he couldn't catch me in this way to be a classmate. Of course, I wouldn't mind being, as far as I know, an excellent expert in another legal field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much. So, I must say that the claim that there should be a long-standing law on denationalisation can, of course, be very real, but we should take a little look, especially those who claim that it is non-civilisation, because it takes so long to implement it, as denationalisation took place, for example, in Germany, how it never started in France, how, let's say, completely all the objects that were owned in the early 19th century by the Church in France are still now owned by the state of France and so on. But there's something else I have to say. This law, which we are considering today, is presented as a law which is intended to speed up all the restorative processes, as said by colleague Gantar, but also has after the cracks of this government, and in particular this ministry, a few other things that spread the law on denationalisation. This is, for example, Article 2 which allows, despite a completely different interpretation in the very text of the interpretation of the law, also such quasi-beneficiaries who so far have not had the opportunity to recover property that has even been obtained under feudal legislation such as Auerspergi, Windisch-Greatz, Attemsi, Žiči and so on. Secondly, in Article 3, we introduce the right to restitution of property to those who have been convicted of war crimes or treason, a collaboration where, on the basis of the law on criminal proceedings, the sentences against them are likely to be abolished - it is said that there are 200 of them now - and that they themselves or their descendants will be able to demand restitution of property. Since Article 3 speaks of the administrative authority having to consider the procedure as if the claim for the restitution of assets had been submitted in due time, in accordance with the law on denationalisation. By the way, I would also like to say that Dr. Alexander Bajc prepared a study in which he discovered that there was a huge amount of property recovered in nature or in money, in compensation vouchers, which were covered by mortgages at the end of the war or at the beginning of World War II, but was paid in full, without taking into account that these people who received the property had never paid those loans. Now, whether it's a place or not, I'd say it's actually the middle place for the bank that never got the money back. So we can ask ourselves how this is possible! So we returned something that wasn't even owned by this man. It is an example, for example, of Hutter's block, which was returned in Maribor in 1993; you know exactly what this is about. Speaking of how the new forest masters care. The Goloseks happen and they happen, specifically I know about the Argentinean, about the Slovenian from Argentina who got the forests back in Dolenjska - he never saw them because he was never there. And he ordered the company to cut down all the woods completely, make a nuisance, the money went to Argentina, of course, and the woods fell. Lubadar - therefore, Mr President of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber notes that due to the very poor concern for forests, the skull is destroying Slovenian forests. Railways and Kropa have occurred largely due to poor forest care. So we could talk about what happens to denationalization.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac. Yes, Mr. Secretary, you're in the end. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. The debate on the proposed law has further encouraged polarisation in our society. In fact, the proposed law raised even more concerns about the eligibility of the claims themselves, about the eligibility of those who are to be returned to nationalised property, and in particular whether this is actually done in a fair manner. The difference between the institution and individuals has also often been blurred. If I may be more specific, if the Church cooperated with the invader during the war, that does not mean that all believers are traitors. That is why I want to return to the very starting point, to what we need denationalisation in the first place, that is to say nationalisation itself. I see two main reasons why it came after the war to nationalization. The first one was a sociopolitical system that did not allow property, and as a result, assets were nationalized to those who had more than was acceptable. The second case of nationalisation was the punishment. Fair punishment for cooperation with the occupying party. And to those who were held property taken from the social system of that time, it is fair to return to them. But those who have been nationalised for their extradition sentences, for their cooperation, I think it would be best for them to stay quiet and be ashamed of their treachery. And let me conclude by supporting, I welcome the simplification of denationalisation procedures, the early implementation of denationalisation procedures, of course, where they are justified. In no way would I want this simplification to be simplified, but this acceleration becomes a simplification for the creation of new injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. I will respond to some of the views from the debate on this latest expertise from the legal expert on revolutionary law from the past and will not object. It was said, someone said that either way the state or taxpayers would pay the financial consequences of this law. Of course that's true. But the taxpayers will also pay all the costs and all the compensation that will and will be paid for the 16-year process of returning this property. Thus, this comparison is rather unrealistic. I can't help but feel that some of the opponents of this law are based on the principle: we have received our own, and for others we will do our best to keep them from getting anything back. It was also said: why are we in a hurry? But how can we say that after 16 years of not realizing what we wrote down in 1991 that this property will return in one year? I am also saddened by some xenophobic attacks on the Catholic Church that have emerged today, especially on the part of those who always declare very highly condemn xenophobia, intolerance, etc. Now the main protagonists were very severe xenophobic outbursts. And, of course, I would say that in my opinion, it is here that this is why they advocate that the return of property in itself is nothing wrong. Only that this return would not be justified by the Catholic Church, regardless of the fact that it fulfils the same conditions for return as all other beneficiaries. So I cannot accept such views in any way that I am not talking about the fact that this is a strong commitment to the inequality and inequality of one category of people. The MP, the current mayor of one municipality, said he advocated public interest in the private interest. Certainly, this is very commendable, but of course, the public interest cannot undermine any private right that a person has. So on behalf of the public interest, you must not trample on private rights. And, of course, in returning property where there is a beneficiary of this return, I do not think there is any way that this entitlement should be trampled in this way. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It is said that the public interest requires that the property is not returned, even though this beneficiary is entitled to it. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make some clarifications to Articles 2 and 3 of the proposed law, which has been discussed. There was a misinterpretation of Article 2. Article 2 refers only to former Yugoslav citizens, says nationals of countries who have disappeared from a former common country, and therefore any link with nationals of countries is meaningless. With regard to Article 3, one Member and one Member of the National Assembly have commented on this, and I must clarify that these are persons who have already been fully and fully rehabilitated by the Court's legal judgment. On the basis of a judicial judgment of their formerly installed post-war trials, they are granted the right to compensation, to be denationalised under the law on denationalisation. Therefore, the charges that have been made are a case of insulting accusations against these persons and I feel obliged to point out this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is to consider the amendment of the Act and the amendments to the Act on the Official List of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask Vice-President Srečk Hvauc to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 37th meeting, on 3.10.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration after a reduced procedure. At the meeting, the representative of the proposer, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Law Service, submitted an additional or supplementary explanation of the bill. The proposed changes and additions are due to the change in the ownership structure of the public undertaking, since now the only owner and member of the public company is the Republic of Slovenia, the responsibility of the assembly on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia is exercised by the government and the proposed law reduces the number of members of the supervisory board from the original 5 to 3. The proposed amendments also aim to harmonise with European legislation in terms of conferring powers on certain holders of public powers to publish the rules. At the meeting, the Legislative and Legal Service was also represented by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service and in particular made a comment to Article 1. The representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia indicated that they support or have no comments. Members or members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. Since no amendments were tabled to the bill and no amendments were adopted by the Committee, the Committee voted only on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Given that no amendment has been proposed and adopted in the second reading of the draft law on the home working body to the draft law, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, a reduced procedure, be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u211	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thanks again for saying that. We will support the new law on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in the DeSUS Group. These are changes in two areas governed by the basic law, but this does not prejudice the objectives and basic principles of the law itself. The first amendment concerns the state-of-the-art regulation of a public undertaking, which is the result of a change in the ownership structure of this public undertaking, as it is only going back to state ownership. The public company Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, d.o.o., was established after the execution of the property transformation in accordance with the Act of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, until then the newspaper office of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The company was first registered under the name Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, d.o.o. and the change of the company and the addition of the activity were registered in 2000, so that the company has since then been operating under the name Public Company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, d.o.o. The proposed change in this direction will also legally regulate the status of this company, namely that it is the only owner and member of this company, Republic of Slovenia. As a result, it is also proposed to exercise the powers of the Assembly by the Government and to reduce the number of members of the panel, which we agree with in our group. However, the second amendment concerns the publication of the rules in the Official Journal. The current regulation provides that, in the event of an assessment that the Minister's regulation does not comply with the applicable legislation, and the Minister insists on such publication, the Head of Service shall inform the President of the Government thereof and propose to suspend the enforcement of this regulation. On the basis of a proposal, the President of the Service would propose to suspend the publication of the regulation. We consider such changes to the DeSUS Group to be appropriate, so we will contribute our vote to the proposed amendment to the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The basic purpose of the current law on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia is to regulate the publication of legal acts and regulations, as well as the provisions on the publisher of this publication, which is a public undertaking of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and which is involved in at least 51% of the capital under Article 12 on the ownership structure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that the adoption of the proposed amendment to the law is urgently necessary as the ownership structure of this public undertaking has changed in the last year. The Republic of Slovenia has become the sole owner and shareholder and it is necessary to amend accordingly the individual provisions of the law governing the ownership and management of this public undertaking. In this way, the powers of the Assembly will be exercised by the Government and the number of members of the Supervisory Board will be reduced from 5 to 3 members, with the Assembly appointing a member on a proposal from the Government and one appointed by the Council of Public Works. In the parliamentary group, we also support the simultaneous improvement of the provisions governing the substantive procedures for the publication of the rules of ministries and the new Chairman of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry. The provisions are moving towards a faster and more effective application of the rules in practice. The current law provides that the Head of the Law Service shall alert the Ministry if it considers that the regulation does not comply with the law, law or other provisions. If the Minister persists in the publication, the Prime Minister shall inform the President of the Government thereof and propose to suspend the implementation of the published regulation. The amendment amends that the chairman proposes only to delay the publication of the invitation to tender, but not to delay the enforcement of the regulation. It also gives additional powers to the Law Service to carry out, in addition to reviewing the rules of the ministries, reviews of acts, holders of public powers and supervisors of bodies in the composition prior to their publication in the Official Gazette. We will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u216	The main activity and essence of the existence of the company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia is the issuance of the official publication of the Republic of Slovenia Official Gazette, its electronic edition and collections of individual years in printed edition. After the last property transformation the ownership structure has changed, so now the public company is now owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Amendments to the Law on the Official Journal are due to this last property conversion and therefore the number of members of the Supervisory Board decreases from 5 to 3 members and their structure. Of this, one member will be appointed by the Council of Workers in accordance with the law on the participation of workers in management and two will be appointed by the Assembly on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Government Office for Law. The next important amendment is the amendment to Article 10 of the current law. The Novela proposes that, in the event of an assessment that the Minister's regulation is not in accordance with the Constitution, law or other provisions of the National Assembly or Government, the Minister may, however, insist on the publication, inform the President of the Government. The President of the Government is proposed to suspend the publication of the regulation, not enforcement, as provided for in the law currently in force. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr Drofenik will also present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u218	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! As we know, according to the new Public Company, the Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia is 100 % owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The logical consequences of ownership changes are, of course, also changes to the provisions of the law that speak of corporate governance. On this occasion, we agree that certain editorial changes will also be introduced into the law, bringing greater clarity to the provisions of the law. Amendments to the law provide that the only owner and member of the public undertaking is the Republic of Slovenia and that the responsibility of the assembly of the company is exercised by the Government. One member of the Supervisory Board is appointed by the Council of Employees of a Public Enterprise and two by the Assembly of a Public Enterprise, one on a proposal from the Office of the Government for Legislation and one on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. The Supervisory Board is therefore expected to fall to three members, which we think is correct, as there will be no larger number of participants in a public undertaking. Under the current regulation, the Law Enforcement Service shall carry out a systematic and nominal review of the acts and shall have the power to notify the Minister of any non-compliance with the law, law, other provisions of the National Assembly or government rules and, if the Minister does not take these warnings into account, shall propose to the President of the Government the suspension of the publication of the regulation and the non-retention of the enforcement of the regulation as provided for in the current regulation. The weakness of the current regime is that the Chairman of the Law Service does not have the same powers for acts of the holders of public powers and acts of the supervisors of the bodies in the composition. As it has been shown in practice that these acts also require a legal and nomological review, we agree with the amendment of the law allowing the Law Service, in addition to the review of the rules of ministers, to review acts of public authorities and acts of body supervisors before publication in the Official Gazette. For this reason, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the context of the half-hour vote, which is at 17.55. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the session of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u220	Dear Members and Members! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check their voting devices. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. Mr. Kumer, please, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we postpone the decision on the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia to one of the future meetings. Those who were present today in the Chamber for more than a three-hour debate could hear several words spoken, not a very well-intentioned statement by the chairman of the Committee and our colleague, Mr Grimes. At the time of the meeting, Mr Vlado Zabot, President of the Association of Slovenian Writers, spoke and wrote a statement protesting some of Mr Grimes' remarks. But you know that it was essentially the 6th and 11th articles that we discussed. Only two summaries of this letter, namely: "I was briefly appalled by the extremely insulting assumption of the MEP of Mr Mag. Branka Grims, if the Association of Slovenian Writers or I, as its current president, has been able to change its opinion under the influence of the political structures and methods of the old communist times or their modern protagonists." And go ahead. "At the same time, I must warn you, and Mr Grims has made a great deal of speech, that Mr Grims, in today's parliamentary debate, has interpreted this discussion of amendments in the premises of the New Journal very in his own way." The text is still going on. "For all the above, I am ready to defend myself and..."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u222	Mr. Kumer, I'd like to ask you to make a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u223	My procedural proposal is to stop this point, to put it at one of the next meetings. [[...]] In order for Mr Zabot to come to this National Assembly and Mr Grims to apologize to all of us and to the Slovenian public for all the words he has said today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u224	This procedural proposal is in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not after paragraph 73. Do it again, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u225	I propose that today's decision on the agenda item, which is the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia, be moved to one of the next meetings. At that time, however, he invited himself to the National Assembly of the Government of Frogot and to explain why the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Sport had been building his argument, why we should not support the amendments tabled by the opposition and the Association of Writers of Slovenia during the discussion and agreement he had with the president of this society. In the statement you all received, the President himself denied this conversation, as presented by Mr Grims in this National Assembly. That is why I propose that he introduce himself and that Mr Zabot come here to the National Assembly and that Mr Grims apologize for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Kumer. However, after the third paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I cannot put this to the vote. We're moving on to the session. Please, if you look, I looked. No, we can't talk about the interruption. No, we read it. Thank you very much. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendments of the Group of Members with first-signed Mr Školč to Article 6. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to support this amendment and I'm asking you all to support it. Gentlemen at the SDS, I would ask you if you had not listened to this debate if you were not reading the letters you receive from the societies to listen to this explanation. I am also embarrassed that before this meeting, I would say that everyone in the halls is tarnished to support this, but for coalition reasons, you cannot believe that society is right. If we are to ensure by this law that this agency is indeed public and not state-owned, then this supplement needs to be supported. Only this supplement ensures that three entities propose their representatives to the Council of the Agencies themselves, namely the Society, the Slovenian Universities and the SAZU, and three are proposed on a proposal from the Ministry. If it remained with other provisions adopted by the committee or now proposed by the coalition, it would mean that the government would have a dominant influence on decision-making in the agency. After the last proposal, even 6 to 1 in favour of the government and policy against the external public. I think that's unacceptable. Yesterday or these days we had a similar discussion about funding sports programmes, financing humanitarian and disability programmes. It's the same mentality everywhere. This mentality is devastating, because of this mentality, people don't trust politics in general, not just your client. And I'd like to think about it and support it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] such additions, which enable not the withdrawal of policy, but the limitation of the power of policy when it comes to public affairs. [[...]] Last but not least, it would be necessary to vote in favour of this supplement also because the chairman of the committee in this discussion actually referred to some arrangements already in the [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] Within an hour, two showed that they were not accurate. [[...]] You've all received a letter read by Comrade Kumar, you've received another letter before that in [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Skull. Procedurally. I think you see me well and you saw when I pushed the vote to run and then you raised your hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u229	Mr Vice-President, I propose that you lift this vote. We also wanted to explain ourselves and other colleagues in our own name, not only in our parliamentary group. I don't know why you were in such a hurry, but I think it's a very important decision, and if you're willing to lift this vote, I'm ready to give up my own explanation. It's not about telling you the same thing again or what I ran out of words for, but here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u230	Mr. Skolcz, for the first time, don't speak in your microphone, that's what I'd like to remind you. [[...]] [[From the mecca hall of Aleš Gulič: Yes, because he died.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u231	Because it doesn't work for me, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry. I'm not gonna explain why it's technically that way, but we're hearing from you anyway. I don't think that's a problem. I therefore propose that you withdraw the vote and that you also allow your colleagues and colleagues to clarify their position. Finally, a nice number of interested people are waiting for this, and no one will have to apologize later for not knowing what this is about. Otherwise, you will be responsible for the fact that people do not know what anyone thinks about this proposal of theirs will take your own. That wouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I think I did the right thing. I gave you a chance to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, when you were finished, I waited, I looked, I waited, I pressed the vote, and then you raised your hand. That's why we keep going. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. On behalf of the Group of Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Scholch, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u233	Thank you very much. In this case, it goes, I will say, a shameful complement that legitimizes, a complete authority over the book agency in the interest of Minister Simoniti, to be perfectly clear. With this type of supplement, the book agency will also be sent on the same route as public RTV Slovenia. With this kind of supplement you will send the Slovenian book to the road where the Slovenian film is. And I could count it. What is paradoxical is that it is probably necessary to accept a supplement so that it can be tried with what is right in the third reading. But I will oppose such a supplement myself because I oppose your principle that all segments of social life need to be managed, even where you declare that politics has nothing to look for. The questions of the book, the concept of the law, at least as recorded, should be solved in exactly the opposite of what you are now proposing. How this world will work and what it will be called, we have seen in the law on RTV and the realization of that supplement that called the world. At that time, Parliament, especially the coalition, has been reduced to, I will say, the lowest level, so that members of the coalition have allowed themselves to get the "plonk bricks" on which they write, which they can vote for and which they do not. Now you'll just leave it to the minister, and he won't have to show you. That's the truth of it. At the same time, you want to buy the Association of Slovenian Writers to make an alibi for this work. In a letter you received this morning, the president of the Society thanks you for this alibi and rejects it. You're making them do it anyway. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in this way and in this way you humiliate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u235	Thank you. We will, of course, support this coalition amendment in our parliamentary group. In fact, Article 6 of the original article, it was quite vaguely stated how much the Council of Members has in order to have between 3 and a maximum of 9. We have listened to some of the initiatives at the parental committee meeting, so this amendment has emerged, which regulates matters significantly better. We suggest that the world has seven members. The opposition MEPs proposed six members and added that then a representative of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, not the President or the President, as usual, should have the opportunity to vote decisively. One would think that such a proposal came about in order to make things even more complicated and difficult for the world to work. In addition, it must be said that the opposition amendments proposed [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] That's why our amendment came about. Since they have proposed and would limit the possibility to those who may propose members to the Council of the Institute, only at the SAZU, the Society of Writers and representatives of the University. But they exclude everything from libraries to publishers to authors. Our amendment includes all of you. At the invitation of the public, all these organisations, which are connected to the book in Slovenia in one way or another, will be able to propose. After the amendments you're proposing, that wouldn't be the case. Therefore, as we say, we will support the coalition amendment because we believe it improves the dictatorship envisaged in Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their vote before the vote? Check-in is on. Mr. Aleš Gulič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u237	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course I will vote against this amendment, because we have heard this story once before, we have seen, well, we also know the results. Discontinuation of the public, neglect of the public, neglect of its opinion, whether it is the public concerned or the general public, has become a custom. Not only do things turn out to be purely state-owned, they are now actually changing in a way that is purely personal, private. The way money is shared at the Ministry of Culture, you must have read it somewhere. If there's anything left behind, then the matter will be resolved. This may be commendable, but in the end, in an orderly state of law, this must not be an example or an excuse. You're proposing 7 sticks or 7 members, for Snow White, it's likely to be determined after Minister Simoniti himself. That's a good part! I must say that what has happened on RTV, what has happened in these votes, in the nominations, of course, speaks of the fact that all of us here must be firm against such a composition of the world. At the same time, let me say again: Up until now, the government of Zabot has always proved to be a credible man. Your suggestions are from day to day [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Every law you propose is more unworthy. [[...]] And because of that, of course, this amendment does not deserve any support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much. It will remain an open article, which, of course, pleases me. But it will be opened at a time when you will and when we will remember Trubar and when we will celebrate the day of the Reformation. I mentioned this morning that it would be appropriate for us to step on this day without reds, similar reds that the Minister of Culture may have when he steps before the Prešeren Prize winners on 8 February, after publicly discrediting this award. I understand the sensitivity to an article that discusses how much politics can interfere with that service and autonomous institution called the public agency. Sensitivity is justified because experience is extremely poor. Although the public fund for film activity is a slightly different institution, it falls into the same quota of autonomous institutions caring for one area, so that it is not necessary to do so directly to the government and to move away the levers of content decision-making. If this amendment, which you will build up as you have, will surely be supported, then it will happen that management of the book will actually be, and this only does not divide subsidies for literature and scientific publicity, threatened by the spirit we now know. And it's not a year, it's a possibility that will go to other governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, we supported the previous amendment prepared by the Association of Writers of Slovenia and signed by members of the opposition. However, we will not support this coalition supplement, although the text of this amendment is better than the solution in the original version of the law. For with this amendment, the government retains a very large one, not to say decisive authority. But it would be good for the world to be an independent and professional body. The fact is that the Government systematically subordinates all subsystems in society, as well as the Slovenian book through this board of agencies. It is good, as has been said many times today, that this article will at least be open and can be improved in the third reading. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not oppose the law on the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for a book, because we think it is a step forward. However, I think it will be necessary, if not earlier, to amend this law at least in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Another round of applications. Mr. Joseph Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you of a letter that you have certainly read and where they thank you in advance for such a solution. That's why I'm voting against it. It writes for this amendment: "For the proposal of the representative Association of Writers there is indeed a place in the world of the Agency, but all the other members of the Council after this amendment are still appointed by the founder, three directly and three directly after a public call from an untransparent selection of university proposals, SAZU, societies and people. This, of course, still allows the policy to draw up the administrative body of the Agency in its entirety and will, while in this case the independent proposal of a representative writer society could serve this policy as an alibi only." Remember what favor you are doing to the book when you say around that you did not have all the elements in front of you and that Mr Grims and Mr Gaspari convinced you with their arguments. You have documents that tell you it's not a good solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We're voting. At the same time, I would also like to tell you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. There are 74 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed Joseph Školč to Article 11. On behalf of the Group of Members, applications shall be made. Mrs. Alenka. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u245	Thank you very much. At the time of this amendment, it is important to say that we are very pleased that suddenly there is so much concern for the Slovenian book, that, when it was time for our book to actually have zero tax, such as many in the European Union, our negotiators were obviously not so aware of it during the accession negotiations, the Society of Writers, I do not know whether it was then a reminder of it or not. But anyway, it's very important that this feeling is awakened at least now that we're celebrating the 500th anniversary of Trubar's birth. We could probably have done more at that time, and perhaps the Society of Writers would not have read this to us today and would have proposed an increase in funds for the book. There is something else to say, however, that this Government is in all these years every year - that is to say that the book’s funding increases by 20% annually. However, just as you have had difficulties years ago to determine how much money is actually raised from the book tax, obviously we still can't find out exactly that today, and certainly this government and this coalition spends significantly more money on the book than it was ever intended for. This is not how we will support the amendment because we believe that a solution is appropriate in the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although he liked the amendment, they would have supported it immediately. However, the thought of the amendment does not show that there is any basis for it. In our reflection in the New Slovenia Group, we are based on the real situation achieved in the field of the book, both in terms of the amount of the budget allocated to the book, as well as on the developed forms of state aid and not least the human resources capacity that covers this area at the Ministry of Culture and the Public Research Agency. That is why we insist consistently on solutions that are fully feasible, realistic and coherent systemic legislation in the field in which the Public Book Agency will operate, namely the Public Agency Act, the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture and the Law on Public Finance. Since the book has a number of sales routes, of which only one are bookstores, and in addition because the book is taxed at a lower tax rate, on the basis of which taxpayers may make the difference between entry and exit VAT, it is not possible, according to Dursa, to precisely assess the volume of VAT collected per book. This letter, dated 10 May 2004, was also made known to the Association of Slovenian Writers. The amendment is thus based on at least four indeterminates, according to our assessment. First, none of the competent authorities can provide information on how much VAT per book is carried out annually in Slovenia. Second. It is inappropriate for the budget funds intended to support the Slovenian book to be set in the light of an assessment of the VAT collected per book, since the assessment is always merely an assessment and as such may in advance trigger different opinions on the correct assessment. Third indefinition. The revenue from VAT is a budgetary source rather than a resource that could be specifically added to the budget. And the fourth indefinition. The amendment does not take into account the feasibility of time. The budget proposals are drawn up well before the theoretically well-known majority of the funds collected from the book tax. It is said that before an assessment of the tax collection could even be made in the current year. I think that's why our non-amendment is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u249	You have already voted on this amendment, my dear colleagues, which you were in this assembly in the previous term, or on philosophy, about the concept of this amendment. You voted when you supported the dictatorship of the national programme for culture, which brought in the introduction of the so-called book fund. Now we have an agency, and the program has created a fund. The Fund was designed in such a way that it complied with this provision. In short, you voted on this in your previous term, those of you who were here - and you were in the opposition - otherwise the programme would not have been adopted. This is followed by a philosophy of then - minded thinking encouraged by the initiative and the will of the Writer Society to return to the book the money it receives from its sale. In short, the book tax will return the book. In some modulated way, this solution brings this amendment and only this amendment puts meat on the Agency's bones, which are very abstract. Only through this will the security of the book be ensured because it will not depend on the adoption of the budget, the possible will, the favor of a larger or smaller individual government of the book. Nor is it true, nor does it hold that we have no calculations on how much we collect taxes on the book at all. We do because we have a statistical office. And if Mr Horvat knows, and if there are - I apologize - if there are reports from 2005, the answers also exist from 2006 and state these sums. In short, the sums are recognizable, otherwise I don't understand what kind of country we would live in if we didn't know how much of some tax activity we're collecting and how to read and calculate them. Maybe they're hard to tell. As far as the tax is concerned. Let me remind you that this moment is an open debate in the European Union on the taxation of the whole system in the EU. And Slovenia, we have considered this on the EU Committee last week, has decided not to oppose or demand and meet the needs which, after so many years in the EU, have been recognized as urgent and could not once be enforced in order to join the EU as soon as possible. England has played the whole of Europe, has a zero rate, should not have it, and we are now applying other countries - if we want and some want - but the government as it will go to Brussels, obviously not.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u251	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to apologize to Mr Gaspari for having previously mentioned him in association with Mr Grims, of course, I thought of Mr Simoniti. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is an amendment that provides in fact the basis for this agency to actually work and that it will be able to plan its actions and also to allocate funds for a wide variety of purposes. By doubting the foundation, one can find it in the national programme of culture. Anyone who doubts that it is impossible to know how much VAT funds are collected then doubts Minister Simoniti, who you do not doubt at all. For every time we asked him why there is no fund for the book, Minister Simoniti argued that, for the purposes defined by this Fund, this agency also fully sums them up, provides and spends more resources than VAT collected. When we asked him how much VAT was collected, we also got this answer. So we have numbers on which this increase can be built after 20% of the year's growth after five years. It's all thought out. As far as the old discussion on the introduction of VAT is concerned - I did not want to talk about it because, contrary to the current minister, it was in some way too, then the bookkeepers opened this discussion, and the writers, and then the Ministry of Finance provided a large amount of additional funds to provide from the stocks of those books that were subsidized and needed by the libraries, purchases were made for all of Slovenia's [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] libraries. [[...]] This also led to some agreement to accept this and a debate started on how much funding is needed for subsidies. It followed the idea of a warehouse, then a book agency. This one needs funds, you're giving it up. That's the whole truth. When you're in [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You're against the opposition when you can decide. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? The application is being filed in a personal name. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will, of course, support this amendment of the opposition MPs, which was essentially created at the initiative of the Association of Slovenian Writers. As stated in Article 11 in the original version, the revenue of the book agency will depend on the ability of the Minister of Culture or on the will of the Government. So this agency's income for the book is going to be very fluctuating. With this solution, the Agency will obtain a permanent source of revenue, with the aim of increasing the tax collected annually by 20% of the previous year's book tax, thereby fully accounting for the Agency's revenue from the state budget within five years. It is said that we set up a system that would add 20% each year in the next five years. For all other resources in this article are very unstable or unreliable, for example, income derived from the sale of goods and services on the market, from sponsorship, donations, inheritances, gifts and, of course, other smaller revenues, as provided for in the regulations. If we do not accept this amendment, then this agency will have an unreliable source of income, and it can also happen that it will not be able to implement its programme, so I appeal to my respected colleagues and colleagues to support the amendments of the opposition group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. I think that this debate will be much more tangible for everyone if I read some numbers: 710 million was allocated to the book in 2001, I am also speaking in tolars that the numbers are comparable, 2002-730 million, 2003-750, 2004 billion 70, 2005 about a billion 100, 2006 billion 200, 2007 billion and the fourth and 2008 billion 360 million Slovenian tolars. On average, if we calculate the average of the previous and current terms of office, it was allocated to approximately 800 million per year in the previous term and in this mandate, taking into account the following year, since the budget is already here, about a billion 200 million per year, which means an increase by half. That is, when we talk about the book, we give it half as much as it was given in the last term. I hope the fellow who just said that when it comes to the book, we don't give it to her, at least it's a fair hiccup. These numbers are, of course, verifiable and anyone can be sure of them. But let me tell you another interesting piece of information. This year, after the available information, we were the country that granted the highest subsidy for the book, about €4,800. No other European country has given us anywhere near this number, which means that our positive attitude to the book is evident here and is clearly the policy that this coalition has toward the book. And that is what is true, not some legal provision which is flawed, as has already been highlighted here several times, and which, for this reason, would be very difficult to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u257	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment because it provides a stable source for the agency. I also find it hard to accept the argument that we don't know how much money there is, but because we don't know, we know it's too much. This is for Radio Yerevan, such an argument and certainly does not hold any judgment. The Slovenian Book is probably in a different position, such as books in other nations. We know how much market it has and that is probably why it needs to be subsidised and supported more cost-effectively. Whether that's enough or not, that's another thing, but obviously Slovenian writers and poets and playwrights don't live so well that they can give up any subsidies. This source would allow this agency to function normally, not to have any problems at all, but mainly that it does not depend on the good or bad will of the current government, the current minister. That is why I think it is good that we support this amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. Excuse me? Thank you. Mr. Slavko Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll support it myself. In doing so, I do not intend to change my mind, and I think it is clear to all of us that the proposal is such that it measures an exception to the system we know in this country. Slovenia has once benefited from such an exception. Let me remind us all that we used to build roads in this country with a tolar. Today, we are proud to have built them. If, ladies and gentlemen, we decided today to consolidate our path through the spirit realms, we will probably be just as proud in a decade or two. You could be proud of that, too, by the Minister of Finance, who could give way just as any other minister could when we decided to do so. At that time, he would have to exercise less when he is preparing answers for some of our colleagues, in which we hear on the one hand that they do not know how much money is collected from this purpose, and on the other hand they know that there is certainly more to the book than is collected. Some of this exercise would have been saved. I would like them very much to have this exception to Slovenia, because it is a whole set of books, for the whole field of spirit in this country - let us afford it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u261	In the field of publishing and librarying, this is said to be literature, there are 16 million 240 000 euros in 2008 and 15,500 in 2009. That's 15 million, which is significantly less than I've already warned you today when I said that the Minister cares about his mandate, not the mandate he'll leave to someone else. I'm sure it will, but in that year, funds don't go up. In such a case, such an amendment would offer some assurance that continuity - not only in the field of publishing, which covers culture, but also in science - is stabilised. At the same time, there is no planned project to build the NUK, with which you seemed to wave widely before you came here. And there is no investment, but there are investments in the airport museum in another museum that is supposed to be supported, even though they are not in any programme and in the project of priority projects. In a similar way, you gave up those parading, if we call it, to some stimuli that would provide security when it came to the Film Fund, which is also supposed to be fueled by its activities that are supposed to return to the film. In short, you're giving up those projects that you once advocated, and today you're voting against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Let me warn you that there will be no disagreement, there has already been an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. And I think that Mr Školč has also explained on behalf of the Group of Members as well as others. Now there's an explanation in his own name. As long as they are logged in, you can log in more than once if you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u263	You've already taken half my time. But, gentlemen, if you can listen to your confidants, it is said, Mr Grims and Mr Simoniti, and you believe in the word, then you must listen, and you do not have to trust your opposition colleagues. I will support this complement, not just because it will allow the Ministry of Culture to get rid of work and worry and have a more regular supply. In doing so, you must think that this agency will also finance a lot of literature for the needs of schools and that publications will also be financed from this agency for the purpose of promoting science. This is certainly the broad field in which I find it completely unreasonable that you are so stubbornly rejecting the opportunities offered and for which we have the basis in the already accepted document I spoke about earlier. I have never seen a policy so systematically reject the possibility of supporting progress in science, education and culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Because I can see they're still debaters, I'm opening a new ring of applications. Mr. Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, on behalf of our Group of Members, it has already been said that we will not support this amendment and, of course, I will vote on my own. On this occasion, however, I would like to remind you of one thing, since I have been a member of this National Assembly for a long time. It's interesting, in fact, the real paradox, the situation just turned around. When we were in the opposition, we proposed an amendment on one such debate to ensure that the books were VAT-free. At that time, gentlemen, who are in the opposition today, with arguments that this cannot be, you objected. And you, Mr Školč, were once a cultural minister, then you were a post-member, what you are today, neither as a cultural minister nor as a post-member in the previous term, when you had a two-thirds majority, did you apply. Today, when we have a completely different VAT accounting system, you defend exactly the opposite and say what you did not want to apply, not because it is impossible to assess what the VAT rate is when the entry and exit VAT can be charged and some can, if they have such a management system, also [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] different representations. [[...]] So this is simply not possible in this way and this is also what the finance ministry has said and I think it is not necessary here, colleague Školč, to attack the finance minister for a position which is absolutely correct and has already been explained here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that this is an explanation of vote before the vote under Article 11 or the amendment. So much so that we can remember what we're talking about. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u267	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support the amendment to Article 11 as I would support the first amendment to Article 6 if I were in the Chamber at that time. I do not support the book only at the principle level, nor do I belong among those who would be bad book buyers, because it seems to me that even if we buy the book ourselves, not only by borrowing it from the library, we will do something for the Slovenian book. I am surprised that some cannot forget the past and the missed opportunities to be revived again and again. If we have never done anything right, then at least when a new opportunity arises. However, as regards the indication of the various absolute figures on how much the book was intended for a period of time, other financial indicators should, of course, be taken into account and the correct information given as to how much of the gross domestic product was actually intended for the book during what period. Especially because we're used to the coalition listening to different calculations when it comes to, for example, RTV subscription, it's supposed to be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] lowers at the same number, but when it comes to social transfers, do not decrease at the same number - this is how coalition representatives provide. [[...]] Let's at least be as consistent as we can be. Of course, our book deserves our concern, especially that it comes with special concern for beauty, original Slovenian beauty and science [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The thought, and the translation. [[...]] This is also due to the resolution on the national language policy programme, what to do and how to raise funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u269	Thank you. I will support this amendment for very rational reasons. One of these is that it does not appear to be the hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union would try to achieve the possibility that the book tax would be reduced to at least 6%, if not less than in Belgium, where they have zero newspaper tax and 6% of value added tax on books. I could take a step further and propose a zero tax, but she did not. It is said that the book should be provided with funds on a second basis, for example in this particular case, by gradually transferring the entire tax collected from the sale of books to the book agency. I think that the excuses that nothing had been made before for the book tax to be null and void, and that it makes no sense, in any other way, to provide additional funds for the issue of books, is, of course, an empty waste. Why do I say that? As a result, in the three years when the capital gains tax was even reduced, they could then also reduce the book tax at the same time as the capital gains tax was reduced. This tax, which we reduced to capital gains, was interesting to even get it from the current president in his presidential campaign. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Republic of France, Mr Sarkozy. And I don't think you'd be able to tell us the change in value added tax for the book to zero tax. So this amendment needs to be supported to find at least another way to ensure [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u270	Thank you. I'm opening a new circle. Mr. Mitja Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support this amendment, and I come from one fact. The book isn't just novels, poetry collections, it's a lot more. And maybe sometimes we forget about it. The book is also a textbook; it is also a scientific work. And in this area, it is even more important in the field of education that the book gets a special status, that the textbooks that our students and students use get a special status, and that they also have guaranteed co-financing in such a way that they will not be subject to the full budget, but that they will be subject to what will enable educated people to fill this budget with their work in other areas. It is precisely because of this amendment that I support, that I want to make as much money available to this fund as possible and that we can develop everything, and in particular all kinds of books, textbooks for which I am now somehow committed, not least because free education, which is so much talk about, is going to be a little less free or those who have to buy books are really going to be less expensive. Finally, let me just remind a colleague who was here earlier, that the former Minister, then a Member, in the national programme of culture, has returned the VAT money back to the book, and that was then accepted, I don't know why we are taking it now. And it would be right, of course, that some of the standards that have already been achieved remain, but not that we are now reducing and violating them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. Only one comment on the negotiation of value added tax relief within the European Union. I don't think it's fair for this government to take the blame if she doesn't go and negotiate for it yet. We know that there is a situation here, which is the result of the negotiations of the previous government, which had the opportunity to negotiate this exemption when we entered the European Union, and it has not done so. I think it's very unfair, now that this situation is so underway, that this temporary regime is to report to this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted for 32 votes to 41. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour and 53 in favour against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act in the framework of the regular procedure. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, no third reading amendments can be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the law on public funds, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public funds is not suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the Group of Members, report. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party is that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. Let me point out once again that this decision, which is proposed to the National Assembly by the home financial committee, is based on the opinion of the Government which it forwarded to this law. I would like to point out once again that the opinion of the Government is indeed wrong; especially to the municipalities, because it accuses them that if they define building land in their planning acts and then municipally equip them and then sell them on the market, it is an unfair or non-transparent financing of municipalities. Such an opinion is really very offensive, I can say, to the municipalities, because it is their basic source, one of the most important sources of funding. At the same time, however, the Government considers that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not invest a single euro in not saying a cent in municipal furnishing of building land, can sell these land peacefully on the market. On this occasion, I would just like to introduce you to the 2006 report of the Supervisory Committee, where the Supervisory Committee notes the following. The volume of sales of buildings is mainly due to the interest of the municipalities needed for the construction of commercial and industrial zones. Thus, municipalities from the country, from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests at the price of building land buy land to build craft zones and industrial zones. Really very inappropriate, incorrect opinion of the Government to this law, and if I can only add to this the role of the Consulting and Management Society - see, this company obviously has very large assets. This year alone, he wants to invest EUR 50 million for the needs of the Ministry of Interior and the General Police Administration. The Ministry of Education and Sport has also purchased a EUR 25 million facility, but the funds that the Government gives to this company for advice and management are the resources of those buildings that are in individual municipalities. And why don't this property stay where it's created, but not centralized, comes into the consulting and management society and then decides, as the government obviously suggests. I therefore propose that you, however, also take into account the development needs of the municipalities and reject the proposal for a decision proposed by the home committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 25. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held assets under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following: The proposal for a law on the completion of the procedures for the return of held property is appropriate for further consideration. On behalf of the Group of Members, applications shall be made. Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Our Group believes that the National Assembly should not adopt this proposal for a law. The government is proposing a law without telling us that it is instituting new beneficiaries to introduce new legal remedies that will be able to guarantee new rights, to deal with some issues in return, especially with regard to the ownership of plots on which there have been constructions, regarding the new possibilities of obtaining the right to denationalisation on the basis of citizenship and many other issues. And another, which is equally important: The Government has two different criteria; when it comes to the injustices that the Slovenian authorities have caused, in many ways, to the law on denationalisation, the issue of the return of material damage to participants in World War II or the rights not acquired by tenants in denationalised apartments is the Government's view that these rights are not to be regulated. When it comes to denationalising beneficiaries, the view is that they need to be regulated not only in accordance with the law, but by the kind of application of the law; by such application of the law, to speed up all procedures, to influence administrative workers and also to try to influence justice - I hope that the minister is right when he says that this influence will not at least be ensured - that not only procedures are formally accelerated but also the substantive matters are unilaterally resolved. The government has already, by amending the State Defence Act, ensured that ministries are the right policy, the one that says what procedures will lead to the return of held assets. A lawyer as a state attorney has no right of his own [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] an assessment of when it is justified to file a legal remedy, when return is justified in nature and when such conditions are not available. [[...]] I therefore remind the State to reconsider before deciding on such a procedure. All of this is the content of this law. Right are those who say, "It is necessary to denationalise, but legally and wisely, not by asserting the unilateral interests of the Government." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u281	Thank you very much. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the law, of course, does not answer all the many questions raised by denationalisation, we oppose. It is on the one hand that old injustices are being corrected with new injustices at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers and a story of the past, the story of our grandfathers, will obviously be paid by our children and our grandchildren. Of course, we are opposed to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u282	Mr. Bogdan Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian national party - I will use the term again - will not participate in such cow deals. I predict obstruction on the basis of, I think, Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u284	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed decision that the draft law is suitable for further consideration. The proposed law eliminates the current duality of denationalisation procedures, both under the law on denationalisation and under the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. With the solutions proposed, it removes the legal uncertainty and shortcomings so far and provides the basis for denationalisation procedures to be completed as soon as possible, to remove legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures and to ensure the right of decision-making within the appropriate time frame. The Constitutional Court has also repeatedly drawn attention to too slow procedures and called on the State authorities to solve open cases more quickly. It also pointed out that delays resulted in high costs for both debtors and beneficiaries, especially for the country. The Constitutional Court has specifically pointed out that failure to complete denationalisation threatens the rule of law. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that Slovenia is a rule of law country, still with certain child problems, which is certainly an unfinished denationalisation. This cannot be an honour for Slovenia, since it is beginning to chair the European Union on 1 January, which does not know nationalisation. In our parliamentary group, we do not separate denationalisation beneficiaries, as the opposition has repeatedly said in the general debate today. For us, all beneficiaries are equal before the Constitution and the law. We stand firm for the principle that ownership is a constitutional category and that it must be returned to owners if it has been seized and nationalised. Prolonging the adoption of legal supplements that will enable the completion of denationalisation means that Slovenia is a group of non-European developed countries where the rule of law is not respected. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposed decision, and we will also support any improvements in further consideration with a view to achieving majority support for the proposed law in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mrs. Zalokar Orzmova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u287	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this law, because the law has been brought to the National Assembly and proposed to it by a minister, whom I believe, earlier than the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and earlier as the executor of the interests of our country, is more in the position that we all know that he, who sometimes also has some very controversial connotations, is more of a Maltese knight. I believe that the law is prepared in such a way that it will first and foremost realize these matters and interests. I was alone for years, and I watched millions and millions of tolars point to accounts abroad, as we directed millions of tolars to people who didn't know the Slovenian word anymore, whose money didn't improve and spent and spent in Slovenia, but went elsewhere. However, many of our citizens regret this law and regrettably have not been corrected and are still waiting for it, and I think that the law is not ready now to be made in the function of these interests, but especially the interests that must be defended by the minister, who is the Maltese knight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u289	In New Slovenia we will support the proposal of the law, and I myself support this solution, which will try, I hope, to successfully end the 16-year-old agony. It is a simple question of whether we are a legal country or not. Whether we are a state that respects the principle of righteousness is to return what has been forcibly taken away. And I don't think there can really be a question for any of us here whether it's right or wrong, regardless of who the owner was and how much property he had, he has the right to get it back. And this is the basic starting point for supporting the proposal. Especially in this spirit, that this controversial dilemma, which divides the Slovenians into those who feel that no injustices have ever been committed or that these injustices need not be rectified by an excuse if we do not commit new injustices. I think that after 16 years, everything necessary could be prepared so that no new injustices could be done, but unfortunately, the previous governments have not allowed this to happen. I think it is a moral, ethical, and above all the government's national duty to try to end this process, but we can start to build a common future without these backdrops that only hinder us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I believe and hope that this decision, that the law is an appropriate basis, will not be adopted. That is why I have remained in the Chamber, and that is why I will also vote against those who share the same opinion - and I hope that this opinion is shared by all those who do not wish to continue disputes that have dragged on for more than a decade - that there are more than half of them. In short, I will vote against this marriage, counting on it to end its path quickly, or I fear that in the second and third readings we will also be accompanying the adoption of this law from the balcony.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I do not support laws that bring bad and, above all, incomprehensible solutions. I agree with the finding of one of my intercessors, who said that this Slovenian law is shared. Undoubtedly, share with those who will be paid and those who will pay for it for a long time. However, of course, I do not support the law because I specifically asked the Minister twice, but I also ask him for the third time, whether the State, the Ministry and the courts will obtain lists of foreign nationals who have already been paid by Germany since the war, foreign nationals, and now they are re-investing these requests with us; and whether it will be checked whether those who have had their lands and land before the war under the mortgage will get money and loan for this, and now these matters require a return on whether they will get the story paid off. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u295	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this law or I do not think it is appropriate for further consideration, for at first sight it brings new injustices. If old injustices are being corrected by new injustices, I don't know what we're getting at. At the same time, there is another conflict that is completely unnecessary and unproductive. Splitting the Slovenians, you say. Yes, we have also heard in the debate that those who will not be for this law, that we are xenophobic. In a way, however, it is something that we naturally object to for foreigners to gain wealth. We are against the fact that a foreign country, a foreign community, comes to an unearned asset. That's for sure. Mr Minister, as is his custom, once again with his ability to play chess, he overplayed, of course, not only the works of the opposition, but especially the coalition. It's about the old game, it's about going around everything that's normal, going through the constitution, going around this country and giving something else. That's understandable. We have heard before that he is Maltese and, of course, he must act as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u296	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit. Mr. Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Not alone, not my colleagues, we will not support this law, because it is "twilight" that the employees in the administrative units and all those who are supposed to carry out and solve the denationalisation applications did not want to do them. And if so, I don't know what the minister's been doing for three years of this mandate, that he didn't affect these people to do his job. I also do not believe that these people did not want to work, because I do not know that any chief of the administrative unit would have been dismissed for criminal reasons before the time of his duty on the non-execution of the denationalisation law. However, I must say that our congregation of Trebnje was a year and a day away from blocking its account because of some premature denationalisation, which threw tens of millions into the arms of someone who was not supposed to receive them, and then because of the excessiveness of things, it could never recover it back, but it had to pay that money back in the first swing at the quickly resolved matters. I also have to say that I understand this law myself. As the procedures of those who have not submitted their applications are not resolved in accordance with their expectations, the law will speed this up, whether or not it is necessary to return. On the contrary, I am still convinced that these claims are being brought about by unjustified applications and unproven entitlements to the matter itself. From this point of view, the law is unacceptable to all other shortcomings of the law and cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll vote against the law. It is not a question of whether we are a rule of law. It's another question. It is a question of whether we, as legislators, are so bold that we are prepared to use and abuse our legislator's role to write a law that directly violates the legal system and the legal framework of this country, procedural and other to protect a group, an institution, people to the detriment of the majority of the population. That's what this is about, the ones that you've been able to read the articles at all, and if you've been able to understand them at all. It is a question of whether this National Assembly is capable, bold, of telling the world that it is decent and daring to adopt revolutionary legislation. It is about whether this National Assembly is capable of enacting laws in a manner and content such as were adopted in 1945 and so on. If you're capable of doing this, I'll vote no.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. I think it was just one very important, but at the same time a very sad moment for this National Assembly. For not only one but several members of the opposition said they would vote against the law for this reason, I quote, "because it was proposed by someone who is a Maltese knight". Yes, I'm sorry, on the one hand, thank you for spreading yourself in all your misery, but on the other hand this does not belong in this House. What does that have to do with anything? It is necessary to look at the content of the law, to look at the solutions it brings, the matter it regulates, not at the handover. This was an explicit definition, it doesn't matter what the content is, it's important who proposes it, and it's a pure netting, a hate speech of cultural struggle. "I don't respect the interlocutor, because he is a Maltese knight, and at the same time I will vote against him, because..." You know, we're gonna play prejudice and so on, just like we always do. This is the content that has been repeated several times in this National Assembly and is so inappropriate and so non-European and so unethical and so undemocratic that it is simply unimaginable. People of God, do you even know that you are in the European Union, that you are in relation to NATO and that you are Members and represent the entire people here? At the same time, there is also a great deal of swindling. When it came to theirs, they quickly arranged it, the process of denationalisation for some of the Februarys of the time, as the present Pahors then said, I think, at the time, the so-called ZKS, the SDP, during that period, were incredibly quick to obtain the resolved procedures. Like the then Prime Minister in the shadows. You all know that he had extremely quickly resolved relatively large denationalisation procedures, and some others have been dragging this incredibly long. And now someone convinces me it's a coincidence. Therefore, this law is worthy of support because denationalisation is something that the entire democratic world expects of us, if there is injustice, it is necessary [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Check-in is on. Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. While I am convinced that those who oppose us are doing one of Sisyphus’s work and that there will be no benefit from doing so. However, I must say that this denationalisation took place under the law adopted in November 1991. And so abominable a law like this is rarely any law adopted by this National Assembly. It operated mainly on agricultural and forestry land and with various facilities. He was so set up that, in the most ideal case, he ran the procedure for five to six years. It means that the law was basically wrong and that is why the procedures went so far as to enact a law that we are now correcting these madnesses that were recorded in that law. I myself had the opportunity to cross the paths that this law had drawn and to say, just in case those chairs were numerous parcels that had been nationalized and then were returned in nature exactly where they had been, but in between there were different procedures when those parcels were gone, for years procedures had run out that everyone had really gotten their parcel back that was not his. Formally, he couldn't get to her, nothing. That marriage was one simple madness, the incompetence of those who did it, and it was done by DEMOS's authority. And today we are correcting what was wrong at the time. And I'm not going to support such a senseless correction today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u305	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to remind you once again that this is not a denationalisation law. The law on denationalisation was adopted in 1991, as colleague Juban said. And it is strange for the rule of law that after sixteen years we have not yet completed these procedures. And the Justice Minister is in charge of monitoring in the government. He's in charge of closing these proceedings. I'm very upset that you say it all over again, every time it happens again, that he's a Maltese knight, etc., and no one says that Dr. Sturm was also a constitutional judge. That's what you always forget to say. And that, as a constitutional judge, even as President of the Constitutional Court, he sees from this perspective the rule of law of the State, Mrs Beblereva. On 30.6.2007 you received all the report, 936 denationalisation applications were not completed. Of this, more than half from agricultural land and forests. Where are the reasons why those lands and forests did not come back, but when there is a law-formal law and procedures to end it? I think that this bill, which is being tabled, needs to be supported, but not that we are engaged here in a purely ideological manner in such an area, and for purely ideological reasons we are opposed to this legal system in this country being enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u307	Thank you. The law cannot be followed for reasons that the Government has stated between its objectives and its principles that the law on the return procedure of the held property must not extend the circle of beneficiaries, nor must it create new obligations for the debtors, in particular for the State. Therefore, the proposer should draw up a text of the law which will follow these objectives and these proposals and principles, as he set out when he reasoned on this law. In fact, the articles do not follow this. There is a wide range of beneficiaries, financial liabilities will arise and the state thinks only of the financial obligations of the State, and it consistently forgets the financial obligations of the municipalities, which will also be liable to pay compensation to beneficiaries. This is a lot of open questions, and the text really deviates significantly from what should be objectives and principles. And that is why I will not support this law, and I expect the Government to prepare one such as it has written down to put it into its objectives and principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u309	Thank you so much for saying that. What, though, does the law say that some people object to? It simply speaks of allowing the return of held assets to all those who already comply with and are entitled to do so after the rules in force. And I can't understand how some of you can argue that these people who are entitled to return are not allowed to do so. We are talking about procedures that have already taken a substantial longer period than the 1991 Denationalisation Act itself has foreseen, so procedures have been under way for 16 years to speed up and complete as quickly as possible. Some in the National Assembly support this in order to enforce the entitlement that has been going on under the long-standing conditions laid down in the laws in force, some of you object to this; you want this entitlement, which some have been going on under the rules in force, to move indefinitely. I just can't understand that some people can look at this thing that way. This is completely unreasonable for me. I think it's also incomprehensible for a democratic world. That is why I will also support the law that we are considering and which we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u311	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I wonder, even though I did not intend to speak about this law at all, because it simply does not seem to me to be worth the words for such a fundamental right, for the human right to be resolved within a reasonable time and that it is respected that someone was the owner or his descendants and that this property is returned. Where's the compensation for everything that was lost, where's what those people were hurt when that property took away from them? However, the law of 16 years ago certainly protects the current owners, the social owners who acquired this property owned by them. The 19th Article, which is played and interpreted by the committees in administrative units in one way or another, and also in cases where the matter is completely logical and should be returned, is not returned, since this article allows for interpretation in a way that does not mean that the current owner, the current owner of this property, which was once seized, is significantly affected. I'm surprised those here in the hall who got it back, and they sold it for big money. And they're quiet. We have cases like this. But I will give an example of someone who was taken away from him by this property, the Krumperk castle in Domžal, a man who did not leave the printing plant in Maribor to the Germans during the war. He was deported after the war. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u312	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u313	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this bill alone, nor in this first reading, because I oppose that we should change and introduce new substantive criteria into the law just before the process is concluded. I also object to the fact that the law introduces inequality before the law, that it undermines confidence in the law, that it degrades the rule of law, whether you want to believe it or not, and introduces the possibility of restoring the procedures already completed legally. The law is clearly prepared "a la carte", by order, for very specific entities, which are also expected to acquire what is not justified by the law in force. Of course, we take into account the fact that this law has been prepared by a judge of the Constitutional Court, since we are well aware of what, as a judge, a certain decision of the Constitutional Court has been written by a judge as it has been. And that decision, you know, dear colleagues and colleagues, was not intended for the so-called little man and to correct his injustices, but precisely to the institution of civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I will not support the law, for I do not think it will contribute to the elimination of injustices, but it will cause more injustice. According to military assets, people's assets were nationalized. Some, because they had much because they had too much for the system at the time, had more than was acceptable for the arrangements and system at the time, while others were deprived not only because they had much because they had more than was acceptable, but also because it was also a judicial penalty for interwar cooperation with the occupying party. And that's the kind of thing that drags around the longest. Now this law wishes, this law will allow the property to be returned not only to those who are entitled to it, who were taken only because they had too much, but also to those to whom it was taken because they had cooperated with the invader during the war. And it's not just about the property being returned, it's not just about getting their possessions, it's about something more important. It's a symbolic level, it's about getting them with this "de facto" pardon, that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] their trial, their punishment will be destroyed and thus, at the symbolic level of "de facto" to the employees of the occupying forces, we recognize that they have not done so, in some way, the law wants to wash the guilt, the cooperation during the war. [[...]] And of course I don't want to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. Look, I just don't understand what's going to happen to denationalization. That's all I'm gonna say, all those of you who are actually filled with the mouth of a desire for justice, honesty, the rule of law and so on, are now against this bill. I ask you where those compensations for the mental suffering of those people who were deprived of their property, who were actually deprived of everything they created and all the living conditions, have fallen to the bottom. Where are those real damages, 100%? You have to be aware, I am responsible for claiming that refunds, except for possible land exchange, all the other compensations are about 30% of the real value. You should be aware of that. And there are many who have been deprived of property that would only want comfort or recognition that their assets have been taken into force and that this is why [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] have also become psychological, psychological patients. [[...]] I think we should finally fix this shame once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u319	Of course, I will not vote for this law alone. I've told you before in the debate. I believe that it is not appropriate for further consideration and that the Minister, who has prepared it together with the supposed greatest experts in this area, should be required to amend the law by actually achieving the objectives of the material we have received for consideration: that is to say, it will not extend the circle of beneficiaries. Article 2 and Article 3 extend the circle of beneficiaries so that even the possibility is given to reopen claims for the recovery of the seized property on the basis of amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. And there's something else. In view of the fact that in many cases we find that the property that has been returned is very poorly managed by it and that, in such a highly-sung fair and property respectable to the European Union in the 15 old Member States, the State is simply taking away the assets that are poorly controlled by it. I think there should be a word about that. And not to mention what happened to forests at the time of denationalisation, especially those forests that had already been paid to a certain legal entity in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] Then he re-applied as a beneficiary and returned some of the most beautiful forests, which were truly well-maintained in the past 50 years. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I think it's just Mr. Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Today, when I listened to these discussions, I have to say that I got a feeling like we were in 1947, then we moved a little bit into 1958, then we got to 1968, at the end of 1991. But look, we're in 2007. In 2007, we are talking about a law that is supposed to complete the procedures initiated by the 1991 law. This means 16 years of implementation of the law, which should be concluded within one year. And now, if we don't believe in ourselves, the right politicians, then let's listen to at least those who tell us, and this is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly, for the first time, five years since the implementation of the law and then every year has warned that each year the postponement, completion of this process is causing new damage. We know why. We are talking about the need to complete these procedures, and that is all. For this reason, it is very difficult to understand this perverse logic that the problem is that one who wants someone whose car has been taken away from him by some illegal revolutionary act. The problem is the one who wants this car back, not the one who did some stupid thing and is then publicly sanctioned and muddy. So I think that policy at the threshold of the third millennium, and also this policy in this National Assembly, must start dealing with other things and face opinions on other substantive issues, how and how we will move into the next decade and millennium. I think it is right that we conclude these procedures, which is why I will support this proposal for a decision, because I believe that the procedure launched 16 years ago must be brought to an end as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted 41 to 28. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Mr. Mag. Genius. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In any event, I would like to suggest that the meeting of the National Assembly be adjourned at 20.00 and that the Council of State continue to do so if the transport is provided to me because I will miss the last train if the meeting continues. It is impossible to accept the possibility that I should walk to Trebnje, that is, 50 kilometers away, or that because this will not happen, he would not be involved in the vote I wish to take. In fact, there are only two options: that the National Assembly provide me with transportation because the public will no longer be, or that the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended. That's what I want an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u324	I'm asking for peace. Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich. I will refer your procedural question to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. We're voting on the law. 68 Members and Members voted for 64 against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. It's a day-to-day thing, man-to-day love stuff. I'd like to ask you to cooperate, because we still have a lot of work ahead of us. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of five judges of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, five motions of the Judicial Council for election in judicial office, a proposal by the Government of Slovenia to dismiss the appointment of members of the Council of the Agricultural Land and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal to amend the decision on the composition and implementation of the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized wheeled vehicles 8x8 due to suspicion that the transaction was politically agreed, operated in a non-transparent manner and that the presence of clienteleism and corruption, and for the establishment of a direct period of public arms, and to a direct act. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing a Council for Broadcasting, a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the Council for Electronic Communications, a decision establishing the termination of functions, a proposal for a decision appointing the Vice-Presidents of the Staff of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to supervise the intelligence and security services and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Prevention of Corruption Act. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter dated 12 October 2007, the President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the National Assembly that Dr. Mile Dolenc, Dr. Dunjo Jadek Pensa and Mag. Miroslav Mozetič, mag. Sailor Sovdat and mag. Kristino Ozbolt. The proposals were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u325	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. The National Assembly is ahead of a difficult and sensitive task, as it must decide and decide on five candidates for a Constitutional Judge. This is the replacement of more than half of the composition of the Constitutional Court, just prior to the expiry of the proposed term of office, this is the President of the Republic, Dr Janez Drnovska. He was certainly the President of the Republic before the difficult and difficult task of finding and proposing suitable candidates. But it's no easier than the task of the National Assembly. We are all aware of the importance of the role of the Constitutional Branch of the judiciary and of the importance of our decision. In recent cases, the approach of the President of the Republic to finding human resources solutions for the most important functions in the country has been very different. We could say he's taken a lot of different tactics. For example, on the basis of the call made by the two candidates, the Governor of Magi proposed, without speaking to the candidates who had been registered. Gasparium. When he did not receive support, he took over another candidate, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, and proposed an undeclared vice-governor Rant. This indicated that the President of the Republic wanted to propose a candidate from the Bank of Slovenia's most recent leadership. Even when the latter did not receive sufficient support from Members, the President of the Republic only chose between a few monetary and financial experts. It must be admitted that he chose well. And Dr. Kranjec, a serious and pervasive, received very strong support from Members in the secret ballot. It is also obvious that it was also an excellent choice and that Dr. Kranjec was very sovereign in his role as governor. We've also chosen a constitutional judge this year. Instead of Dr. Dragica Vedam Lukič, we elected Prof. Dr. Frantz Grad. It is interesting that in this case there was also an invitation to tender, or a public invitation, to which three candidates: Miroslav Mozetič, Borut Strastišar and Jan Zobbek applied. However, the President of the Republic did not propose any of them. Despite the concerns of some Members from some of the parliamentary groups, his proposed candidate, Dr Grad, received very high support. This time, although there are five proposals for constitutional judges, the President of the Republic has chosen exclusively from among the candidates applied for the invitation to tender. In the SDS Group, we believe that the President has significantly more manoeuvre space at his disposal than he has taken advantage of in this case, even if we take into account the practice that the President of the Republic has taken so far. In our Group of Members, we believe that he has not already chosen and proposed the best candidates. In accordance with his current practice of finding candidates for the highest functions, we believe that it would be appropriate for him to remain faithful and look a little over or around this time, and to find or address other candidates. Many who would be more suitable for a candidate for a constitutional judge than those who have been reported may not have reported themselves this time because of the practice or practice of the President of the Republic so far, since the tenders had no weight. Recognized professors and other legal experts may have estimated that there is no point in applying, since the President of the Republic decides on other criteria. They were most likely expected to be sufficiently noticed because of their work and achievements, so they could also expect to be invited by the President of the Republic to talk about the candidacy, but this probably did not happen and were not invited to the talks. This is a shame because we know that Slovenia still has several top legal experts from various fields to deserve an invitation to apply for a constitutional judge. And if we made a decision, some would be happy to support it. In the parliamentary group, we thought about what to do. We also had a lot of time to tell the truth, because the President of the Republic has moved the proposal to the Parliament from September to October, that the whole proposal has somehow been rounded up. I must say that we have not taken any decisions in the parliamentary group in a long time; we finally decided to support a maximum of two candidates, but only Miroslav Mozetič, who has been registered for the invitation in the spring, has unanimous support for the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Kumer on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I must apologize for not speaking on my own behalf on behalf of the Group of Members on the way in which the President of the State is recruited for these highest functions, because I do not have this authority, and I will only talk about the choice and proposal of candidates for the Constitutional Judges that we have today on the table. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal of the President of the State to elect five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, aware that he has indeed had a difficult job in this case, when he has only chosen among those who have applied for a public invitation. Apparently, the President of the Republic took the criticism too seriously when he took advantage of the possibility that he could choose beyond the circle of applicants, which he did in two cases in the past. We also support the direction in the choice followed by the fact that the representation of both sexes. However, we would be even more pleased with the human resources proposal if there were any other candidates or candidates from academic university types between candidates and candidates. The Group supports the proposal made by the President of the country, but I will be very interested in monitoring the outcome of this vote, given that I am a member of the Commission on Mandate-Electorial Affairs, where the clarification or non-explanatory vote has been extremely interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Previously, someone in this room was wondering if we might be in 1947. When we decided on the book that the spirit of 1600, 1603, prevailed in this hall when the most Slovenian books were burned. When I look forward to this decision, where everyone will be spared telling the public how to vote, I am concerned that it may not prove that we are actually living in 1945. That only those who are ours have a chance, not those who are good. If we're lucky, those are ours. If I speak on behalf of the Group of Members also for those whom you consider to be yours, we do not think they are bad. Therefore, our Group did not have a serious objection to any of these candidates, and we would certainly like to see anyone else on this ballot. Unlike this click, which now reigns in Slovenia, we understand the constitutional position of the President in that he is obliged by his conscience and through trade with customers to propose people who will perform their duties independently in the Constitutional Court. It is no coincidence that the Constitutional Court is a special court with special powers and has its own defined position. This is not a coincidence, I assure you, because I was among those people who participated in adopting this constitution and considering how this must be done. Nor is it a coincidence that the appointment of Constitutional Judges was not left to the party trade, but that this was placed in the hands of someone who must receive the majority of the votes in the general elections. Therefore, through this vote, we not only communicate what we think of the candidates, but also how we understand the President's position in this country. Perhaps someone thinks that if he has his President, that his President will be able to serve him, as in all other areas, including the Constitutional Judges. That's really wrong. This leads to a complete disintegration of modern democratic society. And to remind you, and to conclude that in 1603, the spiritual father was above all these expanses where we live, Pope Borgess.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath in the name of the messenger - no, you give up. Mrs Majda Shirca on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u331	We supported the proposal of the President of the State for the appointment of new constitutional judges immediately, not automatically, but also by listening and explaining why he has decided on the candidates he is proposing to us. It takes into account the principle of completing that quota, those areas which are defective or which will be reduced at the time of emptying and which have already been proposed by the President of the Constitutional Court. It also takes into account the principle of gender equality and takes into account the balance between covering those needs of the Constitutional Court that will arise. We had no doubts, we supported the proposal, there will be no figs in the pocket, so we believe and wish that this will of the President of the country would be done to the end as he wished.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u332	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Among the candidates, Mr Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u333	Thank you very much, President. Now, according to the old and tested practice, Dr. Drnovšek is also proposing good candidates this time. I will support all five of them myself, because I am aware that the sun, of course, is shining not only for someone, but that the matter must, of course, be easily balanced and I think that this proposal is just as it should be. The Constitutional Judge should depend primarily on his conscience and constitution. In our National Assembly, however, we obviously want him to be dependent and political. The proposed scheme is interesting and has no doubt a deeper dimension. These candidates are proposed by the President of the State, who is directly and directly elected, and this is said to enjoy the great trust of citizens and citizens and, finally, to his reflection, we are also sealing directly elected Members of the National Assembly. Even if we look at history, those proposals made by the President of the country, who may not have seemed to be the most good or pleasant, and in such matters as the election of the President of the country, they are of great importance. Mr Gaspari obviously enjoys a lot of sympathy from the citizens and citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u335	Thank you very much. I must admit that the proposal submitted by Mr Drnovšek to the National Assembly I do not know very well, except for former colleague Mozetič. And on the basis of the comments made by the parliamentary groups following the transmission of this proposal, as well as the results of the vote on the Mandate-Election Commission, I have no shame that I would not support this proposal. In the meantime, I thought that maybe some of the members of the Slovenian People's Party, the National Party, also thought that Nova Slovenija, mentioned the name of one prominent lawyer, a judge who often appears on this scene and that there is a mistake that he is not in the choice. However, it seems to me that two days ago, when the President of the Government informed the public that there was a power centre in the court from the background where this distinguished expert was also supposed to belong, I have no further regret at this time not to support this list proposed by the President of the State, Drnovšek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch. On behalf of the motioner, perhaps you'd like Mrs. Truck?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I would like to thank those who believe that this is an important decision to change a large number of constitutional judges. For this reason, I have a duty to clarify once again that the way in which the President formulated his proposals can be one or the other. But what's important is that it's legal. And this time, too, the proposal was prepared in a legal way. It seems that it is never right to pay attention to those who have applied for the invitation to tender or to choose outside the invitation to tender. However, it is important to apply for the invitation to tender and to have the quality, the professional quality of the people. Let me reiterate that on the first call for three candidates for constitutional judges, there have been as many as 12 good candidates. Eleven candidates took part in the second call for one candidate. And on the third call for one candidate, there were six candidates. So in such a number of choices, in proposals coming from different sides, with people who have had different experiences, but have different experiences, it is still possible to understand that the President did not go beyond this large circle of people who have been reported. If you don't mind, that's my guess, because experience in some other candidates has shown that there's not much to promise such candidates. The election of the President is certainly based on a high level of expertise. If you have looked at the explanations and if you have perhaps, I do not know, you have taken the time to do so in the parliamentary groups to get to know five candidates in more detail than once was the custom in some other candidates, then you have to find that everyone has almost three decades of experience, and this in important positions. Secondly, what you can see is that their expertise is in various fields. You will also recall the public opinions and opinions of the current President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Janez Čebul, who has repeatedly stressed the need to pay attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court will be built so that constitutional judges can address problems in various areas. Finally, in the year of the same opportunities as in 2007, the President also paid attention to the need to maintain gender equality, did not change it, five to four, still in favour of men, remains now. On something, however, the President of the Republic of Slovenia certainly did not pay attention in preparing this proposal and did not want to be. And that is, to any political balance. The one who wrote himself down to the court must have done so on an official basis. The rule of law is the country where the judiciary is independent. And elsewhere than in the highest state authority, such as the Constitutional Court, it must be the rule. We believe that the proposal is very professionally prepared and ensures the successful continuation of the Constitutional Court, so please support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u338	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic for the election of five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The Deputy Secretary-General shall also participate in the work. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. This is Franc Jazbec SDS, Aurelio Yuri SD, Rudolf Moze LDS, Cyril Testen NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? I guess not. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. 52 Members and Members voted, all in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission on the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there will be five votes delivered to Members and Members, each Member shall come to the table of the President, and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding itself in favour or against, word for or against. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, each candidate proposed will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 20.25 and will last until 20.45. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the assembly meeting, which will be resumed at 9:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u339	I don't know what's wrong with transportation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u340	I explained earlier that I would inform the Secretary-General. When I meet him, I'll let him know.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u341	The train leaves in half an hour. Five minutes before 9:00, he takes off, but I need a spare because he's not at the door.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u342	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjournment of item 29a of the agenda after the vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I will read the minutes of the vote. Minutes on the determination of the outcome of the vote for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for Dr Mile Dolenc. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 25 October 2007. 73 ballots, 73 votes, invalid 6, valid 67 were distributed. The "yes" was voted by 32 Members, "against" 35 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Dr Mile Dolenc was not elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes on the determination of the outcome of the vote for the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Dunjo Jadek Pensa. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were issued, 7 were invalid, 66 were valid. "For" was voted by 26 Members, "against" 40. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I note that Dr Dunja Jadek Pensa was not elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. Minutes of the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the Judge of the Constitutional Court, Mag. Miroslav Mozetič. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 votes were cast, 4 votes invalid, 69 votes valid. "For" was voted by 51 members, 18 members "against" were voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that it was mag. Miroslav Mozetič was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. [[Let's hear it.]] Gentlemen mag. I invite Miroslav Mozetič to come to the hall. I sincerely congratulate the elected Constitutional Judge! Please, Mag. Miroslav Mozetič, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, swears before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u343	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and that I will work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u344	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u345	I thank the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, who have expressed your trust in me, very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u346	[[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Minutes of the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the Judge of the Constitutional Court, Mag. Jadranka Sovdat. [[...]] 73 ballots were distributed, 73 votes in force 10, 63, 34 votes in favour, 29 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that mag. By a majority of the votes of all Members, the Court of Justice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia was not elected by Jadranka Sovdat. Minutes of the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Kristino Ozbolt. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 votes were cast, 5 votes in force, 68 votes in favour, 34 votes in favour, 34 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that mag. By the majority of the votes of all Members, Kristina Ozbolt was not elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As the candidates have not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, new elections shall be held on the basis of new nominations. We are moving on to the consideration of the five proposals of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted five proposals to the National Assembly for the election of candidates for judicial office at the District Court’s courts at the District Court in Celje and four District Judges at the District Court in Celje, Kranj, Ljubljana and Ptuj. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Petra Giacomelli to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. (For the vote was 55.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sonja Verbovšek to the court seat of the District Court at the Regional Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. (The vote was 53.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Bullets Furlan to the courthouse of the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. (For the vote was 52.)(Nobody.) I also welcome in the Chamber the representative of the Council of Justice Prof. Dr. Janez Kranjc. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Vanja Tinta Tavčar to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Natasa Shonaja Žličar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u347	I will not support this proposal, because the work in the Statistical Council is very responsible and by law the National Assembly has three representatives in the statistical world. So far, the National Assembly has always had one member, one of its members in the statistical world, that it represented the legislative authority in the statistical world and I can tell you from experience when I was in the statistical world, that a man there, if he knows the legislative process, and all the legislation that is being implemented in the National Assembly, is very helpful to the country, that statistics are respectable and that it is such that European statistics are also at the very top of this statistics. This connection was extremely good, and I think we have created ourselves a black mark by not being able, because it was not ours, at least for one Member, who was also proposed to continue this tradition of the National Assembly. We gave a mandate to one man, which, if you'll excuse me, I hear for the first time. Maybe he's good, but he'll never live among us, he'll never know the National Assembly, and the legislative process, and with that, the National Assembly, when it's elected, will do statistics one of the bad services. I wish we could look at this country a little bit, but not just whether someone is ours or someone else's. In this case, we are also on the working body or watching only, not whether it is ours, being a true Member or a member of this National Assembly, but whether you agree with a party, because the other party that was ours was probably not the right political option, so he did not get a vote. I am appalled by this behaviour of the National Assembly, and I will not support this candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment or discharge and appointment of members of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. Explanation of voice. Here you go, Mr. Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Chairman. In my opinion, the minister may well have decided to replace a team in the world of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund. The question is the rationality of this exchange, given that this world of funds no longer has any clever powers. With recent amendments to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in Article 10, we have transferred all important or most of the powers from the world of the Fund to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is one of the typical or unreasonable cases. In Article 5, it is true that there are still the same powers in the world of the Fund, but in this country, what we are experiencing recently, and especially yesterday and today, that the Government has absolute authority over all institutions in this country, including the National Assembly, is of course nonsense to remain the competence of the Council in Article 5 of the Agricultural Land Fund Act if the Government has in Article 10 all essential powers in the world of the Agricultural Land Fund. While there is one contradiction, probably a constitutionally disputed matter and may have to be resolved in some way, but the matter is completely meaningless and this world of the fund has no jurisdiction, so whether we vote there or not does not matter. I will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u350	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of members of the Council of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are going to consider a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction is politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner, and because of the suspicion of clientelism and corruption, and the suspicion of a direct or indirect link between current and former actors and holders of public functions with weapons between 1991 and 1993. The proposal was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief, but I think it would be a mistake if I didn't tell you why I'm leaving this commission of inquiry and why our parliamentary group decided to do so after consulting the Minister, who is the key person here. I stand out because in this way, as this Commission of Inquiry does, and in the manner in which President Milan Squeakl manages, we absolutely, for the first time, cannot agree, and for the second time, this cannot be done. However, the Commission was set up to work and to find out what was right and wrong. I estimate that leading this commission, for the first time, is ignorant, for the second time, that the Commission is governed by extreme will, and for the third time, that it is guided by a continuous breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President initially promised that this work would be carried out in a consensual manner. The work is running so that we are in constant conflict, constantly arguing that it is also in conflict with other commissions, with the Secretary of the National Assembly and so on. In short, there's always something brewing. And because of this vomiting, there is no atmosphere that can really be done properly. But his way of working is, in record, you can check it out, even as an example of good practice. If this is an example of good practice, then I don't understand it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u352	Mr. Rezman [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u353	I'm explaining why I'm getting out of this commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u354	I know, but the president's not here, so leave it alone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u355	Yeah, and he's the reason I'm getting out. It doesn't mean anything, I'm supposed to be here, and I'm gonna hear it. I already told him that at the session. The next thing I want to say is that I asked him twice, did not ask him, asked him to do what was right and to respect the rules of procedure. He turned it down. Explicit. I asked him to serve the members of the commission in this way to provide us with records and magnetograms. He turned it down in writing. Until she reminded him of my initiative, too, the Legislative and Legal Service, to break the Rules of Procedure and that from public meetings a magnetogram and minutes are available to all, not just the members of the Commission, all! These were public meetings. And because he is probably so determined not to comply with the Rules of Procedure, he will not vote and cannot vote on any proposal made by members of the Committee for Conclusion and if they are members of the Coalition Group. Neither are procedural decisions, nor are they voted on. However, the conclusions shall be adopted by adopting minority decisions after a meeting of three those who are bound by its way of work. Well, he'll probably do the easiest work when he's alone. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-25-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u356	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. There are 54 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. (For the vote was 49.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a regulation amending the decision establishing the Broadcasting Council. The proposal was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Electronic Communications Council The proposal was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Electronic Communications Council. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a Decision and on the conclusion of the termination of the function of the Member of the Cvetka Zalokar Orazem and of the Members of Dr Paul Gantar, Davorin Terčon and Villa Trofenik. On 12 October, the Council suspended its membership in the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Therefore, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 20, 129, 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The Ambassadors of Flowers Zalokar Orazem and Members of Dr Paul Gantar, Davorin Terčon and Villa Trofenika ceased to be members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members on 12 October 2007. In order to end the membership of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Dr. Paul Gantar shall cease to serve as Chairman of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services and as Vice-President of the Committee on Environment and Space, William Trofenika shall serve as Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Cvetka Zalokar I shall also act as Vice-President of the Committee on Local Self-Government, Davorin Tarčon, Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and shall serve as a member of the Commission under the anti-corruption law. Members and Members shall cease their functions from the date of their briefing at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing the Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the Zares Group for its consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Environment and Space, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a Decision on the election of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the Zares Group for its consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, if a majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Anti-Corruption Act. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the Zares Group for its consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are coming to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Anti-Corruption Act. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, for 56, against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjournment of item 2 of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union under the regular procedure. On Tuesday 23 October 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members, 57, against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned item 5 of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Commercial Law, within the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 23 October 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the proposed amendment would not have been inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present for 57, against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on digital broadcasting under the regular procedure. On Tuesday 23 October 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Let me give you another notice. Immediately after the meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice continues its 44th urgent session in the large lounge. Good night!
