ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. Thank you. Good-bye! I begin the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Roberto Battelli and Dr Mitja Slavinec. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st and 2nd agenda items, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all agenda items, candidate for Minister of Transport, mag. Ms. Zofija Mazej Kukovič, second item and representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia at the 4th item of the agenda. In doing so, I remind you that the Guarantee Act, 3rd item, has not undergone any changes on the working body, so the amendments to the article cannot be tabled and the agenda or timetable of the meeting will be reduced by 75 minutes, so that the vote will be voted at the latest at 7.40 or half hours after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 7 September 2007. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 28th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSED BY THE CANDIDATE FOR THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT. On 5 September 2007, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed to the National Assembly that he be appointed Minister of Transport. Merry Christmas. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly explain my proposal for a Minister of Transport. As you know, I'm in charge of this town after the Magi retreat. Janez Christmas suggested mag. Merry Christmas. Mr. Žerjav is a university graduate engineer, as well as a master of science. After finishing his study, he became head of the Department of Technology Operations and Production and then Head of Development for the whole company at the beginning of his career. In 2002, he took over the work and tasks of the technical director Nafte Petrochem, who is the largest company in the Nafte Lendava group. This year he was appointed director of Nafta Biodiesel. Since 2004, he has also served as assistant director in charge of the technical field of the Nafta Lendava group as a whole. Mag. Žerjav is also President of the Regional Development Council for Pomurje, President of the Development Council of the region, which faces the most serious development challenges in the country and performs this function well. It has extensive experience in the management of development projects, the preparation of strategies, alternative development programmes and, above all, has many managerial and organisational capacities. As he also said in his presentation to the competent parent committee, which he supported with a vast majority, in this respect, on the remainder of the mandate, on the tasks ahead, he highlighted the adopted resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which has recently begun to be intensely implemented, on the basis that certain points of this resolution can be achieved even better than before, and in this resolution, which is very important, he also personally sees good compromises between the needs of the economy, mobility, environmental requirements, security and energy efficiency. It agrees with the emphasis drawn up in this mandate on the need to replace delays in the two sectors of transport from the past. It is mainly about reconstruction and reconstruction, as well as the construction of new state roads, especially on the country's development axes, and it is, of course, about modernisation of rail transport, especially in the 5th and 10th European corridors or in the Slovenian part of both corridors. In the discussion, the candidate also expressed great willingness to overwind certain procurement procedures and to seek even more optimal solutions in the future when it comes to rational use of funds in the construction of transport infrastructure. For the candidate, the biggest challenge will certainly be the transition from some passive monitoring of rail transport developments, where Slovenia as a whole is facing one of the biggest challenges in the years to come, and given personal dynamics, the experience in project management is also a personal challenge for him. The fact is that after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, after a change in the geostrategic situation created by the enlargement of the European Union, when political barriers, which previously hampered infrastructure cooperation, no longer exist. The geostrategic advantage of Slovenia comes to an expression; through Slovenia, as has already been said, they are taking place [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The two pan-European corridors and the port of Cyprus lie on the shortest transport route between Central and Eastern Europe and the countries of the Mediterranean and we must take full advantage of this opportunity in the future, and the candidate is aware of this. [[...]] In the end, let me add to what is said and written that it seems very important to me that the candidate himself comes from northeast Slovenia, that he himself has felt traffic for many years. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] , and it will certainly respond very carefully in this regard to the specific problems arising from this fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. President of the Government. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on Transport and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. You received the opinion of the committee on the bench. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr. Joseph Bajc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u4	On the basis of Articles 230 and 231 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Transport shall give an opinion on the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Transport. Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav, who was proposed by the President of the Government for the Minister of Transport, presented to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Transport, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of Slovenia, as well as the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 10.9.2007, and answered the questions raised by the members of the Committee. In its opening presentation to the members of the Committee, the proposed candidate for a minister put transport policy first. In the area of development of state roads, according to the candidate, priority has been given mainly to the upgrading of the motorway cross and the rapid roads on the trans-European road network. In its work, the Ministry will focus on completing as quickly as possible the missing motorway sections identified by the national programme and the implementation of the additional motorway programme. The existing state road network is still considered to be unsatisfactory despite increased investment. The applicant considers that the introduction of an electronic toll system in free circulation, with conditions for interoperability, is essential for the realization of road traffic flow. In the field of rail transport, priority will be given to safety. Projects will continue to be launched, which will also have to be financed largely by the European Fund and the private sector; the construction of the railway infrastructure system; the modernisation of existing routes; and the addition of the 2nd track of Koper-Divač. According to the applicant, the development of port activities and the inclusion of Luke Koper as an important Mediterranean port should be achieved as this becomes increasingly important. The opportunity does not show any delay, so the relationship between Luka Koper and the Republic of Slovenia will have to be regulated. Ensuring maritime safety also requires urgent updates in this area. The resolution on the national maritime development programme is a document that will guide maritime development as an economic sector in our country as well. In the field of air transport, the preparation of a national programme for the development of civil aviation and related programmes will be crucial for the further development of all three airports, as the candidate for a minister stressed. As the candidate for the Minister of Transport pointed out in the introduction, the safety segment in all forms of transport is extremely important. The members of the committee asked the proposed minister's candidate a number of questions, mainly concerning the construction of the 2nd Divača-Koper railway track and, in this regard, alternative sources for financing this project; the provision of financing for the protection of railway crossings; the ownership of the Slovenian Railway Holding, Luke Koper and Intereurope; the rerouting of freight road transport from regional to motorways, in particular to railways; the role and importance of airports in Slovenia; the electronic tolling system in the free movement; the linking of individual areas of Slovenia to the motorway system within the third and fourth road corridor; the resolution of the problem of public passenger transport and the promotion of line passenger transport; and the regulation of a single ticket; the organisational and personnel changes at the Ministry of Transport. The proposed candidate for minister submitted appropriate answers and clarifications to the questions raised in the opinion of the members of the committee. After all, introduce the candidate mag. The Committee on Transport, by a majority of votes, adopted the following decision: The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the presentation of the views and views of the Republic of Slovenia was mag. Radovan Žerjav, a candidate for the Minister of Transport, is suitable for the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Bajc, to the chairman of the committee. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the parliamentary groups. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please. Jerovšek, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u6	Mr President, as I follow this presentation of the candidacy and today's debate on the new ministers, I am somewhat disturbed, I know that it is no longer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure adopted by the previous coalition in the previous term, the possibility of candidates participating in our debate. I think it's a sort of anachronism, because the basic tendency is for ministers to confirm in Parliament that the candidate [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u7	Mr Jerovšek, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u8	Yes, I will suggest that the candidate cooperates with Members, that it is a living communication. I propose, somehow, if there is any possibility of a business decision to invite candidates to the hall, so that we can lead this debate in live communication with them and then vote. I think that would somehow better present candidates to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u9	Mr Jerovšek, you know, the candidates may be present, but the hearing was held on the home working body, which is open to the public. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government, ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have indeed listened carefully to the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Transport, Mr Žerjev, and we have also carefully evaluated the answers he has given to the questions raised. I must say that we have also listened once again to the presentation by the Prime Minister of the Government, who was definitive, but he himself at the outset stressed the reference as to - and I agree with him. The candidate has references from all areas, in fact not only from the transport area to be covered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It was also appropriate that his responses were at the hearing, where, it must be admitted, he was honest and answered most of the time with: I don't know, I will try to find out more, you must understand that I only learned on Wednesday that I am a candidate for Minister. As I said, it is a fair approach, but, of course, most of the time we didn't get answers to the questions raised, but of course, we didn't expect that, too, to be true. The candidate was also honest when we asked him how he intended to remedy the situation on the Slovenian Railways, where he was always the President of the Supervisory Council, the State Secretary in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, Mr Verlic, where there was also one member of the Supervisory Council, who was now a former, State Secretary and the fact that Slovenian Railways were already drowning in major billions of losses - if we were even talking about hundreds of millions of euros. On the question of how this will be remedied and whether it is possible to redirect at least part of the traffic from the roads covered by foreign carriers to the railway, it has also been fair to say that the area it knows is mainly Prekmurje that there should be a transition somewhere in Murska Sobota and that this is not possible, since it would then be possible, since this would not be possible from the point of view of rail network permeability. In short, he was honest at this level, but as I said, he also said he didn't know the areas he was covering. On the explicit question of how, given that it lacks both theoretical and practical experience in this area and that it does not know the area, it will chair the European Union as transport minister, how it will represent the European transport policy and what its authority will be against the other transport ministers, in fact, we have not received a concrete answer. He said, "If I thought I couldn't do it, I wouldn't take it." Of course, as I said, this seems to us to be a very delicate question that candidates - and this also needs to be said honestly - are not the only three who will accept this - do not, of course, have adequate practical or theoretical experience in this particular area that they will cover. On the question of the third development axis, which is one of the key issues, the candidate correctly said that he would continue all the procedures, could not explain precisely why there were obvious delays on this development axis, regardless of whether it was given even when the Government was in the area, a clear promise that the construction of this third development axis would begin in 2008 did not happen. The warning that funds should also be provided for the third development axis in order to build it could not explain how these resources would be provided; but, as I said, we did not expect it, given that it does not know the very specific area it will cover. The candidate was also faced with very clear questions about how he will address the problems of the construction lobby, which controls the construction of the Slovenian highway network. The Šentvid-Kosese tunnel is one of the blackest points in the construction of the Slovenian highway network; for the first time, because it is obviously late to build this tunnel, and on the other hand, the apparent value or cost for taxpayers has increased by six times. On the question of how it is possible to build tunnels most expensive across the EU and that the value of this 5-km section alone is actually comparable to the value of the entire highway from South Korea to Vienna, where there is a whole range of viaducts and tunnels, of course the candidate had no answer. This answer should be given by his predecessor, who will obviously never explain it. Somehow we were not satisfied with the answer to the problem of construction lobbying. The candidate, and we welcome this, claimed that he was not a member or that he had no ties with the representatives of these lobbyists in construction. And that is, in fact, the only good point is that you are neither theoretically nor practical in the field of construction or transport as such. The fact is that, after all, we may be getting a candidate who is not actually involved in any lobby at this time, although we are afraid that, as has happened to his predecessor, the government has appointed him directly as Director Dars, that he will, of course, become a prisoner of these lobbies and that these black points, which are finally paid by all taxpayers, will continue. We were pleased with that part of the candidate's presentation when he explained his position on the potential entry of Deutschebahn into Slovenian infrastructure. The candidate agreed with the opinion that we have already put forward on several occasions that such partners need to be sought with public international calls and was obviously also surprised when he was faced with the fact that there is obviously already some negotiations with the individual investor without having been properly launched before. He was most obviously surprised by the fact that some members of the committee had warned him that Deutscebahn was actually reviewing the situation on Slovenian railways or carrying out some kind of "new duelligence" or analysis of the necessary care with a view to entering the ownership structure of Slovenian infrastructure companies. We were pleased with this work. We hope that he will insist on this and that, from this point on, at least from this point on, as far as the search for potential strategic partners is concerned, greater transparency will be ensured, perhaps even through public international calls. As I have already mentioned, in some ways we are still the most skeptical of how the candidate will be able to properly chair the other transport ministers when the time is right. In particular, because, by the time of the Presidency of the European Union, there are some more than three months left, we can see that, in fact, he will spend an entire deployment period preparing for the Presidency of the European Union and that there will be very little time for concrete operational measures to be faced. Finally, I would like to highlight our view in Zares that the President of the Government, as a mandate-holder, has the right to change the Minister even during the term of office if, of course, he receives the coalition's support for this. The Slovenian parliamentary procedure is in some ways special and must come again every time for confirmation to the National Assembly or every time for confirmation, mainly by its coalition. As I said, the mandate-holder is a selector, and if, for example, Slovenian basketball selector Mr Pipan wanted to place three hockey players in the first five in the European basketball championship, he would not be able to prevent it, but would expect him to take full responsibility for the defeat. Neither do I, or in the Group of Members, really intend to prevent the President of the Government, nor can he replace his team in the middle of a mandate. We are very skeptical that, for the first time in history, we will obviously face ministers who have neither theoretical nor practical experience in the areas they cover, and is in fact the only key reference they have, as someone has said, that they are the users of the services they will now run. But, as we said, it is the right of the Prime Minister to make these changes. It is our right to abstain from any vote, and the responsibility of the Government and the President of the Government is very clear, not only objective, but also subjective, for the work of these departments. That is how, in view of everything in our Group of Members, we have decided not to support the candidate, but we will not oppose him, because we say, it is the responsibility of the Coalition to do what you started at the beginning of the mandate. The expectations of this government's election were extremely high. The public rightly had very high expectations. We ourselves estimate that a large part of these expectations have not been met. The time for these expectations to be fulfilled is very short. We do not want to prevent you from doing so, nor can we support you because we believe that you are going the wrong way in the case of these new exchanges. That is why we will abstain from voting in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! A colleague before me spoke of responsibility, responsibility that they themselves would not take over and that they were responsible members of the Government and the President of the Government. But from this place, I'm asking, what responsibility did my colleague talk about? We all know what the consequences of bad work are for a political official - resign and his responsibility will end. The President of the Government is replaced by the election, and his responsibility is thus terminated. I think that this should not be the goal of anyone and everyone here in the Chamber to say, "I am not responsible, others are responsible," and this responsibility will be paid by giving up. And when I'm talking about resignations: I believe that all of us are more or less surprised by the extremely rapid action of the President of the Government when he called for the resignation of some of his closest associates. But, of course, this is his right; but, but he also has obligations, obligations not only to the National Assembly, especially to his citizens and citizens. And from this place in the Slovenian National Party Group, we regret that these moments have taken place so quickly that we, neither we nor the professional nor lay public, have been able to participate in the review of the inventory carried out so far at the aforementioned department. The easiest thing to do is to step down and say tomorrow, "I'm not responsible for what I've done for the last three years. I am no longer interested in our own in the field of Slovenian Railways, let it be in the area of construction of highways, asbestos, anything." And that this is how a person ends his three-year reign in that area, and then later in the night he decides to support and support the President of the Government, then something is wrong. According to our assessment, it was in the past that Mr Janez Janša, the current Prime Minister of the Government, requested an inventory of the work done in the previous mandate. He was the one who expressed his views and will in this House, the tendency to meet the content. Where do we have this content today? So, the content of the individual department minister. We don't think she's here. The President of the Government, of course, made a mockery of the state of the spirit in this Parliament and in general in Slovenian politics, because the fact is that his performance today, which he pointed out was supported by a large majority, does not mean any credibility - not to the candidate, nor to the President of the Government, and not least to the home working body. And when I mention the state of the spirit, the state of political spirit in our country, we all know that blindness in this House or the blind leadership of ruling Members will enable, even in the face of proven guilt, or in the face of proven ignorance that the candidate proposed by the President of the Government on the basis of a consultation with his coalition partners will always be supported. And that's bad. As regards the developments in relation to the working body of the mother, which the Chairman of the Committee and the President of the Government have identified as positive, as constructive, I must say that we do not agree in the National Party. Our Member, Happy Friend, who participated in the expert debate, at least he did not receive the answers that a person would expect. Let me point out from this place our impression of this hearing and the present presentation. Before that, allow me to point out only what we have said so publicly in the past or the last days of the previous week in the National Party, and, frankly, we probably also naively expected to be able to have a substantive conversation with the candidate even outside of the parent's working body, and there was no obstacle - not at all, far from that - not Friday, not Saturday, Sunday. No, the President of the Government has decided to act strictly in accordance with his rights, not in line with the desire to pursue the well-being of information, but in particular the future of the sector in question today before us or the Ministry of Field Affairs. As we read the magnetic records of the said meeting, that is, the parent working body, various presentations through the media, we came to the realization that the candidates were most likely to be in favour of a general task of secondary education. So the general tasks of secondary education, in which it was exposed: so, this would be necessary, this would be necessary, this would be "fine", this would make sense, but nothing more. But, ladies and gentlemen, a candidate for a minister, or rather a future minister, must, of course, know the field much more than a student at the level of secondary education. We were expecting first-time answers. At the final stage, we are talking about the Minister, the number one person in this area, namely in the field of transport. Answers how, when, a source of funding and not just, "Yes, it would make sense." According to our assessment, this has brought the candidate extremely close to the ruling politician or ruling composition of the current government. We have missed and still miss the strategy of Slovenian Railways, which employs more than 9,000 people and is not just and only one of the logistics providers within our country. We have missed the specificity of when, how, the source and the indebtedness of financing in connection with airports within our country, increasingly and constantly abandoned to the Maribor airports and increasingly and ever again the arrival or proximity to airports outside our country. We have missed a security strategy, not just and only will the penalties be lifted. To that end, the Minister, the future, should also be defined. The question of rerouting vehicles remained open or in the context of an idyllic answer. Yes, I agree with you that Slovenian roads are overloaded. But if the mother's working body or the national council was following the minister in the form that he would say I agree, but he doesn't know how, then it's not the role of the minister. The Minister is the one who needs to know who needs to say, that's gonna be then, with this money and this way. These are the answers that are expected from the first person in each ministry. The issue of freight transport - no questions have been asked, not only by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, but also by many other Members in this National Assembly, but also this time it has remained open. The question of asbestosism - colleague Srečko Friend is several times within his questions in the past year, two, he points out and submits statistics on asbestos content, and should only be in the locomotive with code 362, where he is for one tonne of asbestos. But, of course, the minister in question doesn't know anything about this area. He doesn't know anything! It has 100 days ahead of it, as it will, of course, require citizens and citizens to leave it, of course, to introduce it, after 100 days it will come at the head of the country or department, of transport within the European Union. This, of course, means two things: whether the candidate is not self-critical or unaware of what he is going into. According to our assessment in both cases, this is a rather sad story. The issue of tolling and setting ABC tolling on the left or right is a pure unknown to him, as is of course what the Minister should put at the heart of his presentation in the long term, in the context of our country, is the reimbursement of funding, the cost of financing and, of course, the budgetary item for his work circle. In this area, too, it has been exposed several times and repeatedly. These are the problems of the state. But the Minister is not in his position to only introduce us to problems, but the Minister is in his position to solve these problems. And the Minister should have knowledge and behaviour about problem-solving. From this and many other addresses, but unfortunately we are limited in time in our discussions, we cannot give our votes to a candidate for minister in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u13	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia thinks that Minister Bozič has resigned for objective reasons, because of the accidents that have occurred, although the Ministry has led relatively well and has shown that it will also lead to the end. The new candidate is undoubtedly a capable man who has honestly said that he is less familiar with this area, but we do not think that this is fundamental. It is fundamental that he observe the profession and work in harmony with the laws. It is especially important for us that he stated that he would look under the fingers at the executive lobby and companies that build motorways for expensive money, because highways fall apart earlier than in ten years, a bridge that can be built within a few months, is being repaired for several years, the final amounts for individual sections are several times higher, the motorways open with pump, and then we drive only half a year on one side, because the work still needs to be completed, although the operators have already "cut off" the early completion prize. We believe that it is fundamental that he be honest with the things he takes over. As a rule, none of the ministers know the source until they take it, even if he is an expert in a particular field. Surely, though, just the fact that he knows things is not necessarily good in the sense that things are going to go well. Even someone who knows things can go the wrong way, can make bad decisions. And of course, knowing the area can even help to create bad solutions, and such cases are known. In short, in our Group of Members, we have decided to support the candidate in good faith. The time available is relatively short, we must certainly not expect to solve the accumulated problem in this area, which is costly, and in particular with regard to Slovenian Railways, cannot compensate for the short-term underestimation of the problem of rail infrastructure and efforts for its rehabilitation. That is how we think that, in the fact that it has no doubt a good purpose, it is justified to accept our support and we will give it the opportunity to do what is left to it at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! We have before us a proposal for a new Minister of Transport, which the President of the Government has presented to us after the resignation of the current Minister of Mags. Janez Christmas. In recent times, especially in recent weeks, he has been under very great pressure, mainly due to two tragic accidents, when he was given objective responsibility for both accidents and was asked to resign. And probably the minister ruled that there was probably no point in defending yourself against charges and prosecutions and incriminating charges. Before the last elections, a national programme for the construction of motorways was adopted, which placed very demanding deadlines for the completion of the network. Building dynamics prior to the adoption of this motorway programme were not a very good basis for such bold planning, as there were always great delays in the implementation of the programme. This government has taken the commitment from the national programme seriously and the Ministry has put the work behind it in such a way that the remaining sections, in particular the pomurski leg, will be built within the required deadlines. This also means, secondly, that there was a need to provide significantly more resources than in the years before, as well as operational ones, the operators had to adapt to this plan. We can see that, to the greatest extent possible, the follow-up to the construction plan, which means that key traffic jams will be removed within two, three consecutive years, so that transit flows, especially freight flows, will move to motorways, in order to significantly improve life and safety on overloaded sections and also on inadequate sections of state roads. As we explore how it is appropriate to complete the highway programme, there are dilemmas, such as the big dilemmas, whether the programme should end with its own resources within budgetary options and adjust the appropriate building dynamics, because it means several kilometres of highway per year and extend the relevant deadlines. It is a dilemma whether to maintain the current pace of building motorways and also to give up investments in other areas, or simply rent credits and prioritise completion of construction. We have decided for this last or last time, especially on the basis of the marked increase in traffic. This also provides a good opportunity for the financial sustainability of providing or covering the burden of an intergenerational programme. An additional turn on of highway sections will also bring additional resources. The logical consequence is also the decision on the toll system. As the most acceptable way, this moment shows a satellite system allowing tolls in the free toll current, in the free traffic flow and each user being burdened by kilometres transported. This transition would most likely significantly rationalise the use of passenger vehicles in transport, drop many unnecessary transports, reduce or at least stop rapid passenger traffic growth, reduce environmental burdens, reduce congestion mainly in cities and maybe save some energy balance. However, we also support the increased attention given to state roads, as until this mandate and updates and investments in this network have been fully subordinated to the motorway programme. It is only within the mandate of this government that the funds for the reconstruction of state roads have increased significantly, allowing in particular the areas covered by the motorway programme to better connect with the regional centres and also with Ljubljana. There is a great deal of attention to be paid to building development axes. The candidate is also very aware of this, because the construction of these axes is particularly important for those areas that will not receive a motorway network. This opens up some regional centres and opens up conditions for a more equitable development of the country. However, the placement procedures of these corridors take place for various reasons too slowly and in these cases we encounter several very strong positions of different co-operators, which sometimes, also for small but resolutional details, stop projects and procedures for a year or more. And I am certainly sure that the relevant authorities in this area should react much faster and even more decisively, because among these measures that can be implemented, there are also such measures which the State co-finances or is also financed in the cell and are not taken into account and applied in these solutions. The resolution adopted on transport policy highlights interoperability and intermodality, i.e. links between ports, airports, road and rail networks, and gives a great deal of emphasis to more environmentally acceptable modes of transport. A major emphasis is placed on rerouting road, freight transport to railways, improving passenger traffic, establishing corridors 5 and 10. In the next few years, the motorway programme will be completed, but this means only about one third of the resources needed to establish the corridors definitively. It remained fully open to the railway part, a rail network which is significantly more expensive and more difficult than road. Given the potential of the country, the value of the project and the possibility of providing funds or the possibility of repayment of commitments, it is clear that this project can only be completed in conjunction with other partners; it can be done by private, foreign, but probably only in this combination. If we do not develop a partnership and prioritise the regulation of both railway corridors, then we will most likely be bypassed by important traffic flows and this will not only endanger the operation of the port of Koper, but also its existence. I think it is necessary to take advantage of the opportunity of transport corridors and the advantage of Kopra between these ports and to actually approach the search for the most appropriate resources for the priority construction of these corridors. Until now, there has always been a lot of talk about railways, little has been done, at critical times, there has always been some bad compromise that has not yet been fully implemented, and with railways, this system has only begun to take serious action in this mandate. A major change is the guarantee law, which brings about €400 million into the rail system, in two, three subsequent years, and also brings about a significant change in the adoption of a roof law, which brings a much clearer division of powers and responsibilities, and thus is expected to significantly increase the effectiveness of the system in all areas, including in the area of security. It is particularly gratifying that the candidate has also highlighted the great need for prioritisation and regulation of level crossings. Something like that with the railways so far has been with the airports, both of them. Ljubljana hasn't developed much, Maribor has stagnated, collapsed. In this mandate, it has joined the substantial expansion and modernisation of the Ljubljana airport, which will be able to accept significantly more passengers and also goods, while meeting difficult safety and control criteria. Finally, we can say that a Maribor airport has also come to life, for which an appropriate programme and solution has not been found for a long time, but is now an important additional development opportunity. Of course, it will also be necessary to work very intensively on the development of both. He's a candidate for Minister of Magic. As a good manager, Radovan Žerjav will be able to continue with all good approaches, he will be able to connect all those ends of the station that have proved weak. It is likely that the entire transport sector will not be able to put on its head at this time, but with different approaches it is possible to address the shortcomings it will identify at this time. In this mandate, I estimate that by the end of this mandate, it will be a system that is likely to have the highest share of investment between all departments and may have large amounts of savings that can be used to extend projects or other projects. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that he is a suitable candidate, and we wish him a successful management of the transport base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Proposal for a Transport Minister Radovan Žerjava is the proposal of the President of the Government and if we analyse the reasons for the resignation of the current Minister of Mags. Christmas, let us find that this is a very succinct statement of resignations and, at the same time, a very sceptical presentation of new candidates. We believe that this is all too little for ministers who are entering a government that is facing an ever-increasing rise in inflation and an ever-increasing rise in prices. So this resource is certainly one of those that has an extremely important impact on economic growth, demographic development and, above all, stability of development in the country. In fact, transport infrastructure is very important for economic and demographic development, which, last time in the last period, is evidenced mainly by the construction of motorways. It is also true that Slovenia has become a member of the European Union and that there are actually 5 and 10 European corridors on its territory, which means that we also have a very important role to play in this area in the European Union. At this point, we can even estimate that the entry into the European Union has escaped us, because the construction of motorways has not been fast enough to take over all the traffic that has eased through Slovenia's entry into the European Union. In particular, this is the transport that freight transport represents. By 70%, freight road traffic has increased, which means that the roads we built and built with our own money are actually the most useful for trucks from other countries. And not only that, but also maintenance is becoming a growing problem because it is known that one truck causes 33,000 times more damage on the vehicle than, for example, a passenger car. So it's very important how we organize road traffic. Of course, it is also very important whether this follows all these needs of rail transport. If that is not the case, we can talk about the fact that the economic development of neighbouring countries and, in particular, of the Member States of the European Union is, after all, destroying the health of our people, burdening the environment and, of course, infrastructure. These are very serious questions which should be answered very clearly by the candidate for the Minister of Transport when he enters this function. On the question of how he assesses the work so far and what he wants to change, the candidate's reply was that the work of the current minister was good, but he was too busy with roads and too little with railways. A very significant statement or answer, because we remember the debate in this House when we all heard too often that this government has done so much right for the railways. So obviously the answer to that question and the situation is going somewhere else. The fact is, both systems must act in a coordinated manner. To do this, we need money, which must also be invested in both systems in a coordinated manner. However, some important decisions of the Government have already taken place during this period, which shows that it will be very difficult to achieve a coordinated development of both systems. We have already heard today, and also in the presentation of the candidate, that the Government has decided on a satellite toll collection system and, last but not least, has decided to organise Slovenian railways in a single way. Both facts show and confirm that road construction and an efficient rail system are moving away. Let us also see what is happening in the funds in this area. The payment of tolls at the time of registration of the vehicle shall not be returned to the road network. The means of use represented by the gas tolar shall not be returned to the construction of motorways. On the other hand, it can be noted that the use of rail infrastructure is virtually not paid. The annual coverage of the losses of Slovenian railways from the Ministry or from the budget of the Ministry of Transport further complicates the effective cooperation of roads and railways. The high level of passenger subsidies indicates that road road public transport, bus transport is neglected, because it receives significantly less subsidies and this also shows this difference between how it is not actually a coordinated development of both areas. And most importantly, when we touch new sources of indebtedness, the most important source for the construction of motorways and railways during this period is debt. With the Social Democrats, we have warned that of course we are aware of the urgency and needs of the early construction of the highway cross. However, if this is already being accelerated by borrowing credits, it is, of course, necessary to follow up with resources that will allow these loans to be repaid, otherwise this will become an obligation to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the fact is, as I have already said, that the petrol toll is not intended for this purpose, and the fact is that the government has opted for a satellite tolling system, for which we do not yet have built infrastructure and all the necessary facilities that could actually introduce this system. We therefore believe that it is essential to build or upgrade the microwave toll system that we are meeting today when we use the so-called ABC toll system. We already have and need to upgrade this system in order to ensure a stable influx of tolls that will allow us to plan both the repayment of credits and, otherwise, the further construction and modernisation and, above all, the maintenance of motorways. In railways, the decision to rent credit fell, but this credit is included in the burden of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This was also one decision which shows that we will in fact find it difficult to meet these expectations with the shortest possible update and construction of Slovenian railways. Because our budget is already very much in charge. In fact, our proposal to organise two separate companies, namely holding two subsidiaries on the railways, is a company for the maintenance and management of public railway infrastructure and for the management of transport and for another company dealing with the transport of goods and activities of the public service and the transport of passengers, was, of course, a different response from the Government. We're going into a single system. Today, when we talk about this and even in this marriage, we talked about the possibility of getting additional money through a private partnership. At that time, we argued that no private partner would invest in a single rail system, because it was an imprudent business and it was actually an unnecessary exercise of responsibility for, for example, public passenger transport, which was clearly the largest consumer of public funds. If we are to acquire private capital and thereby reduce the burden of indebtedness, it will be necessary to reorganise this company. Here, however, a very large question arises whether the Government is able to establish a dialogue with trade unions on Slovenian railways that advocate a single system and lead in a completely different direction, such as that of making this system rational, efficient and interesting for private capital investment. So far, the government has not been able to do that. And if I reiterate this decision to introduce the satellite system, we can talk about the proposed candidate for the Minister of Transport having already closed doors to harmonise both the road programme and the railway programme into a single, integrated transport system in the Republic of Slovenia. And worst of all, it also closes its doors so that it can actually freeze the construction of the third development axis, the third development axis, the third development axis B and the fourth development axis. In particular, the means for an additional motorway programme will not be provided by this toll system because it is too unknown. This is one of the reasons why the parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not support the candidate. Otherwise, we believe that the most important reason why we do not support the candidate is that it is the responsibility of the government to act as a ministry and thus the government to bear. And it's her decision to make. As I said, we will not support the candidate for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u20	Nice greetings from the President of Parliament, the rest of the ministers, colleagues, colleagues! At the very beginning of this presentation of our position of the LDS Group, let me make it clear that the candidate for Transport Minister Mag. We're not going to support the cheery Zereva. The argument will be shown below. The transport system in modern societies by ensuring optimal mobility of people and goods makes it possible for other social systems to function optimally. Unfortunately, in our country, the transport system does not yet guarantee this optimal mobility, not in terms of speed, safety, comfort, nor in terms of protecting our environment. Likewise, the transport system does not allow us to exploit our geographical position and traffic as one of Slovenia's rare strategic advantages. More. The state of the transport system threatens that Slovenia will not be able to exploit its geographical position at all, as modern transport corridors will simply bypass it. Where are the reasons for such a situation? The reason is also undeniable in decades of absence of an appropriate transport policy, which was most reflected in the neglect of the rail subsystem. However, this cannot be an alibi for the poor and even the unfinished work of the former Minister of Transport of Magi. Janez Christmas. The former Minister was simply not a match for the tasks of the accelerated modernisation of the transport system. It was without a clear vision of the further accelerated development of the transport system, which is also well reflected in the adopted transport policy, which, in the form of a resolution without concrete measures and deadlines for their implementation, remains a dead letter on paper. He was the prisoner of a coalition agreement in which a member of another party must take the place of the secretary, which is in fact the main reason and one which has also prevented development on the entire transport system. The President of the Government, Janez Janša, is not interested in the apparent state of the transport system. If I had, I would have listened to the warnings of the transport profession, the operators of the transport activity and, last but not least, to the warnings and demands of the LDS and mags. Janez Bozič had already replaced him with a more competent man, especially a more professional man. I should do the same with Mr Verlic, Secretary of State. In the LDS, we are disappointed that Prime Minister Janez Janša has now not replaced the former Minister because of the state of the transport system, but has done so because of the balance between the resignations of ministers by party ownership and also because of the immediate neutralisation of the negative impact of the debate on the serious problems in the transport system on his public image and the desire that, even this way, a year before the parliamentary elections, he will try to reverse the trend of falling public support for himself and his party. On the suitability of the candidate for Minister of Mag. It is difficult to say anything positive, except that he is young, that he is ambitious, and that he obviously has some managerial knowledge and qualities. At the hearing before the mother's working body, i.e. the Committee on Transport, the candidate could not specifically answer almost any of the questions raised. Whether this was as important as the value of investment in rail infrastructure, so what the primary school population already knows about the need to invest in the transport system or rail system of EUR 9 billion was not even able to answer the candidate for the transport minister. Whether it would be a time frame for the introduction of an electronic toll system or what the number of crossings of trucks across the border of the Long Village, that is, its immediate neighbourhood, would not be able to answer the right number. This shows that the incompetence and ignorance of this area is a fact. In doing so, we would like to point out to the LDS that the mag. We do not object to Radovan Žerjav a priori, but we cannot go beyond the fact that he has not been engaged in transport until now, except as director of a company that will obviously produce biodiesel and that he is also a driver. His choice points to the fact that none of the transport experts with excellent references was prepared to participate in the government a year before the parliamentary elections, since the Transport Minister is the prisoner of another coalition party and trade unions, which he alone controls. Mag. We'll be assessing the joyous Zerjeva according to his work. We do not agree with the LDS that a year is too short a time for any serious changes in transport policy. On the contrary - a year is long enough to regulate the necessary positive changes and they are necessary and necessary on this transport system. We expect in particular the following from any transport minister, so of course also from Mr Radovan Žerjev's candidate. First, to specify the resolution on transport policy and to complement it with measures and deadlines for its implementation. Secondly, ensure equal treatment of all transport subsystems, both road, rail, maritime and aviation, within transport policy and its carriers. Thirdly, a serious analysis of the system of financing for transport infrastructure, notably the road infrastructure introduced by the current Government and the holding of an open expert debate on the already expressed concerns about the long-term financial sustainability of the motorway programme. Fourthly - the immediate acceleration of the reconstruction and construction of railway infrastructure, notably the 5th Corridor, as there is a real danger that the Lyon-Budapest Railway Corridor, one of the European Union's priority projects, will bypass Slovenia. Petič - accelerating preparation for construction, strategically important new two-track railway lines between Kopro and Divac for our country. Six: the immediate implementation of short-term measures and the preparation of long-term measures to manage and address the transport and environment problems caused by the rapid growth of road transport, in particular transit road freight. Week - the adoption of measures to revive public passenger transport and the immediate definition of the initiative of the Section for the Public Transport of Passengers in Line and Free Road Transport, which operates within the framework of the Transport Association of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which has not received any response for three months from the Minister or the Ministry, even though the proposal is useful, well-intentioned and appropriate. Eight: Re-examination of the possibility of setting up a public passenger transport agency linking all transport sectors, pooling financial resources and providing a uniform and modern public passenger transport system. Ninth - effective measures for improved road and rail traffic safety. A decade - an immediate clarification of the infringements of construction deadlines and the extortion of contractors at prices, especially in the case of additional construction costs when completion of the basic motorway programme and full assistance to Dars in dealing with cartel negotiation of contractors in the implementation of the road programme. Eleventh - to provide public and fully transparent selection procedures for the most favourable foreign provider for the design of the planned logistics holding and related procedures for the modernisation of the obsolete railway infrastructure. As it is said, in LDS, we do not agree with the view that the new minister will not be able to do much. The new Minister's tasks are primarily tasks that the former Minister has failed or has failed to perform, and their success depends in particular on the vision, competence and will of the Minister and less than the length of his mandate. Unfortunately, the candidate with his competence, knowledge, and other answers, or views, did not convince us. In the LDS, we also regret that mag. Radovan Žerjav, as a candidate of the minister, did not make a rare or commendable move now already by Minister Iztok Jarc, who, even as a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, made us an additional presentation and also made an impression on his future work. In the end, however, let me say once again that the LDS Members will vote unitedly against the candidates of the Magi. Happy Zerjava for the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! In the New Slovenia Group, we have examined the proposal of the President of the Government, who proposes Mr Mag as Minister of Transport. Merry Christmas. We also assessed that yesterday's presentation of the candidate on the parent's working body was objective. We are not one of those parliamentary groups that expects or requires ministerial candidates to have ministerial experience. We trust in the best intentions of the candidate, who will consistently implement adopted laws or guidelines in the field of transport in the National Assembly. Our positive decision or support to the candidate mag. We are building Žerjavu on confidence in the candidate's management references, on the experience of conducting demanding projects, but we have not missed his reputation, which is also enjoyed by the candidate as president of the development council of the Pomur region. Transport is a resource where, for example, millions of euros are discussed in the construction of transport infrastructure. However, we expect the candidate or the new Minister of Transport to have a delicate attitude towards every citizen's taxation centre with which the Transport Minister's Department has a transport centre. Slovenia is in the "finish" of the construction of the highway cross. We expect the completion of the highway system as soon as possible, in August of the following year, as the candidate himself predicted, the completion of the ferry terminal, which will definitively relieve the superhuman burdens of people living along the G1-3 road or on the home side of the Lendava-Maribor road. Finally, in the Republic of Slovenia we also took the first steps towards modernising railway infrastructure. We expect the new Minister to continue and to intensify activities in this direction, with a true sense of what key actors in the entire Slovenian logistics system mean for the Republic of Slovenia, which is also part of the European logistics system. Roads - Slovenia has large reserves in toll collection. According to Darsa, we only collect 21⁄23 tolls. If we have a toll system, we must also respect the principle of righteousness. With the tolls we pay off the loans hired to build the highway system. These could also be lower, and each highway user must, of course, pay every km transported along the highway. As has already been said, in the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that it is a mag. Radovan Žerjav is a suitable candidate for the Minister of Transport in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not afraid of responsibility, so we will support it and support it in its work. In his work, of course, we wish him much success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Nice autumn greeting at the first autumn session of this National Assembly. After the resignation of the Minister of Transport, Mr Mag. Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed to the National Assembly a candidate for Minister of Mag. Merry Christmas. In opening, I would like to point out that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we firmly believe that it is the current Minister of Transport Mag. Janez Bozič did his work well and well, but he probably did not put up with it anymore, I could say, in the free word of the lynch concerning the resounding traffic accidents that have occurred recently and decided to resign, which we accept in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. It was his decision. Although we regret every disaster in the parliamentary group, especially the disaster that has resulted in human life and so do those two recent accidents. A candidate for minister, mag. Radovan Žerjav, according to our firm belief, is the right person who, with his knowledge and ambition, will successfully carry out the projects already in place and find solutions in a wide range of areas that have been critical for a long time and have not been completed by the ministers so far. Mag. Radovan Žerjav comes from Nafte Lendava, where he has done more than successfully, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we think he will also succeed as Minister at the Ministry of Transport. It is also not to be forgotten that the candidate comes from Prekmurje, which is from that part of Slovenia, which is most needed to regulate transport infrastructure and which is also increasingly lagging behind other parts of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, the choice of candidate from Pomur was also for the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Mag. We're eating a proposal of exceptional importance. In the Slovenian People's Party, we constantly stress the importance of ensuring even development in Slovenia and not neglecting the marginality at the expense of the country's centres. We believe this, and we are convinced that the candidate for a minister who certainly has a sense of urgency for the equitable development of Slovenia will also help to quickly implement projects in the most neglected area of our country. The candidate already made it clear on yesterday's Transport Committee that he would follow up on the implementation of the transport policy resolution that we adopted and which ensures continuity in the regulation and development of transport infrastructure in all areas. The presentation of the candidate programme has been broad and has evenly covered all the key areas of transport policy in our country. In particular, let me point out those which, in our view and in the candidate's view, are the most important. The candidate highlighted the unsatisfactory state of affairs on the state road network. This is an area in which we are constantly alerting and will be in the future. The construction of the highway cross must not and cannot be a reason for neglecting state roads, which are the only access to central Slovenia and other cities for a variety of regions in our country, and will never receive construction, either highway or fast road. The other thing I would particularly like to point out is the candidate's words from yesterday's presentation on the Transport Committee when he spoke about railways or rail infrastructure. Regarding the Slovenian Railways project with the German partner, he made it clear, quote: "My assessment is that this is an extremely large project, the biggest project, probably in our country, so I will defend extreme caution here because I would not want the pearl of our economy to be given just to someone." In the Slovenian People's Party, we have a very clear position on the management of key companies. We are convinced that the preservation of key, important companies in Slovenian growth for the further development of Slovenia is of paramount importance. We do not oppose the arrival of foreign capital, but especially when it comes to greenfield investments. For Slovenia as a small country, the preservation of ownership is particularly important due to the consequent preservation of the management of companies in Slovenia, also in view of the long-term existence of the people themselves. Of course, cooperation with foreign partners is welcome as long as they provide you with new investments, knowledge and development. In doing so, we must be careful to maintain as much control as possible and to ensure a fair price for cooperation with other partners in such important areas or in such important projects. In many areas, the candidate highlighted the possibility of a public-private partnership. We believe that this is the right direction, since it is possible to preserve or exercise public interest on the one hand, and on the other hand the economic development that private sector partners can provide. However, there is also a need to talk about transparency, and this was highlighted several times by the candidate yesterday in the presentation to the committee. We are confident that the future minister will be able to take care of transparent open items that will enable the selection of the best private sector partners and thus ensure the exercise of public interest. There is no doubt that this is because the candidate also stressed with Dars and his obligations that the Ministry's attention will be focused on Dars' supervision and, above all, on the transparency of public procurement in the construction of the highway cross. As a special advantage of the candidate for a minister, we must stress his managerial experience and the freshness it brings to the Ministry of Transport. It is a young man who is not burdened by such or other events in the field of transport policy or by such or other actors who have their own interests there. Experiences with savings and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Business policy in the company will certainly have its place in the work of the candidate for Minister Žerjev. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party o mag. I am sure that, given that we are also candidates for his candidacy to the Prime Minister of the Government, we believe that this is a great candidate who will be in line with his tasks and will achieve the goals he has set now at the beginning of the ministry's mandate at the Ministry of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers and others present! When we talk about the reconstruction of the Government, it is my personal opinion that this is something completely normal during the duration of the mandate, which can happen suddenly, but for a while the success or failure of the individual ministerial department may be measured. And in some situations, the Prime Minister of the Government estimates that something needs to be done at the Ministry, and, of course, it is necessary to replace one of the ministers. If, of course, the minister himself considers that he has not satisfied the realization, he will offer his own resignation. It is a completely normal process that is happening and will happen in the future. Well, of course, today we need to talk about individual candidates, given that we are now talking about a candidate for an important resource; all the resources are important, some more demanding, others less, but they are the whole of what we call a government. Mag. Radovan Žerjav presented himself yesterday to the Home Committee, the Committee on Transport. During our almost three - hour treatment, we listened to his views and views on the area he would run. Therefore, it seems very important to me to stress that we are primarily assessing his views and his views, i.e. the candidate's views and views on the area he wants to lead. And today, judging that the candidate answers with "I don't know", it's quite normal for someone to ask him what number of trucks it is when they enter the Long Village and so on. I don't think that's right. It is not fair to evaluate candidates later on by these numbers, which are almost weekly changes. This is exactly what we found yesterday on the parent board that the number of trucks on Slovenian roads on individual entry points changes from month to month. However, they were extremely positive candidates' views and views on state roads. For all types of traffic, the candidate placed a great deal of emphasis on safety. Another important and necessary category when we talk about security, but security requires a lot of components, which then help to improve security. Regrettably, though, the one where we find that the worst tragedies, when responsible for human tragedy, are certainly not the result of the candidate or minister’s influence. It is up to us, respected and respected, to become a little more cultural participants in transport. It will be necessary to be aware before we sit behind the wheel that when we start the engine and the car, we also become potential killers. Perhaps, however, this grave word will lead us to realize and observe all traffic signs and signs, inscriptions and signs on the roadways, to adjust the speed of traffic conditions. The candidate also made a very broad presentation of important investments in public rail infrastructure. In the past 60 years, railways have not received State money from public rail infrastructure and have stagnated. What we should thank all railways for is that they help with their faithful work despite the outdated devices to ensure quite a lot of safety on the tracks of Slovenian railways. Of course, railway workers are not responsible, although tragedy on the road-rail levels is a tragedy that is being killed, because this is simply not preventable in this technique and technology. But he's a candidate for mag. Radovan Žerjav made it clear yesterday that he was going to take the state on the level crossings of the road across the railway. He also mentioned 28 or 29 level crossings, which are equipped with devices that have been installed in the past almost ten years ago, have already been installed there and that are not yet operational today. And if so, it is necessary to ask whether we do not have enough in Slovenia to make such devices. Perhaps there is no need for someone who is in the European Union, but outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, to install these devices, because we are going through them in our own circles. In the Republic of Slovenia there are some such companies that have references that have the knowledge and ability to also install road transport insurance devices within a few days. But we're in business, and that's what the candidate pointed out yesterday, with devices that haven't worked for decades, and there's a monument to someone who's done a lot in the past, a big mistake and irreparable damage when it comes to human life. As far as the building lobby is concerned, this was also taken very seriously by the Transport Minister's candidate at the presentation yesterday. Of course, no lobby or building lobby can be built within three years. Colleagues and colleagues, no one will ever say that the government has done nothing in the past 12 years. All those who repeat this in the opposition, of course, must be made clear that all governments have done their best, but some parasites have been found in the past, which, of course, for their own interest and for their own pockets, have created individual lobbyes, one of which is a prominent building lobby, of which the candidate for the Minister of Transport also spoke yesterday. With regard to the strategic partner of the Slovenian Railways, although some colleagues have repeatedly asked specific questions to the candidate, of course he was unable to address a concrete answer, because if we look from a strategic perspective, some arrangements which nevertheless dictate a shift in the public-private partnership or even a wider one, but it is not a matter of informing the public when these talks are under way. Of course, when we come to some conclusions, those who talk, negotiate and talk, and before any decision is taken, it must be in a transparent way. On this transparent way and on this partnership, the candidate gave clear answers yesterday in his views and views. It may also seem necessary to tell me that we would insult a young expert by publicly predicting today that he was avoiding answers with "I don't know", but we all know that he was really honest in those answers where he didn't have a specific answer and he honestly said, "I'm sorry, I don't know, I don't know," which is completely correct and logical. Allow me to return to what the candidate will surely be responsible for his responsibilities and employment if he receives the necessary support. Here in this House we have adopted a package of rail legislation, which, of course, is the largest supply and also represents the largest construction site in the future. However, I am convinced that it will be precisely in the field of railways and investment in public rail infrastructure, not only in a year, but also further, whatever the Minister of this important resource will be, it is necessary to know that he will be involved in investing in public rail infrastructure. To the candidate, if he gets the support he needs today, I want successful leadership and all the help he can get, because we are Members and Members who can also help a particular department. And of course, in front of people, in front of voters and voters, we are obliged to do our best for the good and well-being of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u27	Thank you. Dr. Mark Pavlich has the word. Please. [[The speaker didn't turn off the microphone.]] Mr. Marinic, please turn off the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your words and for your warning. Nice greeting to everyone, including the candidate who must be listening to us in the next room. If I wanted media attention, then I'd have to rub my tongue and spit on my candidate, criticize him and discredit him, and I don't want to do that. I will discuss "ad rem" and "ad personam" as I did yesterday on the Transport Committee. For this reason, I would particularly like to advise the candidate on how to pursue the remaining one-year term, which is still waiting for the traffic to be as user-friendly as possible. The first thing I advise him to do is to thoroughly analyse the staffing composition of the Ministry, both in his office and in the six Directorates and four bodies in the composition to be followed by the reorganisation or replacement of all those people who are not partial to their tasks. I was delighted by the candidate's statement at yesterday's hearing that he has free hands in the appointment of the Secretary of State, so I really hope that he will remain immune to all party and coalition enforcement of a variety of personnel, unless it turns out that this cadre has both political and, of course, professional qualifications. I also expressed to the Minister my wish, not only my wish, that not only should he be an official for motorways, but especially a servant, because the minister is a servant of the entire people and of its infrastructure, namely railways, roads, maritime services and aviation. Let him also avoid and beat up the building lobby and keep it straight on the ropes, for if he succumbs to the monopolistic builders, Dars, the direction for the roads, then his career will end quickly and well. And given its so far lack of confidence in the transport sector, of course it has the opportunity and, at the same time, the advantage to avoid it. The renewed team should start by re-launching transport policies and upgrading them with concrete measures and deadlines that we are currently missing. This was also pointed out by the profession at the stage of adopting this transport policy. In particular, the national road transport safety programme needs to be rewinded, as recent tragic events have turned traffic safety into a farce where we can only regain it; but at the same time we must not acknowledge our defeat. It is therefore necessary to develop a comprehensive transport strategy on transport safety in all transport sectors and at all levels, from kindergarten to home for older citizens, and to focus in particular on prevention, and there is also no need to overlook curative and repressive practices. Interestingly, the inflation of human victims in these senseless disasters is much less devastating than the economic one where the whole country trembles. Such a loss of life is for such a small nation as ours, Slovenia, not only a disaster, but something indescribably tragic, "par exile". We must therefore take advantage of every part of the social mechanisms and pay more attention to this issue. Even on occasion, if you remember, I suggested that this was such an important issue to deserve a place in the constitution. After the constitution, every human being has the right to a healthy living environment and the State has the duty to take care of this environment. Why not make a similar provision in the field of transport; it is the plague of this century. Tomorrow's minister should also consider the appropriateness of the credit method of financing transport infrastructure, which can come back to us as a headless boomerang in the near future and drive us to awe. The best team must be sent for European funds, and it is important not only that we know how to get them, but that we also know how to make our own participation possible. And it is high time for concessions and a variety of other financial products, which will probably be discussed by colleagues who are more familiar with finance and economics than I am. The next area is the exceptional opportunity of Slovenia, which has not yet been exploited, namely the fact that the 5th and 10th trans-European transport corridors cross in our country. That is why I advise the Minister to speed up the construction of the 2nd track and not allow our neighbours to bypass us by rebuilding the Pontebian railway or otherwise. Yesterday we could hear the idea of a so-called joint North Adriatic port. Great, I agree with this, but let's not repeat the story that the "kind" neighbors will ask us to bring flour, eggs and other ingredients, but when the delicious cake is cooked, there will be only a few crumbs and crumbs left for Slovenia. This is also true in the design of a possible logistics holding company. There is no problem in inviting Bavarians or other foreign investors to participate, but in an equitable, fair way, where we will all participate equally in the distribution of eggs in the golden hens, such as with Luka Koper. Until the beginning of the Presidency, the Minister should take some necessary legislative action, such as harmonising the Maritime Code and other regulations with amendments to European legislation and also adopting new international conventions, drawing attention to the decision of the European Parliament a few days ago, on the first day of the Strasbourg meeting, that all energy should be directed towards simplifying European legislation in the future. European legislation is not only becoming quantifiable but also increasingly incomprehensible to users. Law is not for lawyers, but for those who need to follow it. And let me get this over with. It is my modest assessment that all the ministers' instruments must be reconciled in the path of sustainable development. I therefore hope that it will follow my initiative, which I have given both to the Slovenian Government and to the Parliamentary Committee on Transport, to address in depth at one of the future meetings the issue and also the potential of biofuels with emphasis on biodiesel, which is well known by the candidate for a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Certainly, the transport sector is one of the most important and also quite sensitive sources. We agree with this, as our citizens and citizens, especially when we are looking at how to provide every citizen and citizen with the best possible means of transport logistics. I must say that I am very pleased with what this Government has done in this mandate, and this resource, in particular in view of the fact that a huge amount of funding has been made available to regulate state roads, in particular in terms of ensuring greater transport safety. I think that this has been one of the key moments, and the key strategies of these governments, and this sector, that much more needs to be done in this area than in the past period. Along with the very good management of the highway construction project, we have also put great emphasis on this area. When I look at the opinion on the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Transport, in which I hope, at least, the summary of the entire debate or presentation of the candidate, I would also like to point out that, in addition to what is mentioned in one of the paragraphs, the existing state road network is still considered to be unsatisfactory despite the increased investment. Large investment maintenance works on the existing network will be needed, as will the realisation of transport axes 3A and the fourth corridor. I would like to stress that we will not forget the 3B development axis. This is not mentioned here, but 3B of the development axis is included in the national budget development programme plan and also in the state budget. Surely this is one of the important projects for the area from which I come, the area of Obsotela and Kozjanska. I will certainly be looking forward to this project in the future, or to it. I think it is very important, as the candidate for a minister may have mentioned at the hearing, as he also said today in a speech by the President of the Government that the candidate will also overturn certain procurement procedures. This is not the most important question for me, it is certainly necessary to do so, but on the basis of this it will have to be somewhat more planned in future procedures. I'd like to point out the following. It is certainly very important that we adopt a two-year state budget in the National Assembly. This is certainly very important for those departments that are actually making certain investments. These investments are in fact also defined by the development programme plan, according to the four-year period. And somehow I see that in the Ministry of Transport, where there has been a lot more funding in recent years for investments, among other things, for the investments I mentioned earlier, certain interventions on state roads should also be carried out. And now we get to that segment of the building lobby. I believe that, if there is a two-year budget, then this two-year budget or two-year plan should be divided, i.e. the implementation of this, so that our construction operational will also be able to do so. In fact, this means that all companies, or all those with references, will compete equally in these calls, it is said that this implementation should be divided into time periods when construction works can be carried out. Unfortunately for us, however, I would not now condemn those who have done this or will do so in the future, but I am just warning that the time is coming, the summer comes when the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate signs 100 projects, 100 works of execution, and then construction lobbyes appear. And it will be precisely this issue that will need to be given greater emphasis in the future. I do not know why construction works are not carried out from spring to late autumn, because this is possible because weather conditions also allow it. And we can't in one year for a particular project where we don't have yet purchased land and we want to do everything in that year, or we don't have any projects. But I understand that there are lobbying others, on the one hand I will also tell the mayors, and I am the mayor himself, and on the other hand, that we want to finish a specific project in one year, and then it happens that we actually have a much greater demand for operators than we have contractors. And then it can happen, instead of having at least three or five operators present at the invitation to tender, that we eventually stay at one offer or at least two. I no longer intend to discuss the proposal for a new candidate for minister. I think this area, as I have already mentioned, is quite important. We have also adopted a so-called resolution on development policy or road policy, which is also very important. I believe that the new Minister will, in fact, work in accordance with the government's guidelines, the guidelines of this ministry, and that he will also do as much in this area as possible to ensure that our citizens and citizens are also satisfied.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Aloys Posedel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! Our group leader, Matej Lahovnik, initially presented our decision not to confirm the proposed candidate, but not to oppose his appointment. As a member of the Transport Committee, when I heard his presentation yesterday and in particular his answers to the questions raised, I would rather ask the President of the Government at yesterday's meeting whether he is really convinced that he is proposing a real candidate. At this point, I say, because we know that this mandate is coming to an end and that the Presidency of the European Union is just outside the door and that it is probably difficult to propose a candidate who has neither theoretical nor practical experience in the field of transport. It is hard to understand if we take into account his honest recognition that he has not so far met either theoretically or practically, except as a user. Taking into account 100 days of peace, half a year of the Presidency of the European Union, he will probably have only a few working days left to address the transport problems of our country. That it was very understandable, and he himself admitted that he had been allowed to learn about the problem in those few days, from which he learned that he would become a candidate. That is why he also often or most often answered the questions raised a little bit more concrete with the word "I don't know" or "I'm not sure" or "I'm going to let myself learn" or "I'll do the analysis first". There was a lot of talk yesterday, and I am also surprised how the president of the Committee on Transport could write at the end of the minutes: "The proposed candidate for minister has given all the questions raised the right answers and clarifications". It is true, he has submitted all, to every question the answer and explained whether it was appropriate or not, but probably with the answer "I don't know" is not the appropriate word "appropriate". If we just look at the minutes for another candidate, the debate is that the proposed candidate for minister has given answers and additional explanations to the questions raised. All of us who were at the meeting yesterday saw the situation, so it is also likely that the President's statement in the introduction that the candidate was confirmed by a vast majority; 9, they were held in favour of, one against, three abstention and one excusedly absent. It is likely that the problems in the transport of such rail, road, maritime and air transport are problems, and that is why we were probably expecting a more suitable candidate at this time, with all due respect, if the President proposed it at the beginning of his term of office, he would probably become a very good minister, as everyone estimated how good it was for the Minister of Transport to be neither a towler nor a railroader, nor anything else, at least a builder, and that with such experience and knowledge, he would probably become a good minister if it were at the beginning of his term, not just before the end. Therefore, our decision not to object, because all the responsibility for confirmation is borne by the coalition both yesterday on the committee and today in Parliament and that the concerns that need to be said out loud are also such that the candidate concluded his presentation yesterday on the committee with a very interesting statement: "No changes". This is certainly a nice sentence, a good thought, but for every change it is very appropriate and welcome if the one who changes has a lot of knowledge both theoretical and practical, much experience and especially time. However, at this point the proposed candidate does not have all of this, and so is our decision not to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by thanking the Minister for Transport, Mr Mag. Christmas, for the good work done in this part of the government, in Parliament, including the Transport Committee, because I believe we have successfully participated in and made radical changes in a positive direction, both in the field of legislation and in the field of motorways, Slovenian railways and there are still many positive developments. We were able to move the third development axis in the right direction, encourage and provide additional resources through the regional network of state roads in Slovenia, as well as in the area of security. But life in politics is such that these successes are sometimes not enough. Therefore, the reconstructions of the government that were, are and will be, are an instrument that will take place in this area. In this short time available, we have also been looking for the most successful new candidate for this area in the customer and in general, and I am sure that we have also found it in this very short time available. I appreciate his decision to accept the Minister of Transport nomination in the last quarter of this term of office of the Government and Parliament. This is certainly a courageous decision for a young manager, for a young expert, and at the same time it is likely a major challenge which, until the end of the term of office of this Government, can do what is expected of him within the Ministry, within the Government and also within the framework of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that this young expert will well cash this challenge in order to continue the successful work he has shown so far in the company in Prekmurje, where Prekmurc is known not only as a successful expert in the company, the manager, but also as a person like Prekmurec. These are the virtues of the man you certainly need as a minister to manage such a complex resource as the specificity of transport to which politicians, as well as citizens, are usually well-acquainted because we are daily users of this infrastructure. I think yesterday's performance by the minister was extremely positive. Positive in this spirit in particular, when he showed the direction he would go forward, both on the path of the former Minister and, of course, with his view, with his unburden as a politician, I would say, as a man who steps into this challenging political space. I think he was in his presentation, if we are objective enough, extremely correct, patient and also honest. He cannot know the questions that we as Members or mayors have known for several years. He's just going into this story, and in a few days he certainly can't get to know all the details that some of you asked him about. I don't think that's objective and correct, because it does take a few days, probably a month or more, to get to know the Ministry, the services, the employees, the individual areas of this transport, which are very difficult. However, I would like to highlight a few points from his performance, because I thought they were very appropriate and very good for a minister, such as the principle of extreme caution - caution in all important matters that will take place in the field of Slovenian Railways, Luke Koper and elsewhere. And it certainly gives one minister a good journey, one good hope that this matter will run like this. Partnership - without partnership there is no story of success, not in the local field, but even less in the state. And that thought, I think he'll be able to get involved in this thing. Special attention has been paid to security, security. There are many, many more fatalities on our roads. There is probably another new challenge for the new candidate or new minister to deepen this area, as security must be one of the priorities of this minister, this ministry, to be more successful in terms of road, rail and air and maritime safety. I am sure that he will seek, and he has also indicated, a broader consensus in politics in important decisions that he will seek both in Parliament and in committees and in the Government some support that would somehow go through the work of the Minister alone. I mean, as a candidate, he has certain advantages. First of all, I think he's transferring these management organisational skills from Lendava to the Ministry of Transport to Langus' 4. That's one big priority. Secondly, it seems to me, as I said at the presentation yesterday, that it does not come from the circles of the lobbyists of traffic, not from the railways. This is an important starting point for him to be a completely unburdened person from this area. It comes from an economy, from a single circle, and all four important resources, such as roads, railways, transport and aviation, will be equally represented and not with any traveller, as was possible the predecessor of Mr Mag. Christmas. And finally, I believe in this economic experience, which I hope that every successful entrepreneur, and this one is indisputable, can well transfer to this state administration, this system, which is sometimes a little complicated, and especially slightly different from the economic system. There are, of course, considerable differences, but I believe in this positive experience of his that he will prove them in the best interests of all of us, I hope, as his youth, knowledge that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] successfully transferred to this new team that I think will be met for the first time tomorrow at the Ministry of Transport. [[...]] In doing so, of course, I wish him much success. As I said yesterday, if I conclude with this they think that at the moment our basketball players are more than excellent in representing the colors of Slovenia and achieve unusually great results with their game, collectiveism, their knowledge and their struggle, in the last quarter of the game, usually in the last minutes, the last seconds. And if I pass this on to a candidate for a minister in this part of the government when he enters the last quarter of this term of the Slovenian Government, I am sure that he can prove with his knowledge, that he can do much for the government, much for the ministry, especially for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and that he can have a great, rich political career, not only in this term, perhaps any future or even more. I wish him a happy journey here, a great success. Tomorrow will be a new day for us and for him. And I believe that the first day will be a success, as successful as our basketball players in Spain, and I wish him, above all, good luck, Mr Minister, on this new challenge of yours, a new life path ahead of you, in my view, a bright future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Žerjav, candidate for Minister, is as he is. And the point is, he's going to be a minister. He is patient, correct and honest and sincerely I hope that these virtues will be enough to make the traffic run well, in saying of course. He's promised us something, and he's making a long promise, so we're gonna keep it. However, as to how some feel, whether his conviction was sufficient or not on the committee, I leave the assessment to each individual. He promised that he would offer social security to 9 000 employees on Slovenian railways and that Slovenian railways would not sell in the hands of a foreigner Deutschebahn, although we know that they were just in Sežana yesterday and have been in close control of the Slovenian Railway Holding for some time now, where they are reviewing the Charter of Business Success. Interesting. Germany reviews Slovenia's charters, which are very important for the economy and, of course, takes over the company. But when you talked about taking over this company, of course, that's not entirely true. I have handed over to the candidate documents in which it is clear that secret agreements are being made, this project bears the name Saturn, and in which it is written, namely in this project, that Luka Koper will also be sold 75%, Intereuropa and, of course, 49% of the railways. If that's true, then let me remind you of the story of the General Sailing, which we saved with $70 million, with a special law, and today we sold to a foreigner. It is interesting that before Mr Dole became owner in the first quarter of this year, the general voyage did not have a good result. During the second quarter of this year, the business result increased by 300% and Mr Dole has probably already paid 50 million purchases for the General Navigation. That's how we look for strategic partners. In doing so, he will sell his old ships, as we have seen in the daily newspaper, which will be more expensive than new ones. General voyages, of course. This is very good, and so will probably be the new strategic partner who will come to the Slovenian Railways, who will buy Luka Koper, Intereuropo and, of course, manage the entire transport route to the Middle East. If this is not the issue of Slovenian national interests, then what is it? We're selling state silver, and we're not ashamed of it because we're doing it in an open and honest way. You know, talk about how the candidate is good and so on and so on, that they were even better, but we found an even better option. The experiments themselves are us in this area. The Slovenian People's Party has always had candidates for the Minister, except for a small break when the LDS entered with its candidate. But there was a 70 billion big hole, I'm talking about tolars when we took over this mandate. And there's nothing better today. However, in order to address what seems to be to be to collect, we will also offer an excuse to search for strategic partners early in life to fill these national resources, such as Slovenian railway infrastructure, with state money before putting them in the hands of foreigners. That's what's going on. We have approved enormous amounts of money with the guarantee law, and tomorrow will be the owner of this infrastructure Who? [[...]] A stranger. Just like Luca Koper, who's successful. Who's gonna buy it? A stranger. If that happens, then I don't know where our honor is, our pride, and whether we have enough face to even talk about honesty. At least some of them. I think today's participation in the National Assembly is serious. Half of them are missing, three-quarters, but some of us will not give this support to this minister, because the seriousness is what it is, and the purposes are unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, I must thank Minister Mag in my name. Janez Bozič for a proper job in the past three years. Since one of the reasons for its withdrawal was also the serious traffic accidents that have occurred in the last period on Slovenian roads and on railways, I must point out that in the Slovenian People's Party and in the parliamentary group we regret any accident that occurs on our roads or on any other road, as our colleague has already pointed out in the opinion of the Group. In doing so, I would like to stress that we have a national road safety programme in place in the country. In other areas too, transport safety programmes, but unfortunately things are getting out of hand here this year. Not just because of infrastructure, not just because of issues that are not regulated in the field of transport. In particular, we are many times blamed by the drivers themselves, the participants themselves. I think that, above all, this programme needs to be given much more attention in all the areas in charge of improving transport safety. Personally, I think or believe that speeds are also allowed on our roads because of the behavior of our drivers too high. I would be a proponent or propose and easily support these maximum speeds to be reduced both on the motorway network and in the other roads. Maybe we only have the right speed inside the settlements, which I think we can keep. I think that a reduction in speed and strict control of this speed would significantly reduce the number of most serious accidents. We talk about this a lot, and I admit it a lot, rather lonely, because we have better roads and better cars, but I think that's exactly the two reasons why speed needs to be reduced. The so-called building lobby is also mentioned several times today. Yeah, they're everywhere. In other areas, too. Also in the area of health, where we always have terrible problems with investment interventions or investments. And other areas. However, I always say that responsibility for the correct procurement and for the correct implementation for the proper delivery of individual works is in the contracting authority. In this case, at the ministries, at the municipalities, at the contracting authorities. The ability of the contracting authorities is the one that also gives a proper assessment in the end, the right hands and the right performer. The builders, too, I'm a professional from this profession, but the builders are fighting for their business, for their daily bread, to give bread to such employees and the country to cut off their piece of cake. Clients, contracting teams are the ones responsible for giving each work to the correct performer and in the correct way. I'm sure he'll be a candidate for Minister of Magic. Radovan Žerjav was elected today and will also use the time remaining for a good year until the end of his term of office to develop the base. First of all, I want him to have a team around him, with which he will continue to make progress along the route, and sometimes in some detail, even on a changed path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u39	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. I would like to devote my performance to only two very important topics within the transport policy, which Mr Bozič has promised to tackle intensively in his mandate. This is the regulation or transition from personal passenger transport, from individual to public, both rail and bus transport. In particular, it is about mobility with regard to arrival at work and work, and the topic, which is for all those who drive a lot of cars across Slovenia, here we Members are also involved in the previous topic, this is personal traffic, which we are forced to carry out by car, instead of being fast, comfortable and affordable vehicles between Ljubljana and our place of stay by train or by bus. And the freight traffic that we are witnessing in transit, the data is known and I think that from day to day higher, I can say that they are calling for urgent action, that is, crossing Slovenia daily 50,000 trucks, we have heard that every truck does 33 times more damage on the drive than a passenger car, which means that daily, theoretically, mathematically calculated, Slovenia crosses a billion 650 million cars. Does Slovenia collect as much money from these trucks as it collects from a theoretical billion 650 million passenger cars to take on highways? I'm sure you don't. In addition, it is well known that rail transport causes eight times less environmental burden than freight transport by road, meaning that these 50,000 trucks would represent only 6,250 trucks if they were to transit Slovenia by rail. To imagine not only what relief this would be for road transport on the whole of Slovenia, not only in the Long Village, not only on the Obrežje, not only in Sežana and Nova Gorica, but also across Slovenia for all the people surrounded by all these trucks. Therefore, I believe that this year's new Minister of Transport should take at least the first steps necessary for the transport development strategy in Slovenia to focus on sustainable and environmentally friendly, but also, of course, on the people of Slovenia's friendly mode of transport to promise, in 2004, more precisely on 30 November 2004, the successor of a minister who too devoted himself to the construction of motorways and much less to the realization of a long-term vision of transport policy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the candidate for Minister Mag. Merry Christmas. However, I will now be brief because I would like to leave some time for my fellow Members. Above all, I would like to point out that Mr Žerjav is a young, ambitious expert with sufficient experience in the economy, with academic education and, in fact, also an education of technologist, and with his well-balanced group work, he will certainly be able, I think, to work successfully in such an important sector, which in fact still carries the weight and pesos of multi-year and multi-year irregular or poorly regulated conditions. I hope that he will not deal with day-to-day operational matters, as well as problems and problems, to form an appropriate team to protect him from such things. In his presentation, I think the candidate has made it clear that he intends to rewind the area for which he is supposed to be responsible, in particular in the sense that he has already been mentioned several times today - to ensure transparency and in fact the functioning of competition in the market in operators, as well as in designers, that he will in some way be able to listen critically to experts and also to respond critically and appropriately to the influences that are in Slovenia, in such a small country, in fact very important and unfortunately also decisive, not only on the part of the construction lobby, but also on the part of the professional lobby, which are influenced by these. I expect him to continue what has been established in some minor steps during the time of this government to think and evaluate, analyse the advantages and benefits of different mechanisms for building and financing infrastructure. Above all, I am thinking here of the public-private partnership and the instruments and securitisation mechanisms, where it is possible to activate other resources, as well as the management of this infrastructure, to be more successful, to put less pressure on the budget and, in fact, to save the country from the guarantees it provides. However, not only in the implementation of road infrastructure, but also in systems such as the tolling system, but also in the management of this transport infrastructure in the process and in the technical sense that the possibilities for implementing this will also be considered for these areas. Perhaps I would now have responded only to a discussion by a fellow SD member who, in my view, in presenting the views of the Group of Members, said quite uncritically and unknowingly that the tolling system that is now suitable for upgrades and that Slovenia should introduce microwave tolling technology in the free movement of transport due to lack of other suitable infrastructure. This is, in fact, at odds with reality. The fact is that the current tolling system is not appropriate, in fact, a set of different incomprehensible and end-of-consistent solutions and that, contrary to the said satellite location and the introduction of satellite tolling, which this Government is now implementing, does not need any specific infrastructure that is not yet in place. I strongly hope, and I have also placed this on the heart of the candidate for a minister, that with his engagement he will actually put into effect everything that is already recorded in the acts of this Government with his probably really strong experience in the economy, where implementation is in fact the most important part when the matter is conceived. I wish him a successful ministry. Finally, from this point of view, I remind Ljubljana and some people of Ljubljana that the transport sector is important both in infrastructure and in terms of transport policy and that the country is responsible for making this public passenger transport operational as soon as possible and investing not only in roads but also in railways and passenger transport within the capital. Best wishes, Mr. Candidate in your future ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I myself agree with many of the comments and suggestions that my colleagues have already made, so I will address only one segment of this issue. I'd like to add that in principle. It's getting more and more modern to talk about ministers than about managers, but I would add that it doesn't matter if someone who's a candidate for a minister, a manager from any other area, this particular area, the department he's going to run, doesn't know anything. What is more, we are now also talking about the fact that the candidates for ministers are not burdened with any segment of the area to which they are coming, which in my opinion means nothing more than an excuse for this fact that the candidates do not know anything about this department. This means that a candidate for a minister is sufficient if it is relatively good health, if the candidate for a transport minister has at least a driving licence and if the candidate or candidate for a higher education minister has at least a higher education, regardless of whether she may have obtained such an education at work, which, of course, is all commendable, but nevertheless, the sense of how the higher education institutes breathe and what the problems of the student are, which she does not know. In the area of transport so far, if I say so, there has been a significant increase in the attention given to motorways, but I would also hope to argue at the expense of national regional roads, even though we know that the safety of traffic on these regional roads is significantly lower. Of course, it is right that Slovenia has decided on such breakthrough projects in the field of motorways because we need them. However, this is also true of the facilities with which both ministers and governments are very much commended at the end of their term of office, which means that motorways are some kind of a parade horse. And I would hope to say that they have been privileged so far and that regional roads have been largely neglected and I would suggest to the Minister, the new Minister of Transport, which I will not otherwise support in order to, and this can be done in one year, but give more attention to at least some regional roads in Slovenia. By the time we build many of the villages and facilities in these villages of Pomekin with the most comfortable and dearest chairs in Slovenia in the European Union, we could probably use a more rational use of resources to build highways and tunnels to save and serve and patch up some of the regional roads. For example, because many of these things will take place in Gorenjska, when the minister at least looked at the roads there towards Bled and Bohinj and the road from Jesenic to Kranjska gora, Ratec and Korenski sit and there would also stage some of these villages. Personally, I would be very grateful to him for coming from that end, but I am also doing little to follow the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Sturm, who asked the Kransko-Korean municipality to draw him ten kilometres of asphalt from the main regional road to his private weekend in Kranjska Gora, because he will be hosting a number of dignitaries from the European Union during the Presidency of the European Union. So these dignitaries will probably have to lead to these new 10 metres of paved road along the regional road and, as it is said, would, therefore, attach their own picket line and urge the future Minister of Transport to do so, and in this way also allow those 10 metres of asphalted road of Mr Sturm to come to life in full brilliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must admit, I was surprised when I heard the news that Minister Christmas had resigned from his post. In view of the many pressures he has experienced recently, I believe that his work has been difficult, that it would be very difficult to drive all the projects he has set up, so he has decided as he has done. We know that at the time of Minister Bozič, in these three years, in fact, that there have been major movements in Slovenia both in the road area, this is said in the field of the state road cross, in the field of railways, if not at least in the legislative field, and not least in all the other departments that this ministry covers. My predecessor mentioned the problem of roads in Gorenjska. I must say, in Gorenjska, this matter has improved significantly in recent years. The fact is that in Gorenjska we have started projects of regional importance for Gorenjska in these years. This is, for example, the Bled Oblast and the Škopheloški Oblast, which is rapidly building a highway connection and, lastly, was born in addition to the third development axis, the third development corridor, which connects Gorenjska via the Poljanska Valley with Primorsko. Finally, I also believe and agree with Mrs Lavtijareva that certain sections in Gorenjska are still problematic. Some of them are in the development programme plan for the following years, but we both surely agree that there will be a great deal of work to be done in this area. On this occasion, on my own behalf, and not least on behalf of my constituents in Gorenjska, I would sincerely thank Mr Bozic for the great work he has done in this area. I will support the new candidate for Minister of Transport. I will support him in particular because it is an unwritten letter, and I am sure that he will be in his determination, in his courage, because not only the minister of transport candidate, but also the two other candidates for ministers, I admire their courage to take over these ministries at this stage. I am sure that this courage will guide them in this direction and help them to be successful ministers. I am sure that Mr Žerjav, Minister of Transport, will also be a successful minister. He did not predict any revolutionary changes, of course they are not possible in one year. He was talking about upgrading what had been accomplished so far and, of course, about faster solutions to certain problems that could not be solved in these three years. I am also convinced that, like Minister Bozič, he will take care of the equitable development of the road network in Slovenia, so that Mr Žerjav will continue his work and, of course, on this occasion, I wish him a successful work in such a responsible and state-of-the-art work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u48	Thank you for your words, Mr President, the House of Respect! The government is in a kind of crisis. With the voluntary departure of three ministers: for health, transport and science, only a few neurological points in the executive branch are being tried. However, a broader reconstruction of the Government would be necessary, but one year before the end of the mandate, I wonder whether this is even more reasonable, especially in the light of the fact that the Government will be mainly engaged in the problems of the European Union in the first half of 2008 and the problems at home will be covered by the carpet. I think the Prime Minister should have done it sooner. An unwritten rule that the government has 100 days of peace on its appearance by the opposition cannot be taken over automatically even with this smaller reconstruction of the government. Given that the opposition, during the Presidency of the European Union, is supposed to take a constructive attitude towards the government and not propose an intervention against ministers, or propose a non-trust to the President of the Government, this would mean that the future three ministers would have a complete peace almost by the end of their term of office. With the candidates proposed by Prime Minister Janez Janša, the fact that he is not a magician is particularly clear. Radovan Žerjav, as a candidate for the Minister of Transport, and not Zofija Mazej Kukovic, as a candidate for the Minister of Health, about the substantive problems in the departments they will run, is not sufficiently taught, let alone to be an expert in these areas. They're both from the economy, they're both managers, but time will show whether that's enough to run ministries. Minister Mag. In his mandate, I raised 15 parliamentary questions, at least half of them related to the so-called fourth development axis, and the fact that the Government unjustifiably excluded Keltika from the project, a road link from Posač via the Idrian-Cerkljan region connected to the highway cross in Logatco. It took two years and an infinite number of activities for the Government to listen to our arguments and finally promise to include in the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007 - 2023 the Idrija-logic part of the fourth development axis, the Celtic road, which ends on the Idrija River valley, through Lower Idrija and Idrija on the Logatco motorway. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore promised in July not only that, when re-examination of the national development resolution 2007-2023 was first considered, the modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes would also include the modernisation of the Idrija-logic foot of the fourth development axis, but would also ensure co-financing of this route from the cohesion funds of the European Union for Slovenia. It will therefore be necessary to complement the national strategic reference framework for the period 2007-2013 and the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure, which the Government has already sent to Brussels. I hope he's the future Minister of Mag. Radovan Žerjav also implemented this and thus fulfilled the provisions set out in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia and in the resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. As an opposition member, I cannot give the minister the money. We will not support the reconstruction of the Government in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Finally, we voted against the Government in December 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One of our colleagues stated, in explanation of his position, that at the time of this government's appearance, the high expectations of citizens and citizens in all areas were justified. This also applies to the area of transport. I agree with that position. Indeed, even in the field of transport there were many things that were not good, which needed to be corrected, which was far from ideal. The transport system in Slovenia has evolved according to some of its laws. We didn't know how, we didn't have any strategy, no document to regulate it. We expected to enter the European Union in the road area completely unprepared. The real chaos started on the roads, we remember only the problems of the locals and all the others living in the area of Prekmurje, border crossings with Hungary. Let us recall that, after 20 years at the beginning of this government's mandate, the construction of a freeway was barely in some hazy documents and in indefinite timeframes. The railway infrastructure is completely obsolete. Toll system, not to speak, a system that's not even a system. An unfinished second track of the Divača-Koper railway line, which should have been built in 2000 under the national rail infrastructure development programme. State roads are completely neglected. Another example, Maribor Airport, after several years of effort, the airport was virtually closed because there was no agreement with the country on status and ownership arrangements. Today, in Slovenia, for the first time in Slovenia, we have adopted a resolution on transport policy, which in some way regulates this area, motorways are being built as never before in Slovenia, financing for the construction of motorways across Slovenia, not to mention the pre-murishing area, where there is actually only one construction site, and the freeway has finally begun to build physically from Slivnica to Dražets. The first major reconstruction works also began on Slovenian railways. At the end of last year, two major contracts were signed, each with almost 10 billion in European funds. The government has finally taken a decision on the toll system to make some order in this area in due course. Of course, we are aware that all the mistakes of 10 years and more ago cannot be fixed within two, three years, but it will take some time. It is true that at the presentation yesterday, it was repeatedly mentioned that it is a very demanding resort, financial, human resources, organisational. I myself see these changes in order to maintain some pace in this area, some momentum that is needed to make up for what has been missed in the past. As far as the candidate himself is concerned, mag. Eating, the main obvious is that he is too young to have experience in these areas. I don't think it's that critical. If we ask ourselves, what is he actually going to do? He'll run the ministry, organize the work, coordinate the work, supervise, coordinate the work with the other ministries. And this is a management job, including a management job, which the candidate we're dealing with here today is pretty sure to handle. The fact that he's not an expert in the transport field, I don't think he's that short. In the final stage, it is not necessary for a top surgeon to be a good hospital director. Above all, he convinced me because he stressed that he would advocate transparency of business and that he would also place great emphasis on security itself. Life is the most precious thing, and then I support it. Therefore, it is my view that this candidate is suitable for the Minister and I will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Skolč has the word, instead of Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This rapid reconstruction of the government that we are witnessing certainly sheds light on the problems facing the coalition and in which the Prime Minister of the Government came with his team. At the beginning of this debate, Mr Marinič said that it must be permissible for the President of the Government to assess at any time that this is necessary and to reach out to this instrument of reconstruction. I agree with that. The way this reconstruction has been carried out, however, in some ways makes it impossible to discuss why this has occurred. This is about, I'll say, a rather clumsy move by the President of the Government, who convinced his ministers to step down. What did they get in return? In return, they received the President's explanation to the public that they were doing very well, that there were no problems in their areas, but that they had to leave because of the opposition's suspense and so that they could better focus on some of the key objectives. Who can believe such an explanation? You could say, not even the kids in kindergarten, if that's what they're really interested in. Why do I think it is wrong that it is not possible to discuss the problems of the coalition, as was possible when Minister Drobnič was dismissed? He, too, had the suggestion to resign. He didn't do it. Whether it was smart or not, it's irrelevant right now. In doing so, however, it allowed Parliament to discuss those problems that were in its area. Ministers who have left do not deserve any special praise, nor do they, because it is not possible to discuss transport problems or problems in the other two areas. This is already worth saying when we thank them for the work they have done. When we talk about reconstruction, the question is, of course, whether it is not actually with this set that the President of the Government wanted to close discussions on the problems in other areas. The Ministry of Culture is in total dispersion. The problems of regulating relations with Croatia are zero and lower. But we can't, because we're not discussing the reconstruction of the government, we're talking about it. And President Janša has given his two friends great protection by making these quick-moving changes. This is also true in this type of manoeuvre that I use the language that the President of the Government and his colleagues understand and implement in the National Assembly. At least I don't know enough about candidate Zerjav himself to go on any level, either to praise him or I don't know what he expected. However, what is evident from the magnetogram of the hearing is not overly encouraging. And that worries me. Of course, the President of the Government and the coalition cannot be saved by this saving thesis that the resources are taken over by the managers. What kind of management takeover is that? Look, for managers, it's typical that if they go into an area, they know this area. It is typical for managers to take over a company, so to speak, they know the problems and plans of this company. And it is typical for managers to present solutions for these areas to those who employ them. If you're talking about managers coming, then you have to say you're trying to pull the Slovenian public's nose. None of these three assumptions are met. The Minister's candidate freely admitted that he did not really know all the necessary things about this area, that he did not even know what was going on there and even gave no solutions to the problems in this area. Perhaps it is really irrelevant or knows the exact number, I will say, of trucks going through this biggest road and border bulkhead in Slovenia, red is unusual because the whole of Slovenia was monitoring road closures in this area because all of Prekmurje stood on his feet and demanded certain solutions because it was practically happening in the yard of the factory where this manager worked successfully. I don't believe the manager can do very well without knowing what's going on in his backyard fence. So much for this big management formula. There's nothing managerial about that takeover. But if you're saying that, then you're also implying that, under such assumptions, even the renter is called the Government and its President, does not act as a caring master. No owner would hire a manager who doesn't know the area and the problems he needs to solve. John Janša is happy to do so, so I wonder if he did so to cover up other problems. There is another level, which is the lowest level, which I understand and what I see in all these 15 years of understanding the position of ministers and governments. It has not yet happened that one of the main qualities that we recognize as ministers is that we appreciate that they freely speak that they do not know the area to which they apply. This is obviously one of these things that we must be satisfied with knowing that we are dealing with strangers who are willing to learn. What does that mean? See, the Constitution only defines the position of the Government and ministers in at least three articles where such behaviour is worrying. Article 110 states that the Government and individual ministers shall be independent and accountable to the National Assembly within their respective powers. How someone will be independent in an area they don't know. He'll depend on someone. How he will be independent and how he will reach this assumption of coalition partners that he must be detached from some lobby if he does not know the area. Ignorance and ignorance do not allow for autonomy. There hasn't been one. Article 114 states that ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the government and each minister for the work of his own ministry. That's a very similar question. How can he be responsible for - how can he take responsibility for a ministry he does not know? How can we trust him when he sits behind this chair tonight and says, "I swear I will act in accordance with the constitution," etc.? That's what I'm asking you. How do you believe that if they tell you they don't know what they're getting themselves into? Finally, we have an instrument of presentation or hearing before the working body, which is defined in Article 112, which says that the proposed minister must present himself before appointment to the competent committee of the National Assembly and answer its questions. The point of this provision is to see whether a person is at home in an area for which he is responsible. No one else makes sense of this provision. That's what I'm hoping to say, because I was also in that national assembly that adopted this constitution. As I may say, so we put three constitutional provisions on the appointment of ministers in vain and whether it really matters what happens to the constitutional position of the government and its members. Why are we going to this circus if we don't respect very clearly the provisions in the constitution? In short, I think it is time for a serious debate on the reconstruction of the government and also the responsibility of the first man of this government and that he cannot, I will say, save this from the flashes of the upcoming EU Presidency. If the coalition will get rid of this presidency, and leave all of this to the momentum we are witnessing now, then Slovenia is very poorly spelled out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. My question, or expectations, with the support of the Transport Minister's candidate go primarily towards the construction of the highway, particularly at the critical work in Dolenjska, which is through the municipality of Trebnje, which all former governments have become "the Devil of the Cross". This government took a bite into this "acid apple" and quickly saved the road's path as well as promised - or Minister Bozič promised me every time in this room that this section would also be dedicated to traffic in the following year. I also learned several times this year from the media that the calls were that they were chosen operators, but work has not yet started. I wonder why this stopped, because it's winter outside the door, and next year it's supposed to turn itself in. I expect the future minister to examine what is in this area, what is with the invitations, what is with the parts. Above all, I no longer agree to this eternal guarantee of Darsa for a year, two before the start of construction, that the money is running out, because we know that the construction of motorways in Slovenia is the most expensive. Otherwise, when I listen to the Members, I think you will have a significant one year to carry out all the projects and that you will need at least another mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u55	Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After Mr Bručan had fallen, after Mr Zupan had fallen, Mr Bozič also had to leave because of party proportionality. He took objective responsibility correctly; I think he is the least guilty among these three ministers. However, he had to leave mainly because, together with Minister Bajuk and the Prime Minister of the Government, they failed to enforce what the Ministry of Transport was supposed to be: that is, the Ministry of All Transport, not the Ministry of Motorways. What did we get? We received a proposal from an inexperienced, expert in other fields of qualified Master Žerjev, who does not really know much about the subject, as was evident yesterday. I regret that today, the President of the Government has informed us that he has waived the right to propose another candidate for the Minister of Health or Transport. I would advise Mr Žerjav to take a very close look at how, above all, with fellow ministers, Prime Minister Bajuk, and others, he will do something that will significantly change the transport policy in the last year of this government's mandate. I hope that Mr Žerjav will be able to move some cranes from the construction of highway viaducts to the construction of railway infrastructure. I hope it will ensure that Galileo's headquarters in Slovenia, in Brdo, in the technology park. I hope that in financing the state budget, as the studies say, it will return the co-financing of the highway programme so that we do not burden our grandchildren and grandchildren with repaying credit. I hope that the crossing of the 5th and 10th corridor will remain in Slovenian hands and will not sell it to the first one who will pass even from the country that has chaired before us because of the commitments made by John Janša or any promise. I hope that it will stop too expensive, too expensive to build roads at a time when construction infrastructure in large demand clearly raises prices, and I hope that it will meet the promise of Janez Janša, who said two years ago in the Savinja-Shales region: "In the summer of 2008 we will start building a third development axis." This promise will not be fulfilled by John Janš. The victim for not fulfilling this promise will be Mr Žerjav. That's why I'm afraid he doesn't know what he's getting into. And at the end of the toll in the free course; the tolling in the free course is a grave intervention into human rights, and I would like to see him who will set up the toll station before Grouple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! I expect that this debate to be heard somewhere by candidates or candidates for the Minister of Transport, and in this sense I will not talk about what the former Minister has done or what he is now, but I would like to put the issue of tolling first of all to the new Minister. And I would like to tell him that, given that there is a continuity between the previous minister and this minister, at least through the client line, we will also require and expect him to do what Minister Bozič promised, which is to resolve the issue of tolling, fair tolling and introduction, the experimental introduction of electronic tolling in early 2008. This is what Minister Bozič has repeatedly promised, he has made public when we have asked this issue very seriously in the face of a possible dilemma, or Slovenia would not otherwise start to regulate this area with vignettes. A study was carried out and only assuming that electronic tolling was introduced in 2008, this was slightly more advantageous with all calculations and due respect. Of course, we all know well what this tolling is like in Slovenia, that it is an extremely messy, extremely shameful story. I think that this is the brunt of Slovenian stupidity, now that people are traveling more, they can see that, of course, this matter is also wasteful and unfair. We have and are standing in a whole range of frontal toll stations, polluting vehicles environment, we have an unfair system that completely releases certain regions from this system, on the other hand we have regions that are completely vacated and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Of course, we also have significantly lower traffic safety due to the spillage of many toll vehicles that avoid toll payments. [[...]] In short, I expect the new minister to do these things: no matter what happens, no matter what the time is short, because otherwise the entire Slovenian public was misled when two years ago, when the possibility of a temporary introduction of guilt was still possible, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] she was in a way professionally convinced that it would be better to stay the way she is, because electronic tolling is just before labor. [[...]] That's what I want, and I hope it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Bozic, who is leaving this situation under some pressure, because the department he ran is very demanding. If we look into the past, we left the former country with an unenviable transport system, either on the road or on the railway infrastructure. And just at the time of Minister Bozič's ministry, some major major movements were made. In addition to re-energizing highway construction, Minister Bozič also gave great emphasis to connecting roads, i.e. roads that continue traffic when you get off the highway. In this way, it has received the fourth development axis of some obises and will appear to be a reality, as some stages of the fourth development axis have already begun to be built. In addition, rail transport has long received greater attention or greater intervention and will thus gain meaning. Of course, it is also necessary to mention at this time the modernisation of Jožet Pučnik's airport - in addition to preparing for the Schengen transport regime, only the airport has experienced much of the necessary reconstruction and is already successfully involved in international transport. What do I expect from the new minister? Above all, I expect intensive work in the railway area, because there are 5 and 10 corridors across Slovenia, and above all it is important that they also cross in Slovenia. So an important point of transition from 5th to 10th rail corridor, which gives Slovenia great opportunities for a larger piece of bread in the logistics field. Slovenia must certainly take advantage of this advantage. Of course, rail infrastructure also includes support logistics so that we can offer services in the package and thus give the opportunity to Jožet Pučnik Airport and especially Luka Koper. In the work of the Committee on Foreign Policy, we see great interest in Luka Koper in meeting various delegations, because [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The port of Koper can be a starting point for many countries, because it lies along a strong railway corridor, when the intersection of both corridors is taking place in Ljubljana, and this is a unique opportunity and they want to take advantage of or show interest in many countries, such as Brazil, Turkey, especially [[...]] [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Other Mediterranean countries. [[...]] For all the above reasons, I certainly support the Minister's candidate and wish him the best possible work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Drofenik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. The replacement of Minister Christmas surprised me to some extent. The period of Minister Bozič's ministry would be marked as very successful, in particular in view of the accelerated implementation of the motorway programme on the one hand, and, on the other hand, particularly important, during this period or during this period, a significant number of resources have been allocated to address bottlenecks and black spots on the state road network. I am convinced that in the Republic of Slovenia, with a more repressive penal policy, it is only possible to reduce the number of victims in transport by improving the state road network. I would also point out that, during the Minister's ministerial meeting, the necessary railway legislation was adopted or harmonised, and an appropriate railway development strategy was adopted, including an assessment of the necessary investments in the coming years. This also means an appropriate strategy for the future modernisation of rail transport. I hope and I am sure that the Minister's candidate will be able to start upgrading Slovenian railways during this period. I believe that the election of Prime Minister Janez Janša is when he proposed mag. Merry Christmas, good one. I would like to point out that this is a young, well-educated manager - but I do not think we should take this in the negative - which is not currently connected to such or other transport, construction and any other lobbying. I am confident that he will insist on objectivity and fairness and will continue in the Government and in this Parliament the adopted development policy in all areas of the transport sector. Finally, let me say that I will be happy to raise my hand for the appointment of Mr Žerjev as Minister of Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I must say, when I listen to this debate today, that I am quite embarrassed: on the one hand, many praises and recognitions to Mr Bozic for his work so far. I would certainly agree with this, but it is obvious from this debate that then the President of the Government decided to make a mistake when he replaced someone who was doing his job in such a simple way. That's the question. And the second dilemma is what this substitution is. I don't know the new candidate. I have read twice "hearing" and this is very surprising to me when it is repeatedly written there that the candidate is not an expert in this area, that he does not know this area. In some other times, which most of the people in this national assembly have always existed, they have been especially aware of the fact that it does not matter whether it is written or not, whether it is ours or not. And now apparently the minister is not just a political minister, the minister should be a highly professional person, we put on top of that political likeness and belonging. I do not agree with this and it is not the task of the opposition Members to confirm such ministers. However, I wish the gentleman, as did the gentleman who has done his work in the past, good luck in this work. He will also need knowledge if he is to solve the many problems that have arisen in this country in the field of roads. We've heard a lot about tolling, what and how to organize it. I must say that the main thing that bothers me about touring is that it is endlessly expensive. As much as one of our citizens or citizens pays in a few hours to drive from Kopa to Maribor and Murski Sobota to that short section, this is incomparable to Europe. Our roads are just too expensive. However, they are expensive because we obviously build them large or in a fast political way, and therefore we need always new and new amounts of money that we use online from the pockets of our citizens and citizens and our guests. I don't think that's right. Electronic tolling - a more honest story, but when we go to tolling, of course, the largest share of the burden will be taken over by other state, local and municipal roads and these roads will have to be given significantly more attention, for even in all local communities there is insufficient money for normal maintenance of roads, for sidewalks, for cycling routes, which are an essential element of safety. I will be happy if, with the new ministry, we get more money and more money in the local communities and in the municipalities for what is most urgent. Then I would remind him of that well-known promise that we all made at the beginning of this mandate to think about a single ticket, both for bus transport and in combination with the railway. If we want to be European comparable, then a single ticket on this system applies both to bus traffic of all companies, all producers and also to the combination with rail transport. Then there's what I'm worried about. By the end of the ministry, there has been a few years left, and I think that for someone who knows the area poorly, there will be no time to get to know and to work effectively. While I do not support the Minister as an opposition Member, this is the task of others, but I wish him good luck in this challenging and responsible function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u66	Thank you, Chairman. There's not much time left for what I'd like to say, but I'm afraid I won't be able to do anything. I begin where the Minister was spoken of by the Prime Minister, Mr Janša. He said, "The candidate has expressed his willingness to overwind certain procurement procedures." So, he expressed his willingness, he didn't guarantee that he was going to overwind. In this situation, it is important to provide assurances, but he has expressed his willingness to overturn certain procurement procedures. That's one blue statement. And two: "The candidate himself feels traffic problems because it comes from Prekmurje." So, two arguments for the President of the Government saying this is the right candidate for the Minister of Transport. Well, at least I don't see these two criteria as so important as to assess the Minister's ability to do so. As has already been said, the minister's candidate answered many questions at the hearing. Mr. Bajc, the chairman of the committee, counted them to be 26. Of these 26 I got very few exact answers, but mostly the answers of the type "I will check," "I will examine", "I will agree" or "I don't know", "I don't know" and so on. Unfortunately, this is the basis for me to make the same decision as I have announced in the opinion or position of the Group of Members. There are so many open issues in the transport system, so many neurological points that one minister can't solve them within three quarters of a year, and this minister can solve them even less at the time we will be chairing them, not because he will obviously have to familiarise himself with the system first. If I comment only on the developments relating to the rail transport system. The fact is, we passed two laws. Both laws are bad, both the Rail Traffic Act and the Rail Safety Act, and the consequences are felt. The consequences of accidents are felt and the consequences are felt in the organization. And when we talk about two institutions based in Maribor, the Agency for Public Railways and Directorates, both institutions are inadequately managed, not because at least some positions would not be the right director. There is a real director on the Directorate, but there is no possibility of affecting the procedures under way at the Ministry. And speaking of the agency, the previous government has appointed one director, Mr Sharpe. This Mr. Shara has no idea what he's actually done. However, it has taken over a very difficult area of railway safety. There they hired a manager who comes from Ljubljana, drives to Maribor and takes more time to drive than to study and judge what he has to do. When we talked about "firnkka" and about Maribor Airport - so Mr candidate for Minister did not give any concrete answer. I wanted to hear if, at the time we will be chairing the European Union, Maribor will take over all the flights that Brnik will not be able to carry. Well, I didn't get an answer. So I want to, and I will keep saying that I want the Minister's statement when the Minister will be what the Maribor airport will be at this time. When we asked about "firnka", he argued that these procedures had to be carried out by the Minister for the Environment, but he forgot that both of them were from the People's Party, he forgot that both of them were bound to conduct spatial planning procedures to get this weight and this dynamic that they should have. I'm sorry. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable representative of the government. Maybe you'd start by saying that someone who asks a lot of questions knows a lot. But today's opposition Members need to know a lot about road construction, because the highway construction programme has not been completed since yesterday - this has started a long time ago - and it is true that it has not yet been completed. But this completion date is somehow getting closer to us. I think that the future Minister of Transport is listening to us, so I also took the floor because in this short performance I would like to convey to him a message, of course, on this occasion when the Members of the ruling coalition will appoint him as Minister. This is certainly not blind leadership, as he said, I think my colleague Peca, but the responsibility of the government coalition, that, with all these criticisms that we hear from the opposition, we should make it possible to appoint a new minister to the vacant post, which does not mean that we will accept with open hands everything he proposes in the future. I also agree that the construction of Slovenian roads is too expensive and that I am already in this National Assembly and have said several times in the previous term, but that it is too expensive and that one building lobby has been created in this country, of course, is not a matter that would have arisen yesterday. This is a matter that goes far back, in the period when we actually started building a highway program and when it was actually allowed that certain companies in this country were designed so that today little of all these works are also carried out and somehow dictate the pace in this area. I hope that this one year's future minister will be able to do some of this and possibly set up a follow-up for the next period, in which a somewhat different, more transparent operation will take place in this area. It may also be a big fault that we did not actually start building a section in Slovenia when we did this programme in a concessional way so that we could compare the issue. But what I would like to say to the future minister is that I expect - like the Members coming from different regions, at least cheers for their end, if I say so, for their environment, but I expect the Minister to stick to this National Assembly of the adopted national programme for the construction of motorways. And if he adheres to this program, he will, in effect, do as this National Assembly expects him to do. We know that in accordance with this programme, motorways have been accelerated and so have some constructions on certain sections. We all want Slovenia to be connected as soon as possible with the highway cross, but this national programme also sets priorities for the construction of fast roads and one of those that should have started already in 2007 and not started, is the fast road Slovenska Bistrica-Ptuj-Ormož. This is kind of a substitute for the highway, which was originally or initially planned, right against this work as a panonic. Before 2000, the National Assembly changed this and in 2002 we completed the national programme for the construction of motorways and placed this road in the national programme. As I have already said, in 2007 this road should start to build, unfortunately because of the problems with Natura 2000 it did not start, but it promises - and I hope that the future or new transport minister has also stuck - to start building this road in 2008. I say this because it is at this very time that a programme is being prepared for next year. And let me say two, three words about railways, because that was also problematic. This was criticized before me by my colleague, Squeakl, who usually speaks the same way. Therefore, it is important for the Slovenian public to say that the project of modernisation of railways on the financial side is so large that, of course, Slovenia from budgetary financing simply cannot. So here it is necessary to find a competent partner and through what we are informed, the Government at this work and I very much support this definition that such a partner is found to also acquire European funds, other investors' funds, because it is simply too small for all these needs and all the requirements that this country has ahead of it. It is estimated that up to €9 billion would be needed to modernise Slovenian railways, which are urgently needed. That's a lot of money. And it's about accidents on the railways. This latter should also lead to the Minister's decision to offer a derogation, which was then accepted by the President of the Government. I am not exactly that opinion, because with the Andrej Cross there are numerous railway crossings and only in the area of the municipality from which I come from, I think that at least 11 of them at this point and in the perspective, it is planned that this situation will improve in the future with these 11 unprotected or with the Andrej crossing of protected railway crossings when the railway is upgraded. Mr. Minister, I will, of course, support the candidate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary-General, with my colleagues. I will start a slightly different presentation of my position or how I will decide at the end of the session, namely - God protect us from self-declared experts and their statements, and do not take responsibility for the implementation of the Ministry of Transport programme and who are familiar with everything and who know everything about everyone. At the meeting of the Transport Committee as well as at today's meeting, I have heard quite a few deep debates about potential and potential candidates for future ministers, and I hope that the heads of their parties have listened to them and that the second year of election will make the selection of these candidates significantly easier than was possible three years ago. With regard to the responses of the candidate for Minister, Mr Žerev, at the meeting of the committee - I am sure that he has answered all the questions raised as much as possible. It is a candidate for a minister and it is not a minister who has been intertwined, who should know all the legislation that has been adopted, which is being implemented and which is possibly in preparation. If that were the case, I'd say, "No, he didn't answer all the questions." One of the colleagues said in the debate that I was recording the questions. That's right. This colleague asked the candidate 26 questions. Of these 26 questions, I think I noticed that there were 14 of them specifically on some numbers, how many, when and even then was surprised when the candidate answered when he asked how many trucks arrive a month at the border crossing in Slovenia, I think, Doga Vasa. And he said, according to his knowledge, that's about 130,000. And he said, "No, 112!" And the candidate replied that he had some outdated information. In short, in view of the presentation, given the knowledge and interviews I had both as a Member and as a member of the party that proposed Mr Žerev, and not least as the chairman of the committee, I think that, at the time that he accepted this challenge, he will take over the management of this ministry for a short time, of which even six months, when our country will preside over the EU, I will gladly support his candidacy. But it is up to us to help him, I will say, in all areas, in accordance with his knowledge, that this remaining mandate will be successfully implemented. Not only for his own benefit, not only for the benefit of the party she proposed, but especially for the citizens of this country, our beautiful Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! From this place, I would also like to say first as a member of the joint monitoring committee for the construction of the foothills of the motorway, that we have worked well with Minister Christmas. Whenever he was invited to the meetings of this committee, whose member I am, including my colleague, Mr Mario Possonec, he always came, unless there was any obligation in Brussels. We have done a lot with regard to the acceleration of the construction of the foothill of the highway. We have done a lot in the area of so-called short-term measures on G1-3 Lendava-Maribor in terms of increased safety, in terms of moderation of traffic. This road has been invested in this mandate of EUR 17 million. That should be highlighted. If we're talking when they're a magician. Some opposition MPs said they would not ask for it precisely, but they wanted the exact number of trucks passing through the border crossing of the Long Village - it is not really important to me whether it is 100,000 or 130,000 or 200,000; it is largely too much. And that is why it is imperative that this minister too - I am sure that he will receive support - mag. Crane was trying to get the actual pomur's leg open as soon as possible. I don't care about the number of trucks, but it's important to me that today at least one litre of diesel fuel burns on every running meter of G1-3 and then you can imagine what this thing means in organic health and other ways. I have really followed the extraordinary pressures on all ministers, on the whole government, and especially on Minister Bozič, who has decided that under such pressure the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot work and has made the right move. The perception that he was too connected to some construction lobby, the reading of his mind, is an act that I condemn. For this we have in the state of the institution which have control, which also has instruments of sanctioning if, of course, any fraud is detected. But it's rude to speak up. I expect the Minister to be a magician. Žerjav realized all the directions we adopted in this National Assembly and will understand that the Slovenian logistics system is part of the European logistics system. I wish him much success and happiness on his part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Check-in is on. Two panellists have been reported. They've got five minutes each. Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, the Government is with its co-workers and the distinguished Vice-President of the National Assembly! I, too, would like to start by thanking the efforts made so far and also the work of Minister Bozič and also the Government, because in this three-year period the environment from which I come has been made more than in all the years. We know that the economy of Dolenjska, White Krajina, has always been expecting mainly motorway connections and that until the start of this government there was no way to realize it. Only this government, and with the help of this minister, has this Gordy knot been cut off, and today we are before the construction of this highway connection is completed somewhere and is expected to be completed in the following year. That's what's most important to the environment I come from, and that's what we all want. Not only will the economy become easier and faster to develop, but there will also be fewer victims on the road, which is all the more safe. What do we expect now from the minister we will now, at least I believe so, also confirm? It is certainly a priority for our environment, as well as for me, that all these projects are also trying to conclude with this or even faster dynamic. It means that the plans will also come true. The next, which is equally important, and especially for the White Country, is the early placement and also the beginning of parts of the so-called third development axis. White landscape as part of Slovenia is certainly an area where motorway connections will enable it to communicate more quickly with central Slovenia and with Europe as well. So here is the priority that we are expecting, and I believe that the candidate for minister will also have this as one of the priorities. I will also support him, because his explanation, which I have read in the magnetogram, I myself assess that he is capable of contributing to the preservation or even acceleration of the dynamics of all the objectives already set, and in particular that those objectives already defined in the national programme will also be prepared and implemented. So, regardless of his lack of experience directly from this ministry, I myself assess that this is not the most necessary or that this is an urgent condition. Here there is a need for managerial experience, here it is necessary to have such an approach that will be able to motivate and attract all those experts in this area to pursue the objectives set together. I think that, given the success he has shown so far in running companies, he will succeed. I wish him good luck, and once again, my support will surely come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present, to the Prime Minister and to the ministers and to you, dear fellow workers! I am pleased to welcome the fact that the parties and the Prime Minister have finally found a candidate for Minister in our Minister of Transport as well. This is an area that needs the most comprehensive treatment in Pomour. The candidate is a highly regarded, educated and active technical expert, who also appreciates and respects the environment from which he comes. It has also proven itself in a leading position so far. From everyday traffic, he has in practice learned about traffic problems, is waiting for him to solve and complete the 10th corridor, both in road and rail, and to solve the freight traffic that is choking the village and the already built part of the highway. I hope that with just the same elan he will undertake new tasks as we have been accustomed to him, and I know that he will not have an easy job and that it took a lot of courage and will to accept these new challenges. I will support him in the vote. On this occasion, I would like to thank Minister Mag. Janez Bozič for extremely good cooperation and for everything he did during his ministry, what was in his power to make up for the backlog that came before his performance as minister. We can thank Minister Bozic that the Premur autocrat is just before completion. I also wish him a successful career in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on the defensive proposal of a candidate for the Ministry of Health. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed to the National Assembly on 5 September 2007 that Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic be appointed Minister of Health. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janša, to further explain the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to add a few other things to the written explanation of the proposal for Minister of Health, Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic, in this short oral introduction. The problems faced by the Ministry of Health in this mandate, and to a large extent before, did not concern the health profession itself. At this level, Slovenia has a highly trained healthcare system, which is on or above the European or global average. According to the quality of the health system, Slovenia is placed at the heart of the European Union. And the problems encountered here are not of a professional nature or of a professional nature. These are problems of an organisational, financial, public financial, management nature and, therefore, after the resignation of Minister Bručan, we have sought a solution in this direction and I think the proposal is appropriate. Health or health care is a value, it is a shared responsibility, it is not just the responsibility of doctors or healthcare professionals, it is also the responsibility of users of health services and civil society organisations involved. Perhaps this view by civil society or by the user was too little in this balance of perspectives that is necessary for a system to run well. Given that, I do not know on what basis, but, in recent days, as well as at the presentation of the candidate on the parental committee, there have been many observations, although it is not from the profession that she has not studied medicine, I would like to say that in the world and especially in the European Union where we belong, there is no rule that the Minister or Minister of Health is a doctor or a doctor. On the contrary, among health ministers or ministers in the European Union are the majority of ministers or ministers who do not have such an education. This is because the ministerial function is somewhere between political and managerial functions, and these two skills are most needed. As far as the profession is concerned, you should know how to engage her in your work. Well, let me not be equally flattened in the rejection of these flat-rate readings, allow me to read countries with health resources covered by ministers or ministers who do not have such an education. In Belgium, the Minister of Health is an economic engineer, in Cyprus, a biologist, in Denmark a lawyer, in Estonia a lawyer and a diplomat of political sciences, in Ireland a diplomat of modern studies, in Italy a philosopher, in Luxembourg a journalist, in Germany a teacher, in Portugal a lawyer, in Romania an economist, in Sweden a teacher and in the United Kingdom or in the United Kingdom a union associate. These are the profiles of ministers or ministers of health in the countries of the European Union. Well, there's a veterinarian in Latvia, for example. Thus, 16 countries do not have this profile on this site, and this is not a rule that should be so - even in view of the debate on the candidate for Minister of Transport, which has been reported to him, I must say that this is not a matter of substance or some essential point. According to this logic, the Minister of Defence should also be a soldier, the Minister of the Interior a police officer and so on. Slovenia already has so much experience with different mandates and governments and different profiles that we can finally start to compare ourselves with the developed countries of the European Union even after this pay. But... [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] At the end of this additional explanation, I should recommend and appeal to you to support her after this discussion. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Committee on Health and responded to a question raised by the members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the Committee, which concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. I give the floor to Mr Ljubo Germić, President of the Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, forwarded the proposal for a Minister of Health to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 5.9.2007. Ms Zofija Mazej Kukovič, proposed as Minister of Health, presented herself to the competent Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health and responded to questions raised by its members and members. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate for the Minister stressed that she was served as the main source for learning about this area: the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Coalition Treaty, the European Union health system and the draft national healthcare programme in the Republic of Slovenia. Its focus will be on establishing good communication with all those involved in the healthcare system, especially with citizens. Another important area will be investment in health, in particular from the point of view of planning these investments, public procurement and the financial evaluation of these investments, which are subject to extremely large amounts of money. The Minister's candidate further stressed that, although it does not come from the field of health, today, as in other areas of expertise, the most important interdisciplinary approach is now. It will be based on the experience it has gained in the area of human resources management and management, and it also wants to do something for the public good. On the one hand, the management of such a resource presents a challenge to it, although it is aware of the responsibility and the fact that there is no longer much time left for this Government until the end of its term of office. The Minister's candidate specifically warned that in Slovenia it will be necessary to coordinate around the most important health document, namely the National Health Programme of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, it will be necessary to involve health professionals and other areas, civil society and the local community. There will also be a lot of attention focused on the quality and safety of health care, the patient's insurance for errors that are and will be made in treatment procedures, innovative medicine, cancer detection and prevention. Since Slovenia will chair the EU in the first half of the next year, projects will focus on certain topics of the Presidency in this area. Since the field of investment is extremely demanding and financial and public, attention will be focused primarily on the revision of ongoing investments and on those planned to do so. Particular attention will be paid to calls for proposals. In the area of the organisation of health services and the provision of patients' rights, the candidate, as Minister, will advocate the regulation of relations between public and private, the delimitation of secondary and tertiary activities and, in this regard, the process of adopting and upgrading the law on concessions, the law on long-term care, the law on patient rights, the establishment of equipment planning in the field of the introduction of health information, and so on. As Minister, she will advocate effective social dialogue, especially for good cooperation between other departments, the National Assembly and civil society, of course. Following the Committee's meeting, the members and members of the Committee asked a number of questions for the Minister's proposed candidate, which concerned in particular the fact that the decision of the Prime Minister of the Government to replace the existing Minister of Health was based on a series of mistakes that would be difficult to address in this area. Specific issues related to the attitude of the future Minister to the work of the already retired Minister, to the granting of medical concessions, and in particular to whether these allocations would be frozen; to the waiting period in health care, to the invitation and arrangement of helicopter transports, to the tax advice of the pediatric clinic, which is almost already bordering on corruption, to the presence of clientism in health care, to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and its Director, to public procurement in health, to the appointment of the lowest working group that will cooperate with the Minister, and to the possible replacements within the Ministry, to the legislation that has been promised, is not yet in the process. This focused mainly on national programmes - the Act on Concessions, the Law on Mental Health, Patient Rights and so on. The proposed candidate for minister provided answers and additional explanations to the questions raised. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate for Minister of Health, the Health Committee adopted the following decision by 8 votes to one with one vote: The Health Committee considers that the presentation of the views and views of Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovič, a candidate for Minister of Health, was appropriate in the field of work of the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u82	Your Honors are here! The introductory explanation by Prime Minister Janez Janša provided a number of comparative analyses, such as the educational structure or the educational basis of some of the resident colleagues of finance ministers across Europe. If Mr Janez Janša hopes or wishes to persuade the Member and the Members of the Slovenian National Party of support with this argument, he has made a strong mistake. In the National Party, we believe one and only: the Minister of Health of the Water or should lead an extremely sensitive area, where, of course, it is necessary beyond knowledge of bridge building, so that the proposed candidate can be commended, and the crisis management, who is extremely familiar with the human side. This is a ministry that is not identical to the Ministry of Finance. I want to say that the Minister of Finance is expected to be, that is, stiffness, scrupulousness, austerity, which, of course, is expected of the Minister of Finance. In our country, especially on the basis of the existing health system, the Minister of Health would be expected to do anything other than this. We would expect knowledge of the system, and we would expect it to be chosen or contained at an extremely high level of sense towards the fellow human being, especially the one who needs health care. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to track this in our country in years. But allow me to basically touch the humble and, in my opinion, even the pathetic presentation of the said candidate. In fact, the candidate in question said that she was put before the fact, a few days ago and that she did not know the health system. She said, in part, that "the only thing she knows about the health system in our country is the location of the Ministry of Health". And if we are indeed in such a humane situation in this Slovenia, to find a human being for this extremely sensitive area, only one who knows the only exact location of the Ministry of Health within the entire health system, then forgive me, it is a disaster. This is a disaster for the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who signed this proposal and, of course, for all those Members who will support it. But, as I said basically, in the National Party, we believe that the first concern of the Minister of Health should be the care of patients, the care of patients, and that this person should develop that social sense, a much more developed social sense than he has developed for finance and financial manipulation. And in the case that we are facing today, i.e. with the candidate's proposal, we can say with certainty, all those who have tried and partially followed the media reports or all others, that, of course, the candidate's assessment of capital is much better or much higher than the assessment of patients' needs. On the other hand, I must point out that we are sorry that the President of the Government quickly replaced Mr. Brucan with nothing to you. As you probably know, at the National Party, we were preparing an interpolation. But the purpose of the interpolation was not to give up Mr Bručan, but to change the public health policy in our country. Where Slovenian healthcare came under cover and the tactics of the Slovenian Government. It came under the fact that the only common denominator or the aim of Slovenian health care has become subject to this system of material or capital goods. Unfortunately, we can no longer talk about public health in our country, but we can only talk about health care, which is subordinated to political knowledge on the one hand, and, of course, the content of the material goods of the individual patient. Not only is this unconstitutional, but it is primarily directed at humanity. And according to our assessment, damage has been done to this, because the Prime Minister of the Government has avoided that fundamental debate about changing the health system in our country. As I have already said, the purpose of the Group was not to replace a man under the leadership of the Ministry of Health, but primarily to change the health system in our country. It is a fact that irregularities under Mr Bručan's ministry have been dealt with within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, a little more seriously, they have come to terms with this within the anti-corruption commission. The effects, or goals, are clear to all of us today. Let's talk about any institution within our country that started building ten and a few years ago, and we can see that it still hasn't seen what it really needs to see. And if I continue from this city, with the words of the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who said in his opening statement today, the problems are not in the medical profession, in fact we can attach them to it. It would be very funny to say that doctors are guilty of existing medical conditions. So there are only two categories left: Are patients responsible for the existence of the health system? We will, we won't, yes. It's true, there are too many sick people, but we can't deny it. But the system, as implemented by the executive branch of power, is an organization, financing, implementation and system, has, unfortunately, rotted more from day to day in our country. That is why, in our opinion, this extremely sensitive area would deserve a person who would be able to listen also through the lifespan and not just through the construction of bridges and through the so-called crisis management. As I said, in the framework of the parliamentary group, we really stand for the fact that the President of the Government made a big mistake because he did not allow the profession, Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to talk about the health system in our country. But the Prime Minister of the Government has outrun us and has thus avoided a quality debate which I believe would help to make this system more beneficial to patients, not to performers, not to the friends of the SDS, NSI and the Slovenian People's Party in the name of the construction lobby, but to turn the system into a favour for patients. But, of course, the Prime Minister didn't listen. The post is proposed by a candidate who, once again, has basically stressed that, as far as the health system is concerned, today and here, she only knows the exact location of the Ministry of Health. I think it's sad. But no matter what, I think the existing government is sad, too. We will not support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! This time we have before us a second staff proposal from the President of the Government, namely that Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic is appointed Minister of Health. A while ago, one opposition MP in the National Assembly said that when the new Minister for Health was appointed, the concept and the efforts of the current Minister would open up a debate on health and on the concept, in short, that he would say much at this point. However, this is expected, and we also think it is right for such a debate to open up, because all the efforts and results made in this mandate in this area must be given the right image. And this image is certainly not what potential interpolation writers and potential interpolation proponents want to show. That the preparation of serious criticisms is actually difficult, it also shows an extremely long deadline for preparation for interpolation and this deadline was extended days ago. It is logical that this happened because the opposition in preparing the interpolation did not have uniform positions or starting points. This is typical, for example, of the Mutual, which was or would have been the main topic of interpolation in one of the opposition parties, in the case of others, this is in fact an irrelevant matter, for in the concept they have virtually unanimously supported the government's proposal for a recast. The fact is that health care is one of the most sensitive areas, we are particularly sensitive when we are sick, when we are in need and also expect help and we are practically faced with this health system from birth to death, but always, generally in these special circumstances or conditions. Therefore, it is relatively easy to attract attention, public attention, as the public’s response is nothing unusual, even if the findings are not always justified. Since the beginning of the term of office, and especially at the time of the previous interpretation, this has proved to be true. The worst critics of the minister's work came from the parties that began to gnaw on this internal worm and who were looking primarily for a solution to their inherited disease outside their body and the fact that the minister of some catharsis could not prescribe some help to them because it would be very unhygienic. This matter happened a little later, on its own, but the pain remained. Days ago, one of the participants in the Odessa, Borut Miklavčič, who in part of the opposition public, famous as a great health expert, said that the Oncology Institute should have been completed long ago. So, at least until 2000, and at the latest, if not during the first year of the mandate of the former Minister, Dr Kebra, at least at the end of the term of office, at least in that term. And if I sum up Borut Miklavčič, the Oncology Institute should not be the problem of the previous government, let alone this government and this minister. But things were different. The former minister and the former government could not make a decision to prevent patients from being frowned upon, as well as the public. There was no convincing explanation for why it could not be done, and the idea of what to do was to end this story from nowhere. However, because you have done the project as you have shown when adopting the urgent amendments to the Public Procurement Procedures Review Act, when both the LDS and the SDs with all the tricks have prevented the adoption of the novel, which, in cases where life is threatened, allows the government to decide and also take risks for its decisions, it is clear that it is not all the same for the health and life of citizens. That's why it took more than 10 years to complete the Oncology Institute, it took 23 annexes, a lot of redesigns not to even talk about irritations. But the patients waited and suffered. And we can say thank God that we have been able to conclude this in this mandate. Apparently, the previous suit is still quite different from the story of success. Success is even if something unnecessary is not done, it is more than obvious from this story. Just a few days before moving the patients from the old stable to the new modern premises of the Oncology Institute, the minister decided to resign because he estimated that there was no longer any point in dealing with false, structured, systematic and guided charges, because they took too much time to answer them and there was no result. The management of the department needs an entire human being, one who can spend most of his capacity on content that brings positive changes, i.e. further improvements and progress in the field of health. By the way, I can only mention that in a few months, at the beginning of next year, there will also be a new paediatric clinic in final use, which is also a relic in the success story, and new procedures have also been developed to upgrade the E.R. However, all of this will already take place in the work of the new minister's term of office. For many years we have faced a shortage of medical personnel: nurses, doctors, dentists. A number of studies were carried out, the solution offered on its own, but as a rule it continued to import personnel from other countries. Only this coalition was able to decide to build a clinical centre in Maribor and to prepare appropriate conditions for the functioning of the Faculty of Medicine. It will indeed be necessary for her graduates to wait another year, but the process has finally begun and this is a major shift for health care, for the development of the health profession and also for regional development. Mag. Bručan was a minister of health who took serious action to eliminate many diseases from the health system. One of the greatest pains is waiting times, and it is difficult for everyone to have something that is urgently needed when they need it, when they cannot get it most, and this is particularly sensitive in health. This is why special attention has been paid to this area. In this mandate, largely on the basis of rationalisation and cost reduction, high additional resources were provided to allow both the purchase of additional equipment and the increase in the number of operational interventions, reducing waiting lines by more than 35% in two and a half years. Without increasing the contribution rates in health care or introducing additional participation. And we can say that's a very good achievement. It is not surprising, therefore, that Slovenia is, after the efficiency of spending health resources, at the European Summit. After one of the studies, we're even the best. Given that the approach is well known and very effective and that good cooperation has been established between the Ministry of Health, between institutions and concessionaires, cooperation with the health insurance company can be expected to continue to reduce the number of patients in waiting lines and also to reduce waiting periods. There are also trends in health care in the direction of complementarity and cooperation between the public and the private. There is also a change in the way services are provided. This increases competitiveness, improves the supply and quality of services, allows greater flexibility for providers and increases the choice of service users, and, last but not least, introduces private capital into the health system, particularly in investments, facilities and equipment. Given that public spending is limited, for a number of reasons it is necessary to continue with trends in tax relief, which is one of the important corrections to improve the health system, but of course this process must be gradually and regulated. Many of the observations regarding the granting of concessions and the so-called privatisation of health care were mainly made by those who plowed the ice and awarded the most concessions in this area. One of the MPs, who was also the mayor's prime minister's time ago, particularly stood out and read the right lessons to the minister by his attacks on the minister. In her municipality, she was able to grant 14 concessions, one per about 2,000 inhabitants. In his mandate, Minister Bručan divided 130 of them, following a commission procedure and verification or about one per 15,000 inhabitants, by seven times less. Still, he was in for a real pogrom. And in my opinion, this is really a flower of argument with a personal image. Health care is one of those areas where solidarity comes to the fore. It is therefore, in fact, inexplicable why no previous government has regulated this area, but it was, apparently only by words and principles, a very socially oriented party. Was that not the case, or could it be done, or were there other interests prevailing? Minister Bručan took a bite and prepared a novel of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and we introduced equalisation schemes and introduced intergenerational solidarity. This novelty should be prepared by Minister Keber within the first six months of his term under the previous government's coalition contract. He did not do this; rather, he devoted himself to the preparation and adoption of a law on the artificial fertilization of healthy single women. But the compensatory schemes that are so necessary for many insurers were not proposed and could not be accepted. Many good decisions have been made in this mandate. However, as is the custom, the greatest fears and weaknesses in these good decisions have been seen by those who have wasted their opportunity to do something noticeable in time. And we can thank the Minister for his good work. Of course, the question is how to proceed. In any case, good health trends will continue. The foundation drawn up by the outgoing Minister Bručan in this mandate is good and candidate Zofija Mazej Kukovic brings new qualities. True, there is no proposal for a minister to have long experience in the field he will perform, but those with long experience can be found only in some other parties. However, there is a candidate who has proven herself in several areas in his current career, in fact wherever he has been given the opportunity. For her work so far, she received some recognitions, including for the field of the economy - she was the person of the year, also for the project management and what else could be found. Mrs Kukovic is certainly a capable woman who will be able to continue and/or summarise all the tasks of the Minister of Health. Indeed, time does not have much time, so it will be necessary to adopt at an accelerated pace, especially since it is extremely difficult for us to preside over the European Union, with which Slovenia, as the most exemplary new member of the European family, will face it for the first time. I also hope that the candidate will receive those 100 fine days of peace so that she will be able to get a good look at the tasks, both for the management of the station and for the Presidency of the European Union. True, managers tend to have a slightly different approach and view of content, but I am sure that they will be able to integrate themselves into the regulatory standards of cooperation between public systems, so that there will be no difficulties in cooperation between the Ministry and the National Assembly, nor in bringing them into international cooperation and leadership during the Presidency. In view of the fact that an important part of the evidence to the outgoing Minister Bručan came from the field of making investments that he had inherited from his predecessors in poor condition, it is certainly appropriate to enter into the system of someone who has managerial, marketing and also investment skills, experience and knowledge, which will certainly contribute to the greater effectiveness of this sensitive system. Much has been done in this mandate, and the type of things is still in preparation, and although the philosophy of the system cannot be radically changed in one year, many steps can be made faster and more acceptable through an inventive management approach and with a good team. This will only further highlight the good results in the field of health in this mandate. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I wish the candidate a successful job for the remainder of her term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Please, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask that, in accordance with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which deals with the maintenance of the order at the meeting, Members Tanka would point out that the speaker should only talk about the issue on the agenda. I understand that on the agenda the proposal of Prime Minister Janez Janša on the candidate for Minister of Health is not how one or the other Member in health and health has worked. In such a way that it would be right for you to do this as President, because you did not do this, I have used the procedural possibility to warn you of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. In view of the previous point, and also in view of what I expect to happen throughout today's debate, I assess that there is no replica of Mr Tank's implementation of the Rules of Procedure, but if anyone answers, they can come forward in the debate. A nominated Member or an unnamed Member shall be admitted to the debate. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have for a long time been alerting the Group of Social Democrats to health irregularities. In fact, at the time of the appointment of the Minister of the current Government, who, in agreement with the President of the Government, has resigned or has been "weaned", we have warned of individual predictions that have been contrary to our efforts to preserve and further strengthen health as a public good, which for its purpose cannot be subject to market law and even less to the interests of individual groups. Privatisation of the health system and equalization of public and private health care lead to unequal treatment of patients, which means differentiated quality according to the patient’s social situation and unequal accessibility. Throughout the entire mandate, we have drawn attention to the lack of analysis of the current state of play. We were concerned about patient and healthcare professionals at the Oncology Institute. At times, they were amazed to read the proposed solutions that predicted a breakdown of rights, especially in the amount of hospital benefits. The Ministry of Health has become more and more gunned down from month to month with incomprehensible affairs. Today we will decide on a new human resources solution. This raises the question of how it is possible for the coalition to guarantee the quality of the work done, despite the fact that the Minister has resigned. In short, according to the coalition's assessment and in particular the largest government party, the period of two and a half years has been a success. In doing so, the minister resigned or "was resigned". It is therefore necessary to recognise that the candidate for Minister has considerable courage that one year before the end of the current government's term of office she has agreed to this candidacy. Especially since she is not a special acquaintance in this area and as she says, she has never worked in it. While we attach to the Group of Social Democrats the findings that the candidate has invested a great deal of knowledge and energy in preparation for the presentation in the days available to her, it is necessary to attach to its conclusion that the area which she will take over for the performance of today is quite unknown. We do not doubt its readiness, but at the same time we do not have the assurance that the practice so far will change significantly, because we do not have an answer to the question of how the activities of the future minister will differ from the current concept. Only a staff exchange doesn't satisfy us. Its lack of knowledge about the health system may also be an advantage, as it will be forced to take greater account of the opinion of the profession and the social partners and to consult more before taking individual measures or decisions that have a practical impact on all people of Slovenia in the health system. Because the time for normal work in this mandate will not be great, and because we hope for the Social Democrats that it will not continue with the mistakes that the current Minister has made just before the intervention takes place, and the Social Democrats can very briefly and in principle propose where we see the framework for her future work, although the Group of Social Democrats will not support her appointment, because we believe that the ruling coalition and the President of the Government, which she proposes, must assume responsibility for her appointment. Social Democrats do not agree to a neoliberal model of healthcare, which health only understands as market goods. We understand health as a public good, so it cannot be subject to the law of the market. We are convinced that the privatisation of the health system and the equalization of public and private health care lead to unequal treatment of patients, which means differentiated quality according to the patient’s social situation and thus unequal accessibility. Therefore, for us, the main measure of action of the new Minister will be the way in which she prepares and proposes to this assembly to adopt laws and other laws relating to the regulation of the health situation, as she is facing a very large task in the field of legislation, which the current Minister was not in favour of. At the beginning of this year, we agreed, at the beginning of the coordination of the Proposal for a Law on Public Service Grants in Health and Pharmacy and on the free doctors of specialists with Minister Bručan, that we would adopt an entire package of health legislation related to avoid unnecessary and physical interference with the health system, which could affect the quality of services and the accessibility of patients' health services, irrespective of the place of residence or the material position of an individual. The basis for the adoption of the whole package of amendments should be adopted in advance by the national healthcare programme, which currently does not have Slovenia, which would be prepared on the basis of thorough analyses of the functioning of the current system. In February, we signed a public declaration that the national programme will be put to the debate within a few days, and we have not seen it until today. So much for respecting the partnership arrangements, where we hear the obvious from time to time. Therefore, we expect the new Minister to continue the preparation of the announced amendments to the laws only after the adoption of the National Health Programme and on the basis of its adopted network of health services. Of course, these laws can only be drawn up through the cooperation of social partners, professions and the search for the broadest political consensus for sensitive changes that will affect the situation of all citizens in the country. Until then, it is expected that it will also freeze the non-transparent award of concessions and also the consent to awarded concessions which are awarded locally without invitations to tender on a legal basis, provided that such award does not constitute an expansion of the public health network. With the coalition contract, the current coalition has also set itself good goals. Thus, the coalition has set out as objectives: a stable healthcare system based on solidarity, a safe, friendly and healthy living environment, an effective fight against clientism and corruption in the public sector, respect for human rights. Among other things, the Coalition has adopted the following starting points: that health and health care be judged among fundamental human rights, that the extent of the guaranteed rights to health services should not be reduced, that social values such as solidarity, social justice and universal access to rights should be strengthened and developed. That health and health care is primarily a public good that is guaranteed to all, regardless of the health, social, economic and individual’s ability. That the patient's friendly and successful health system is based on basic treatment and intervention programmes, with particular emphasis on the further expansion of prevention programmes. That European comparable reform processes are needed to ensure the broadest social consensus between the population, professional and civil society. The Partnership for Development has also agreed on social change in a democratic way, which means: open public dialogue on important issues, consultation with civil society stakeholders, dialogue between social partners, local self-government and use, and that Slovenia must have a legal state, which means that there are no privileges, non-formal influences and corruption; that a strategy for pluralisation of the service system, in which NGOs and private entities should be included as a priority, must be established as a complement to public service providers; that changes in the health system must ensure improvement of the health of the population, the perception and elimination of unfair differences in human health, increased accessibility to health services, increased solidarity and a fair health system, increased response to legitimate expectations of people and the improvement of the effectiveness of health care. All of these are acceptable goals and arrangements for us, as Social Democrats, as before, will strive to reduce differences in human health, living standards and the quality of life of people from different social groups. If the Minister takes these goals and arrangements into account in her work, she will have our full support. If not, it will receive our sharp but constructive opposition criticism. Finally, the conclusion that a minister who is familiar with crisis management may be welcome in this situation when many mistakes have to be remedied. The responsibility for the appointment and management of the healthcare system remains with the coalition. For the benefit of all of us, we expect a clear divide with the current concept of governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! The current government of Janez Janša also built its electoral victory in 2004 on criticism of health policy, and in particular on criticism of the prepared starting points for health reform, as recorded in the White Paper of the then Minister of Kebra. Thus, when presented to the Health Committee, the candidate for Minister Andrej Bručan expressed his opinion that the problem of the absence of adequate health policy had led to the destabilisation of the financial system of health. In his opinion, the health situation was due to an imprudent health management policy, a lack of vision, a lack of confidence in health care providers, inefficient and irrational spending of resources, an unregulated field of operation of chambers, obsolete equipment, undetermined responsibilities for the patient, and he listed a number of activities for which he had given a somewhat comprehensive assessment in the analysis of the situation. He concluded his presentation with the fact that the current state of health is not critical. At the same time, it acknowledged that quite good movements have been made, in particular the reduction of waiting types to certain operations, the investment funds have increased dramatically, the substitution drug system has proved useful and the introduction of comparable groups shows positive results. With all the criticism that was expressed mainly during the pre-election period, it was normal to expect a clearly defined health policy, but very quickly it was shown that the new government with its performance in 2004 and the Minister of Health did not have a clear vision and even fewer strategies for implementing health policy in the Republic of Slovenia, while positive extensions of past years went quickly into oblivion. This meant that the pre-election criticism was itself without a real basis. The main mission and the key role and the importance of the government and the ministry are and are still attributed to increasing privacy or privatisation in primary and secondary health care. Without a strategy, without impact assessments and impact assessments, a process of wild privatisation has begun. The process of awarding concessions past tenders speaks of clienteleism and the acquisition of medical equipment and the implementation of investments in health care has been prompted by corruption. There have been growing suspicions about the purposeless spending of budgetary, i.e. public money. The government was late in the drafting of laws, but rarely prepared had a broader social consensus due to inadequate dialogue with the social partners and the public concerned. The entire period of this government's mandate is promised the preparation of a national healthcare programme, which we have not had since 2004. Therefore, there are no proposals for important laws regulating health care in Slovenia. The aim of the current government's health policy is to privatise as quickly as possible at all steps without broad social consensus, i.e. through the will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and beyond the collective agreement. The consequences of such actions are the organisational and financial breakdown of health homes, the emergence of wild new forms of health insurance, which leads to the increasing pay of residents for health services. In doing so, it should be noted that this also leads to public-population distribution, leading to different access to health services and the provision of health services in relation to the social status of citizens and citizens. So whoever has more will have more health. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy, we have never agreed to such an approach to the implementation of health policy. So many times there is no health net promised today. Instruments for increased efficiency of health service providers are not prepared, control of the paws at all steps. This situation led to the first interpretation by the Minister of Health, Dr Bručan, who, despite arguments, failed due to a majority vote in the National Assembly. However, as the failed health policy in the Republic of Slovenia continued, another interpolation was announced to Minister Bručan this autumn, which the Minister avoided with his own resignation. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia estimates that the Prime Minister, with the latest replacements of the work of the ministerial team, is merely trying to discuss the failure of his government's public policy and to ease the dissatisfaction in the coalition and the government, and that is why his proposal for the Minister of Health is understood as a quick and unusual proposal and a reflection of the foreign importance that this government attaches to the health field. Since the government's health policy so far has been very poor in this mandate, as evidenced by the absence of a strategy and vision and a number of affairs, we believe that it is not enough to replace a minister in the field of health, a health policy should change, which is not likely to happen in the rest of the year. Following the presentation of the candidate for the new Minister on the Committee on Health of the National Assembly, our hope in this direction is even less. The fact that a candidate in the field of health does not know what is openly and honestly recognised and must be congratulated for this, and that I almost have no knowledge of the problems affecting Slovenian health care, and that she is a complete stranger to the planning and implementation of health policy, since, apart from being an unknown name in economic circles, her choice can be understood as a reflection of the existing political situation, but not as an appropriate human resources solution. Due to accumulated problems and inadequate health policy in recent years, it has not been possible to find an expert with appropriate references to take over this difficult area a year before the elections and just before the Presidency of the European Union. We can therefore understand the proposal of the President of the Government, who, at the head of the Ministry of Health, proposes a candidate who does not know the health sector, while at the same time its best competences and references in the field of risk management are the failure of this government's health policy. We cannot therefore agree with the statements made by the Prime Minister of the Government, who estimates that the appointment of the proposed candidate, due to her rich experience and knowledge in governance and governance, will be a transitional period when the Ministry is replaced as short as possible. Her statements, which you can also read in the media, today say that she must first take time to get acquainted, then she will need time for analysis and then a proposal will be prepared. We are talking about the end of this government's term of office next year. In our view, until now, only the healthcare user will not be able to get to know all the accumulated health problems within such a short period of time, and even less so could expect the necessary solutions to be made within a very short time until the end of the mandate and with great responsibilities, due to the Presidency of the European Union. In doing so, we should only remind the President of the Government and the ruling coalition that the coalition contract, which was also referred to by the candidate at the meeting of the parent committee, as the criterion for the government's personnel composition in the first two places, includes knowledge of the area, and professional competences, which is contrary to the additional justification of the Prime Minister of the Government, directly or at the beginning of this point, which does not refer to the need to take over the Ministry of Health by someone who has a medical education, but you yourself have written in the ruling coalition in this government that they are the most important criteria for knowledge of the field and professional competences. That the President of the Government had completely ignored these criteria with the proposed candidate, we were also convinced by her presentation, and in particular the answers to the questions raised at the Committee on Health yesterday, when she was unable to answer the large majority of the questions specifically raised, and I would like to stress in particular that the responsibility for the poor work of a particular minister is not only on the Minister, but in particular on the President of the Government, who is also proposing such a candidate. We also do not agree with the LDS's assessment by the President of the Government that, before the Ministry of Health until the end of the mandate, there are still important and responsible tasks in which the main challenges are not based on professional health issues, but are related to measures to improve organisation and management, as it is precisely because of the failure of planning and then addressing the professional issues and problems of Minister Bručan to achieve systemic and professional health errors. In our view, the work of the Minister of Health must be based on the treatment of the healthcare user, a patient who must be at the heart of the healthcare system. And it is in this awareness, because of the lack of knowledge of the health field and the related problems, that we see the weakness of the proposed candidate. Since, in our view, the health of citizens is one of the fundamental values of any modern society and the provision of health care is a fundamental human right, we believe that it would be necessary for the President of the Government to propose a candidate or candidate who knows the field better to have more expertise in this area. Thus today, we can re-evaluate that this government, despite the fact that it has placed health and people as a priority in the coalition contract, has fallen to the entire line. The government has so far done little in the field of health, except for the demolition of the existing one. All its proposals in their actions are reversed and narrowly oriented. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, today we cannot take responsibility for the appointment of a new candidate, even though we want to be more successful in our work than our predecessor and to overcome only the narrow interests of the people and the benefits of individuals who have so far led a health policy in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u92	Dear President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In her presentation, the Minister-designate outlined a number of key issues and strategic orientations that she would like to pursue in her term as Minister. In New Slovenia, we welcome its intention to continue the positive plans that are already under way and to give further emphasis to health prevention, healthy lifestyles, strengthening and maintaining health, informing health, which is a positive step towards rationalisation and a more patient-friendly approach. In Novi Slovenija, it seems important to us that the candidate for a minister is aware of the problems of long-term and obsolete medical equipment inherited from the current government. We therefore welcome her intention to give an emphasis to the fulfilment of the coalition contract in the part that talks about buying or replacing obsolete medical equipment. Health needs a systematic perspective on the future and strategic planning of investments. We welcome her intention to make a thorough review of the investments already under way. Only in this way can the effectiveness and finalisation of late investment be ensured. Rational implementation of public procurement is crucial, as the money saved from this title can be directed to additional equipment or to the benefit of patients. We find it important to stress its importance in dealing with the complications that occur in the treatment of patients and the human attitude towards the patient and its aspect of the motivations of healthcare workers to make improvements. The delimitation of secondary and tertiary activities is essential if we want to relieve the activity, for example at the Clinical Centre, which must also deal with research and development of the profession. Of course, cooperation between secondary and tertiary activities is also important. It is necessary to continue with the adoption of legislation in favour of patients. Let me mention the final implementation of the law on patients' rights, as well as the draft law on medicine. I would also appeal again to a potential future minister to ensure that appropriate legislation on the protection of older citizens or long-term care insurance is drawn up in the future. Given that this area is not fully regulated in Slovenia, we are of the opinion that there is still much to be done in this area, particularly in cooperation, in providing conditions for the award of concessions for the protection of the elderly, as we know that the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia is indirectly involved in this area. In the New Slovenia Group, we also make a positive assessment of its emphasis on multidisciplinaryness and the European dimension of managing the ministry. We also support the intention that, within its competences, it will continue to seek to extend the possibility of admission to a medical study, which is one of the occupations of employment. In Novi Slovenija, we will support candidate Zofio Mazej Kukovic as Minister of Health for all the above-mentioned arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Ministry of Health is certainly one of the most important and sensitive ministries, covering the health sector with which every citizen and every citizen meets sooner or later. With regard to health care, there has recently been a lot of controversy in the public, especially with regard to the quality of public health, the sense of private health care or the granting of medical concessions, public procurement errors and the like. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic as the new Minister of Health. Let me begin by saying that, at yesterday's presentation before the Committee of the National Health Council, the candidate convinced us that she was a sovereign answer to the questions raised. We know that the candidate for Minister of Health does not come from the health field and that there is no experience here. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the unburden of a candidate with health care and various health interest groups is an advantage rather than a weakness. In general, we are of the opinion that the Minister of Health is not required by the nature of his work to be a doctor. The fact is that any individual who belongs to a particular profession appreciates the interests and interests of his fellow citizens, whether they are willing or unwilling to defend them. Mrs Mazej Kukovic undoubtedly provides a new approach that will be backed up by many experiences from the economy. We expect and believe that it will achieve its objectives. In her programme presentation, the Minister's candidate clearly presented all the key areas. Its view, on the one hand, ensures the continuity and continuation of the projects initiated and, on the other hand, improvements in the areas that have recently been among the most problematic. As the starting point of her work, she set the preparation and adoption of a national programme of health care for the Republic of Slovenia. Undoubtedly, it is a central document on the basis of which a clear and consistent health policy can be pursued. It is crucial that the candidate is aware of the need for all partners to participate in the preparation of this programme. It also wants to involve civil society in the preparations, which we think is particularly important. For civil society represents the direct opinion of people and, when preparing the programmes, it allows work to be done in the right direction. The main objectives of civil society are certainly quality health services, which is also the wish of the Ministry of Health. In particular, the candidate also touched on the areas of investment in health in connection with public procurement, which over the past months have been lagging behind many of the planned investments and a broad debate in the media. The applicant shall ensure that investments are audited and that efforts are made towards an expert and professional approach to public procurement, the selection of operators, the exercise of supervision and the enforcement of guarantees. In the Group of Members, we believe that this is the right approach to prevent future irregularities and to enable the successful implementation of public procurement without unnecessary complications and delays. Each day of delay is of crucial importance for someone who is sick and needs certain treatment or surgery. Therefore, it is crucial that the Ministry and the Minister at the head of the department work exclusively in the interests of patients and people who need any medical assistance. I would not like to go into the details presented by the candidate on the Health Committee. Members from the Slovenian People's Party's Group have been convinced in particular of its determination to ensure transparent and transparent procurement procedures, to ensure the control of public procurement, to clearly regulate concessional health and to pursue a multidisciplinary approach. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the candidate for Minister and we want her to be able to implement her programme in such a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u95	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Association, we really do not want to vote on Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic's candidacy and will not be defined. We assess that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, fully assumes responsibility for the proposal he formulated at the resignation of the previous Minister, Dr Bručan, because, at yesterday's hearing, the Health Committee showed that the candidate has a lot of energy, ambition, will and joy to work, that she is bold and brave, but that knowledge or better said ignorance of the health, health system, and the basis of the political alphabet does not go beyond some average view of the refugee user of health services and the superficial reader or companion of daily media. Therefore, we believe that the manager's takeover, if so called, is too risky an experiment, which means nothing good for the future of Slovenian health, especially for strategy and vision in this area. Because I hope to say today that, unfortunately, nothing will be done in this area, in strategy and vision, for the next two years, on what Slovenia absolutely needs. Although she is an expert and has a lot of knowledge about information technology, electronics, and crisis management - and the latter, given the situation at the Ministry of Health, could say that this is good and will also benefit her at work. However, we do not agree with the argument that he is leaving this area, from this position a good and quality minister. Are we therefore witnessing the situation - today you are all convincing us, especially by the government coalition - that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, is reconstructing the government by replacing quality, good and excellent ministers. That would be really strange. And, of course, it is also strange that it is actually changing them with ministers, for which - or today we have two proposals on the table - it has actually turned out that both proposals or both candidates are largely unknown to the area they will run. This is an experiment and, of course, this is extremely unusual. We're concerned that the medical candidate doesn't know. He says, and yesterday we received such answers that these things will only start to study, analyze them, take time to get to know this area and also to find and accept systemic solutions. This will simply not be possible, it can be possible at the beginning of the mandate, but there is no time, and there is also 100 days of which there have been several speeches today, even these 100 days, in my opinion, it will not be possible to sit in peace and devote itself to these study purposes, which she spoke about yesterday, because her entire working term, which will end there sometime in July of next year, is in fact a debt of all over 300 days. And if of this 100 days of peace, and then the European Union's leadership, in fact, as one of the colleagues on the committee calculated yesterday, remains for 16 working days without such burdens. And of course the problems and problems are here and are already there, and they are waiting for it tomorrow, when - I am sure that today will be elected - it will enter the ministry and have it on the table. Of course, I am afraid that it will be obvious, because it will be necessary to make decisions as quickly as possible and immediately as possible, to listen to suggestions and advice from the parties, and I hope that these will not be the ones we are hearing today, that the former Minister is also the 'pure gold' we are losing today. For the new minister has come to a resort that has not adopted a strategy for years; therefore, there is no real basis, no health network is adopted on any of the levels, there are no specific rules or obligations and obligations in the field of awarding concessions, there is no whole range of basic laws in this area, from the law on the protection of patients' rights, the law on medicine, on mental health and still could be listed. There is no regulated system and national register in the field of waiting periods, so of course it can be manipulated constantly. In front of the door are new negotiations on the price of medicines - in these days, they will need to be started immediately - there are open-ended affairs concerning helicopter transports, operating tables, corruption at the construction of the Paediatric Clinic, there is also a need to regulate and analyse at the level of responsibility and we absolutely agree - all the mastics that have accumulated in the construction of the Oncology Institute. Unfortunately, in spite of today's many assurances, Minister Bručan was not very active, as it took him several months to form a commission to work in this area. Last but not least, we have also collected signatures in the Spring Action to support a voluntary and country-based system of home-based cancer vaccination caused by the HPV virus, and we also expect a quick and effective decision and solution here, as many European countries have already done. Unfortunately, at yesterday's hearing, we found that we did not get a clear and concrete answer with regard to any particular problem, affair, law. Today, we do not know whether the candidate will grant or will not grant new concessions in 2007. We don't know what they'll look like or how health homes will be organized, because they'll just think about it. We don't know how it's going to solve the accumulated health investment affairs, because there's going to be compensation lawsuits on the table. We do not know whether the new Minister supports already prepared laws in this area, which are already in stages and procedures, such as the Health Act, which we will adopt in 10 days, the Patients' Rights Act, which is also at our meeting, the Mental Health Act, etc. We have not heard anything about her position on the issue of the Mutual. This one too is only latently frozen at this point, but still unresolved definitively. Therefore, we believe that only good will and joy at work are not sufficient references to carry out the function of managing the Ministry of Health. We are also disappointed and surprised that the candidate has not provided clear answers and clarifications regarding the evidence of her past work, the discharge for false reasons, the apparent untransparently guided procurement and so on. We would like to hear her clear explanation and not excuses that this is happening somewhere, and that her lawyer knows more about it. Here, however, the answers must be given. Avoiding such an important role as the Minister of Health is not a good way to build public confidence and people that a person in this place and in such a position must enjoy and continue to build. Nevertheless, we want everything good for the future minister, because everything that she will do in this short time of good will also be good for Slovenian patients, users of health services who have missed out on Minister Bručan: care and thinking about them. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, to ask, however, some rhetorical questions about, if I may say so, the quality work of Minister Bručan and the unjustified criticisms that some of them should have received during this period of their term of office. I ask whether it has been unfair for the Minister to receive a non-transparent, I stress, non-transparent award of concessions, including his friend, colleague and member of the Strategic Council in his client, even though this has caused harm to the public institution of the Clinical Centre. Was it unfair that the consent for the sale of medical devices came only from the pharmacy of his client colleague and his client's MP? Is it unfair to prove with documents, travel and direct telephone conversations, including with the help of people, patients and patients, that the minister is not telling the truth about waiting times? Is it unfair that, despite warnings, he bought the worst operating tables, after the public, the media, including some MPs in parliament, when we prevented him from buying the most expensive operating tables and overpaid them? Was it unfair for helicopter operators to file an action against him if they did not receive the payment of this service after he was unable to sign the contract because he did not find the legal basis for it and the transports were carried out? Is it unfair if he was asked, isn't it strange that we all paid incredible millions as taxpayers to advise on the placement of electrical installations at the Pediatric Clinic together? In my opinion, these were not criminal issues and respected colleagues from the ruling party, obviously you have completely replaced the vats with which you measure customerism, theft and corruption in two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u97	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So, what was to be predicted has actually come true, and I think we will also talk more about the work of the current Minister than what we think would be good for the new Minister to do. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. It is not bad because it is more than obvious that part of the current opposition is unable to carry out the function it holds in parliamentary democracy. It is very difficult to answer questions that have not only been answered a hundred times, but are also stupid in one way and do not concern health issues in Slovenia. And also today - I quickly reviewed the matriculation of yesterday's meeting of the parent committee; of course, these things are being repeated today in plenary session, about one and the same. How can you expect a candidate to tell you something smart about advice on electrical cables, as you say, which the ministry is supposed to pay if that payment was not to be paid? If this is a business between two private companies - I also asked my colleague Cvikl an enigmatic question before a time he did not think it was worth answering. These are things that do not concern the minister, not health issues in Slovenia, not the department. How to respond to these constant nudges around the operating tables - according to this logic that you set up, the minister is responsible if there is a "shraf" or, excuse the term, screw cancels, not the supplier, the manufacturer who gave the guarantee for this product. Under this logic, the Prime Minister would be responsible if his car, which he had obtained for his official needs, was damaged. This is a very strange level, it does not reach the level of serious opposition and it undermines the quality work of those who are entrusted with the management of individual resources in this country. In this way, you only make the work of those who are supposed to do it effectively worse, because if you ask the right questions and ask the answers to those things that are actually problematic - we know which are in the health field and I will mention them later - things could improve where they really need to be improved. These questions, however, are not questions for the Ministry of Health or the Minister, but for those responsible or responsible. In particular, in this advice on electrical cables, both owners should be asked why they signed such contracts. The price at the Paediatric Clinic was not affected in any way by the award of the contract because the contract was carried out in accordance with public law, was public, transparent and the procedure was concluded after the negotiations. Not to mention these tables. Initially, it was not good that they were rejected most expensive, now it is not good that they were purchased the cheapest, but the worst is of course because the Minister does not take responsibility for screwdrivers that may be defective in these products, despite the existence of guarantees and it is known that such products should be replaced on the basis of these things. In short, we're moving away from those essential questions and I really didn't want to go around, I was going to say something else, but I couldn't go through with this implementation. So the question of the quality of the work of former Minister Bručan is undeniably raised. Was it really as bad as you wanted him through produced affairs with which he had nothing to show to the public? Was the minister really that bad? To answer this question, we must probably look at what has been done in this mandate in the area of health care and by what rules of the game things have been going on. And when you talk in this light about the privatization of health care, about how abnormal things started to happen, about losing public health, about people not being able to use this system equally, I have to say that you don't speak on the basis of facts and arguments. Concessions, which are part of public health, took place on the basis of the same legislation as before 2004. And you will probably agree that the one who runs a certain department is responsible for following the laws in force. If we look at what happened in the field of investment, where there was the most criticism. The legacy taken over by Minister Bručan was not good. We can honestly say that she was very bad. She missed the pediatric clinic, the problems were at the tables, the Oncology Institute, and so on. We could even list what wasn't done this afternoon, but it should have been before he arrived. And I think Minister Bručan has put things in his place. Even if you remember when we discussed the 2003 final bill, we found that investment in this health fund is very little spent money because these procedures did not run as they should run. And that these things have improved since 2004, after Minister Bručan took over the ministry. I will not say that they have run smoothly, but again: no, in my opinion, because of the responsibility of the minister, but because of the strange procedures that have resulted from the regulations that have been inherited. A number of calls, and a few things that should have run in a certain order, have not been "implemented", we have all found, because of certain legal situations that have not been seen to be over. And I think only Minister Bručan has achieved that things have begun to move. So in this area, I don't think I could have gotten any bigger insights. You also mentioned them in the interpretation last year and you were going to repeat them in the one that was long predicted, but I think it would be completely unsuccessful because all the arguments and all the evidence, the documents, talk about the opposite. As far as legislation is concerned, as far as field regulation is concerned. It must be agreed that this is actually a very sensitive and complex system, which is not well regulated or changed to a fast and reckless system. And I don't think that's what Minister Bručan was doing. I think the steps that have been taken are those that have slowly led to the goal. To have and maintain publicly available health care, to make it organizationally better and to make it more effective. And this legislation that has been adopted and that which is still being prepared and which we will receive, I think it is going this way, and I think it is one of the ministries that is one of the more successful and working ministries in this normative work. After all, one of the laws that in the previous term failed to bring Minister Kebra through the procedure was that law, where the total collapse of the system was threatening or where the most sensitive segment of the population would be said to be the elderly, to pay substantially more on the basis of voluntary health insurance, Minister Bručan made relatively quick arrangements in the new term, and in this National Assembly we adopted an appropriate solution that allowed us to make this system so that there were no negative consequences for any segment of the population. The tobacco law was also a relatively sensitive point, and even for those with the greatest opposition, it is said that in those who are most affected by it, restaurants and so on, but in those periods of enforcement it appears that this was a solution or that it was appropriate and that it was in the right direction. Unlike another law that wanted to prevent something else, and I have to say, it didn't work. I think that even in this normative area, if we come from verifiable facts, and I think that Minister Bručan was, of course, some of you won't want to admit this at all, one of the most successful ministers in the last period. I think he enjoyed trust both in the professional public and among the users of the services. However, that he was trustworthy in performing this function, I think he proved by his last move that, after you made it impossible for him to continue to perform this function with these produced affairs, he made a move by way of resignation. Because that's the only reason I'm making this decision and not anything else. I am convinced that, as much as we would criticise those issues that still need to be addressed, and I agree that the unresolved issues surrounding the pharmacy monopolies are, and so on, to the extent that we focus on them, I think these issues would be welcome and would only help to make this ministry work more effectively. But I think this move is very brave and upright. I think that by doing so, the Minister has made it possible for the work that has been started to continue and that, at this point, it is likely to be an advantage, not a weakness that the candidate who will take over this resort does not come from the medical types. Personally, I think that this is actually an advantage, and I hope that she can take advantage of it, I have no doubt that she is not taking over a bad legacy, but probably what kind of thing she should be paying attention to. What, then, should we pay attention to? But where, in truth, the minister may have been too weak. Perhaps he had a little too much confidence in the people around him, but unfortunately the minister here should not be sentimental, here I think the responsibility of the minister, who has a greater sense of being around people than those of his fellow workers, therefore I recommend that the new minister think carefully about what kind of staff and how she will participate in the future, because I believe that this is the basis of her successful or unsuccessful work in the future. But when I went through this magnetogram, I have to say, I did not get the feeling that some of you had in this room: not about her abilities, not about her expertise; I think she is a very capable candidate, she is professionally qualified, and she has a good feeling about people, about what those values are that need to be respected and respected. So, one of those very small things that I've been tracking over there, it says a lot. Health care, even if it is very well organised, if all things work very well, this humanity must not be lost, it is said, that this doctor-patient relationship should by no means be at the expense of all these procedures, which would ensure that we act as rationally as possible. And here I come from this presentation of her, and for that I am glad that we can decide about her today, and I hope that she will succeed in her task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I don't know the Minister of Health's candidate personally, and everything I'm about to talk about doesn't want to reveal my attitude to her personally, but as a government official who will be entrusted with her work, an oath she will make in the National Assembly, will impose on her action for the public good. And now that I think about what could be heard and what we can read in these days, what we know, who's competing for the ministerial office, I've got an ad coming in front of my eyes, which we've often heard on television, that's it: before you jump into the water, check how deep it is, as a good guide to stay healthy. This is a good guide, which has no courage and uprightness to do anything, but it does indicate wisdom and a wise decision for his own good. In this case, however, the depth of water is important for our common good, because the management of the area for which the Minister will be appointed is, in my view, absolutely necessary. And I cannot forget from the candidate's presentation that it comes from knowing the area for which she will be responsible from nothing. I don't know if ignorance and ignorance are considered an advantage in any activity. That's why I have to say we're going to witness a kind of experiment. We have often heard that it is not good for a doctor to run this area, says someone who is professionally qualified to care for human health. And now there's a person in this place who's in charge of crisis management. If I feel that the management of the crisis management is good enough to deal with some of the irregularities or many irregularities the opposition has been talking about in the work of the current minister, then I could say that this is a good decision. But the candidate was just saying that these things, which were often exposed as a health problem, are of no interest at all. Then I wonder what she's interested in. And how much time will she have in this year to manage things that are very important and very sensitive. If it starts from scratch, if the Presidency of the European Union is before it, then there will not be much time left for domestic affairs. And I think that in the sphere that we are talking about, which, according to public research, is very high on the line and, after the problems that have been accumulated, certainly requires good knowledge and a clear strategy, we cannot expect to know what results, and therefore I feel that talking about how we should not expect a candidate, because she does not know the situation, is something that I cannot accept. I stress that a person needs to know how deep the water he's jumping into is, and then we're going to measure the effectiveness of his behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u101	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Those of you who have remained and are thinking about the future of the Ministry of Health, let me frame today's debate, which is about replacing ministers, and let me say that I believe that replacing ministers, as it was intended, is two plus one, says three, is certainly a theatre performance. The replacement of ministers in this government is a theatre performance. The director's not here today, he's here, as the director usually comes at the end after the applause. Today he doesn't care what the others think, but why should he. After all, it is a decision that has fallen a long time ago and the responses to that decision are not really important. In short, if it's a theater play and it's about saying that we all know what it is, but everybody's pretending to be something else. In this case the truth is hollow, in this case of this theatre performance, it is only this, the question is just how the shiny paper will wrap up this empty box. And why do I think it's a theater? What is this theater, which I can compare with lying, with insinuating or setting up a stage? It was said that the candidates resigned themselves. No, no, no, no, no! It is clear that they had to step down or that the ministers have stepped down - I apologize - on their own. Clearly, they had to step down. And why did they have to step down? In order to make peace until the Presidency and the elections and to forget the neural points of all the other ministers and the rest of the work, the Government did not. Another time. Today, however, we have also heard from the proposaler, in fact the stager of this show, that the candidates have resigned because they have done well. Also today, we hear that Minister Bručan was working, in fact he was one of the best ministers, but because of the insinuation and instigation of some stories, he had to go away because he couldn't bear this instigation. In short, if the candidates did well, after all, the Prime Minister did not see anything wrong with the ministers, it means that he dismissed them precisely because they were doing well because the ministers were fine. But I don't think there's been a premiere yet, and there's never been a minister who should have left because he was doing well. And there wasn't a prime minister in all fifteen years who wouldn't say why they're forcing someone to resign and sending him away from their government. What was wrong with that job? What did he miss? What didn't they do that those ministers who were replaced had to leave - as if they were being replaced? The public should know why the Prime Minister is sacrificing his ministers or why he wants others. He has to tell the public, not talk about replacing them because they did good. In short, here's the director of this play, here's the setup on stage and the wrapping in an empty box. I think if someone doesn't make a class or exam, he gets a negative grade, not an A's or a 10's on the exam. The second farce, if I go to the candidate's proposal, is the second farce of this theatre to be appointed as new ministers. Personally, the Prime Minister doesn't care who he puts on the tray, not to say on the floor, as you wish. Three new ministers, two ministers - how we are suitable women for reserve roles, after all this is a matter of spare roles. Three new ministers will be waiting for three months in a safe place, they won't have to answer anything, because they will always have in their hands or in their pockets and sleeves that "would", "I don't know", "I don't know", "I'll ask", "I'll analyze," "Leave me alone, I've got three months." And when these 100 days pass, these three ministers, who will undoubtedly be confirmed, two ministers, another 'no time' excuse, 'we want to have peace because we have other responsibilities related to the noble leadership of the European Union', 'we are busy'. "Let us go." In short, no technical kind of operationality will have to be expected from them. And after six months, the second year will be just a few months before the elections, and at that time, it is usually the prime task of ministers to do as little work as possible and to promise as much as possible; as many smiles as possible, so few acts. With all this theatre, the key question is where is the interest, where is the interest of citizens and the public and where is the national interest in such a reconstruction of the government. It is not, because in some way it goes beyond this directing of some allowed rod or some rule, also dramatic, saying that on stage not all that is made up is not allowed. And what do people think when I hear an opinion like that? I think they believe it is for the good of the people and agree that the new minister or candidate for the Minister of Health says that health care, this area does not know that it does not really know where the house is, but that it will be taught, but that it is quick to learn and that it is full of energy and that it will bring everything in. When we analyzed when and how, we know she doesn't even have to be brought in. The minister's candidate also said at the hearing that she really doesn't know where the ministry is, but she can find the door, because she's got a lot of energy, and she's gonna leave all the backpacks at that door because that door is too narrow for the luggage she's carrying. She didn't talk about this luggage. In fact, I forgot all the ways and features or tools and grips that he once had in other times when he was still in opposition, the current diameter, which, at a certain suspicion, had already incriminated someone. What about when that suspicion was a little more justified? In short, the minister, the candidate for Minister - Lapsus - is understandable, it is clear that today the minister will be the candidate we are talking about - said that she will renew her experience, perhaps not only in Slovenia, but also in other continents, China, and I think people are pleased because they say, but courage is also worth something. In short, it's an experiment. Today we have heard that such experiments are dangerous, already in some of these performances in the National Assembly, the director was not a witness to them, but these experiments do bring some variety that makes life more lively, but I think it is not necessarily healthier in the light of the public interest. By forcing John Janša to resign three ministers, he certainly turned his attention to those problems that remained in government, which were in disarray. And this is the second chapter, which is also not being discussed because we are all kind of preoccupied with what anyone thinks, where it comes from; in short, we are busy with exactly what the Prime Minister saw happening - employment with thinking about new candidates. By diverting attention from some candidates to the state of government, he also, of course, protected those ministries that are literally in dispersion. If any, it certainly applies to the Ministry of Culture. Some lemons have also happened that how is it okay, if it is coming - and today John Janša has talked a lot about it, about how nice it is if the managers come to the government, how they will do everything that the great ministers who had to go did not do. But if I repeat what I've heard and what's important is that managers need to know where they're coming from. They need to know how crisis companies solve, what problems they face, how they need to be able to detect, assess, and also have the tools at their disposal to rehabilitate businesses, and how to rehabilitate those institutions they enter. Well, these managers with whom the government will now be equipped have admitted that they don't know the problems, they don't have the tools, they don't have the analysis of what they're going into; in short, as was said today, they're going into an empty pool, thinking that the water is very high there. What is important to us - I cannot support a minister who does not know where she is coming from, but what is important to us is certainly that we are monitoring her work and not ordinarily that she is occupied with the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union or not, but is occupied sufficiently responsible with the questions of people and those questions left by the former Minister who had to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u103	Thank you. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin with a rhetorical question that I was reminded of by my fellow Member of the ruling, largest coalition party: Was the Minister really a bad minister? Oh, no, not yet! We only heard that a few days before the minister had to resign. It is, I believe, the relaxed innovation of the government of Janez Janša this time went so far as to replace three, not just one good minister, three good ministers. Granted, the government of Janez Janša is, unlike previous governments, which have worked poorly, innovatively, relaxedly innovative if you want. But, you know, this innovation smells fair to me, respected colleagues and colleagues. In our presentation of the SDS position today, we have heard everything earlier than a few good key arguments why a candidate for a minister is worthy of our trust. No, the President or the leader, I apologize, the largest coalition party is actually talking about the content of the poor work of Minister Bručan. In fact, he spent 20 minutes confirming to the entire opposition, who was shouting out loud about the need for interpretation of the work of the Minister of Health on the work of the retired Minister of Health. 20 minutes, once again, I stress not a single argument so far, but I have not heard a truly professional argument, nor by the President of the Government, who would speak in favour of being a candidate for a minister who deserves to be trusted. I'm not going to say I'm confused because I was actually listening to the justification for interpolation. No, no, no. Far from being used to this government's behavior. Because I know that individuals in the SDS can very well manipulate words spoken in the framework of working bodies or at meetings of the National Assembly. Manipulation, deception or lies - I'll put an equation in between. The Prime Minister of the Government said that on the working body yesterday morning, the candidates were said to have been out of the profession. No, no, no. It's manipulation. Public manipulation, respected colleagues and colleagues. The candidates for the Minister were made statements, but the justified allegations that she does not know the health system in our country; she does not know the health system, she does not know the policy, the direction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He does not even know how the whole legislative process is going on, what is going on in the government, what is going on in Parliament, who is responsible for the decisions taken by the government, who is sending a government coalition to Parliament and in Parliament. The Minister or, I apologize, the candidate for Minister has made it clear and loud that it comes from zero. One year until the new elections, we have heard that there is very little time left for her work in the internal political field, due to the 100 days of peace when a candidate for a minister or a minister will order analyses for her past work, 100 days of peace, then I think she will come on December 21st, as a colleague calculated yesterday when the first actual working day for her is. After that, Christmas-new holidays, 1.1.2008, respected colleagues and colleagues, and the Presidency of the European Union already lasts six months. Then it is 15 working days, then there will be government or parliamentary holidays, and there will be an election campaign, and there will be new elections. It is a matter of manipulation, not only with you, respected coalition MPs, but with the entire Slovenian public. That because I don't have a lot of time, I'm going to leave some time for my fellow Members, and I'm going to say that, and I've already heard that today, and I also appreciate the "fair" candidate's approach, the approach, the approach, the fair approach, because she's been so revealed that she said she came out of nowhere, the area doesn't know, and that she really knows the only thing about the area she's going to cover and who she's going to be responsible for, where the Ministry of Health building is about. Now I'm asking who's making fun of who in this country. There were no very well-founded arguments that spoke of a government policy, a government policy implemented in the field of health, something very wrong about this policy being bad, because this policy is moving away or towards health becoming a good thing on the market: if you have money, then you can get quality health services. And what the President of the Government did when he dismissed Minister Bručan, when he shut down or prevented health policy from taking place in Parliament, you know, he just blurted out, blurted out what was going on in this area - this is what I hope to say here and now. And if the candidate for the minister said that her only vision was to provide a user-friendly environment, yes, I doubtless agree with her that it is much better to come to a place where she hangs on the wall of the painting than to a place where the walls are naked, but I fear that her vision will be answered in pictures of the Prime Minister hanging in all eight hospitals throughout Slovenia. You know, even so many candidates for the minister don't know how many hospitals we have in Slovenia and what the government is going to do with these hospitals - specifically with trebwell. Yes, she has heard that the municipality of Trbovlje is also somewhere, but that she does not know more about the project of the public-private partnership of the candidate for minister. And such a candidate is difficult for me to give my vote or, if you like, take over part of her responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u105	Mr. Franz Jazbec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Since I was also an opposition Member myself years ago, I find it somewhat difficult to understand today's debate, in which, at least at this point, the theatre performance was mentioned. This debate really looks more like a theatre performance, because the eyewitnesses who flew to the minister of Bručan at the end of the first half of the summer vacation and the announcement of the Minister's interpretation of his work and today's debate in which some discussers want to show the resignation of the minister and the appointment or proposal of a new candidate for a minister as a box depend only on what kind of cellophane we are going to wrap it into today. The fact is, if you've seen so many irregularities to the Minister, you should be so excited about his resignation today, and the new ministers, with their proposals, should help to do as much as possible, but the opposition facts and debates you are leading today do not lead to this. Even an insult to how this Government has not heard about the equality of women, how there has always been only one minister in this Government, and now that two new candidates for ministers have been proposed, there is evidence on the other hand - that it is a reserve, a women's reserve and a spare option. This is all a debate that does not lead to the productive work of the candidates or the candidate that we are discussing today and which will take over, if elected, the health sector. With the reconstruction of the Government, when we are talking today about the candidate Zofija Mazej Kukovic, it is necessary to say that at the presentation, at the so-called hearing on the working body, yesterday, she thoroughly presented her views on health, that she has a vision of what she can do in this year's term ahead of us and what is to be set up in such a way as to enable normal and better work in the coming mandates. The candidate’s advantage is certainly also that she does not come from health care, that she is not a doctor and that she does not come from the Clinical Center. All former ministers in Slovenia were former workers or doctors of the Clinical Centre. Undoubtedly, the new minister will also have to deal with the so-called "white robes", and these are somehow a special clan with which someone coming from these kinds is more difficult to manage. I think it will not be difficult to obtain a profession in the ministry to help the Minister, especially since the Minister has also stressed in her presentation that she will seek in all her actions a so-called social dialogue between the social partners. It is important that she also stressed communication with all partners concerned with health care. The second area, which was also widely presented, was the area of investment, which in the health sector was therefore walking, not only in the last term, but back here inherited an extremely poor legacy from the previous mandate. The Minister's candidate also had a view on how to resolve the award of concessions which had been the subject of charges to the Minister so far. In her presentation, the candidate also gave an emphasis to the national health programme. The National Health Programme has therefore not had health resources throughout the period of Slovenia alone for more than four years. It is true that this was at the time of Minister Kebra's ministry, but this national programme was prepared in the mandates ahead of Kebro. At that time, Minister Keber failed to prepare this national programme for the future, and so, at the beginning of Bručan's mandate, the ministry actually worked without this national programme. What is the national programme? The national programme is essentially some kind of ministry work plan. In view of the fact that Minister Bručan inherited from this ministry, such a work plan was not made overnight, not in one, not in two years, but in three years, because Minister Bručan, when taking over his post, had made one major mistake, I believe, and this was the one, and I also stressed yesterday at the "hearing" that he did not make the so-called tsunami, kept the whole team, including those responsible for the fact that the Ministry at the time of Mr Kebra's ministry had not prepared a national programme to make investments that were carried out in a non-transparent way, that some of the contracts that you signed today had been signed by the Minister of the Republic of Bručán that they had been made improperly in terms of corruption. They probably were, but all you have to do is look at the time they were ready and who was the author of these. In short, it is encouraging that the candidate is happy to catch up with or work on her department. It is also encouraging that she hopes to quit her job at this time, as she showed in her presentation, and I think that some views are appropriate, even when she commented on how she views imports of missing medical personnel in Slovenia. The fact that a minister or a candidate for a minister claims that good staff coming to Slovenia or to Europe to work will go where they will reach the highest level of personal income - this is certainly not Slovenia in Europe. This also proves that the decision of this Government to set up a medical university in Maribor was still correct and should be relied on only its own resources or personnel that will be raised in Slovenia and which will also be offered to Slovenian hospitals sooner than later. In short, I'm excited about the presentation and the candidate, and I think she's going to justify her trust that we're going to give today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much. And I'm giving the word to Ambassador Sam Bevk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In his speech, the President of the Government said that she did not necessarily have to be a candidate for Minister of Health. I completely agree with that. He went on to say that the minister’s or minister’s office was somewhere between political and managerial functions. We could buy that, too. He then listed the 15 countries of the European Union where the Minister of Health is not a doctor or a doctor after education. It is intended to justify its proposal that none of the two candidates come from a profession that is supposed to be close to the transport and health sector that will guide them. But he didn't say anything else. Unfortunately, I have not been able to verify all 15 of these cases. In fact, he was silent that those ministers or ministers had other necessary or at least desirable qualifications as indicated by the Prime Minister of the Government. For example, the Minister of Health of Italy, Livia Turco, was already the Minister for Equal Opportunities, followed by the Minister for Social Solidarity, and the Member's two mandates. It is said that he has extensive experience in the field of the executive and legislative branches of power. The Greek minister was the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the Member of Parliament and the Minister of Transport. The Swedish Minister was the Prime Minister of the Party, a longtime Member; the English Minister had previously served as Minister for Trade and Industry, and he was also Minister of Higher Education. In Belgium, however, the Minister was formerly the mayor and the Member of State and the Secretary of State for European Affairs. However, sufficient work experience is needed. I said earlier that it would be time to show whether it was sufficient for the Ministry to run that the candidate came from the economy and was formerly the director of the company. I would like to draw the attention of the candidate for the Minister of Health to one substantive problem, which is the problem of hospital infections in our health institutions and also in a number of nursing homes. I have regularly drawn attention to these problems since 2001 to many of the questions and initiatives of the Minister, Dr Dušan Kebra, and also Minister Andre Bručan. Although the situation has improved in these six years, it is not yet satisfactory. Six years ago, when I first asked about measures to prevent hospital infections in health institutions in the country, I said that 1 out of every 10 patients would get an infection in the hospital. I would therefore appeal to the future minister to ask and know how safe or dangerous Slovenian hospitals are from the point of view of hospital bacterial infections. The most dangerous is, of course, MRSA infection, which has become resistant to all antibiotics. MRSA is still a pressing problem of Slovenian hospitals today. The condition did not normalize, and the phenomenon became commonplace. Almost half of the detected MRSE carriers acquire this bacteria in hospitals. Four years ago, I noticed in professional literature that hospital infections in Slovenia killed between 400 and 600 people each year. This is a high figure, higher than the annual number of deaths in traffic accidents in the country. However, measures to reduce hospital infections are relatively simple according to the professions. One of them, the simplest, is primarily consistent disinfection of the hands of medical personnel. And to conclude. On the 1st item of the agenda, I drew attention to the unwritten rule that the government normally enjoys 100 days of peace at the time of its appearance by the opposition. Unfortunately, however, we cannot automatically take over this reconstruction of the Government, which is only minimal. Given that the opposition, during the Presidency of the European Union, is supposed to take a constructive stance on the government and not propose interpretations against ministers or propose non-trust to the President of the Government, this would mean that it would take those 100 days into account for the future three ministers to have complete peace there until the end of their term of office. This, of course, is unacceptable. As an opposition Member, future Minister of Health, I cannot give my support. We will not support the reconstruction of the Government in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Finally, as I said earlier this morning, we voted against this government at the end of 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Bojan Homan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Dear fellows, you are very welcome! When I listened to a hearing yesterday on my mother's committee for a candidate for a minister, I can say that I was impressed by the positive impression that it is coming from the economy and that it has a lot of experience in how to earn money and how hard it is to spend money wisely, compared to the rest of the ministers who were previously in this ministry, who come from these non-economic structures and have so far been used only to draw money. And here we also have a new role to play in making money. If she's going to pass on this experience to doctors, I think she's going to do a lot. I immediately noticed that he knew that he also had this soft hand, which he also needed to run this ministry, and I am not worried that she would not be able to run this required ministry. She kept mentioning indicators in her presentation. So far, I have not noticed at any of these ministries, nor do we yet have these indicators of how to evaluate or measure a good work, what a good one has done or what a bad one has done. If we had introduced indicators such as those made in the economy, we could measure a process quickly in each industry, find success if we can move it into this non-economic sphere, I think we will be able to do a lot and that we will also better assess the work of ministries, how good they are or how bad they are. To date, we have not noticed that we would have some indicators in our health care regarding the quality of hospitals, doctors. When we go on vacation, we can choose a hotel, we can choose stars from hotels where we go, to a hotel with one star to five stars, in hospitals with these indicators or we don't have those stars yet, and the candidate somehow indicated that there is also a need to make some comparison between hospitals, so that we can separate good hospitals, good, bad, average maternity homes, and just so that we know how to assess doctors, every end of the year, whether it's good or bad. I wouldn't look so black on that choice. I think it is a good choice, but time will show how happy the mandate holder had in this choice. But I'm pretty sure he had a good choice, and the candidate convinced me on the board, and she has my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u111	Thank you, too. But to my word, I invite the Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Like my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, I cannot support my own candidate for Minister. I listened here today and tried to understand some of the reasons why I would support her. You all say, thank God it's coming from the economy. But your first choice was, I think, a gentleman who came from health care. But this gentleman could count two and two, and he realized that it just wasn't worth it. As far as the indicators are concerned, my predecessor, and how many stars would have an old neurological clinic, if we were to make indicators and Mr. Bručan failed to do them. I listened here today and I had a feeling that it was whether or not we were dropping Mr Bručan, and you are advocating that he stay because he was doing everything perfect and great and raised Slovenian health care to unswerving heights. But if he's so good at why he went, then why did the mandate holder accept his resignation, why didn't we convince him here, our new fellow Member, that he's so good that he should stay here. But today, everyone would talk about how good he was, but you didn't tell me why the candidate lady would be here today. I don't see any reason to. You mentioned the words on your mother's working body. I have a magnetogram in front of me. I tell you, the lady didn't say anything concrete. She was talking about some numbers in the economy, some kind of crisis management. I think that at least the only person or mandate-holder has realized that we need a person in health who knows about a crisis, because health is in crisis, but the fact that the lady doesn't even know what kind of waitings are, she's probably been skipping them sometimes, given her current situation, she doesn't know anything about the operating tables, but she knows where she'll be staying around for the next year. But in the age of technology, I believe that the Government will also help her with GPS to find a building where she will live and actively be available to Members, as my colleague has already said 16 active days if we deduct the EU Presidency. I, this minister, simply in this country, who will hold hands with the highest responsibility, is above the health of the people in this country, I cannot imagine. I can't imagine a crisis manager saving health care. Unless it connects the Maribor Clinical Center with the Ljubljana Bridges and thus shortens the path for a rescue vehicle. She's not gonna get my vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word is by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Since morning, we have been discussing two points of the proposal for a Minister of Transport and Minister of Health, and our opposition has not found any nice words for both ministers in three years, and today they are suddenly worried about why they had to leave. Perhaps the problem is that summer vacations are devoted to writing interpolation that can now be thrown into the basket instead of vacations. But it seems very unfair to me that you continue to condemn that you are just candidates or that you are just players in some show that you don't know what they're getting into, what they're up to, what they came into the world yesterday, and they haven't done anything in their lives. In short, they do not know anything about what is supposed to be happening in the ministry, they are not able to learn, but there is something to learn, even though they have already proved this in their work so far, unlike some Members and Members, who are obviously familiar with everything, even some with less experience than the candidates we are discussing. To return to our candidate for Minister of Health. Also, I must say, she has made a very positive impression, she is a very energetic lady, she has a vision, she sets high goals, which, of course, is also a condition for something to be achieved. Those who don't set goals can't achieve them either. He has years of experience with work for people who need to be satisfied and motivated because it is the only way they can do well. And certainly this is particularly important in health care, for if those working in health care are satisfied, then the users are satisfied. It is aware that things can only be improved if we measure the effects of what we are doing, and it has therefore announced the measurement of the satisfaction of both employees and users, with a view to broadening good practices in as many areas as possible and reducing bad experiences or some tragic events. I think she's made quite a point of her own. One thing I have already mentioned, the next is that it highlighted the problem of the patient’s integrated treatment to establish records, treat the patient or his medical condition with all relevant information, because this is the only way we can be effective in the treatment. With regard to the construction of the Oncology Institute, the Paediatric Clinic, the purchase of equipment, the former Minister is aware that a good and professional tender is the first condition that we will be successful in building and purchasing. The second condition is effective control, which has obviously not proved effective during the previous ministers' period. Apparently, too, there was a lack of attention during Mr Bručan's ministry. Yesterday, we also heard quite a few remarks on the committee, especially from colleagues' mouths, from which we would expect a positive attitude and perhaps some encouragement from the candidate that the candidate does not know the details, that she does not want to be identified for the so-called health affair. I don't think the minister's job is to deal with the width of the doors at the Oncology Institute or any chair purchased at any of the Slovenian hospitals, but it's the minister who runs the whole system and organizes the work so that it's clear who's responsible for the width of the doors at the Oncology Institute and the equipment and who's responsible if there's anything wrong with it. In her performance, the candidate said that she wanted to review all the data first and only then to comment on certain content. Today, we can read so much different information in the media that it would be unrealistic to set guidelines on the basis of such different information and different data, perhaps to limit itself or to place problems that are not at all, but to forget any urgent issues that need to be addressed. I believe that the candidate is prudent and able to realize that we cannot begin to resolve waiting lines at the end, but we must rescue them at the beginning, because we regularly have to put out the fire instead of making sure that there is no fire at all. I will support the candidate myself, and I want her to be able to improve the individual segments of our health system, which is already at a relatively high level today, so that we can keep this standard and do something else where it needs to be done, not condemn it in advance and predict that she will not be able to do anything in one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u115	Thank you, too. And the word "messenger" means "magic." Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I welcome Janez Janša's proposal that he ask Minister Bručan to resign. This is because with this, Mr President of the Government has acknowledged that there are many mistakes in the work of the Minister of Health and other ministers. Seven months - as of February, when I asked the question, the minister claimed that everything was fine with the supervision. The control he's carrying out has no flaws. Well, a few days before his resignation, he named an external commission that was supposed to exercise super control over super control. However, with his proposal, Mr Janez Janša said more. He said there was a health crisis. For she proposes to a lady who studied crisis management at Texas University with prominent Republicans, as it is called. True, if someone thinks that a waiting line is being solved in a way that does not exist at all, this is resolved in the classic crisis management by simply abolishing the right. And today's debate, particularly some Members of Parliament, certainly convinces me of why you think that Mrs is the right choice. I asked the candidate myself some very simple questions, if she knew the concept of an indicator, which is called a "group of comparable cases". Why is that important? In a few days, the lady will be given a table to sign, as one of the so-called partners in coordinating the hospital funding programme and, of course, it is well written in there that Minister Bručan proposed in this contract, for example, that it will be necessary to pay four times more for helicopters. And if the lady does not know the concept, if, of course, the lady does not have a very clear position, she will sign this treaty peacefully and, of course, she will, I also said, be guilty of correcting Minister Bručan's mistakes. The lady says she does not know Mr Domn Zavrl, who has received a quarter of a million euros in tax advice from Minister Bručan's subordinate advisor, Mr Strah, with the help of two intermediaries. Mr Domna Zavrla knows very well the Prime Minister of the Government. And if, at the 2.10. meeting of the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, or the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, the Minister makes it clear that she will recover, in the interests of the State budget, unduely paid tax advice, then "kapo dol" before her. I doubt that SDS President Janez Janša will leave it to her, because then perhaps he would have a problem with Mr Zavrlo. Oncology Institute and so-called operating tables. But who proposed amending the law on the revision of public contracts, if not this coalition, which resulted in the purchase of tables that lower oil? Who suggested that? Mr. Bajuk and Mr. Bručan. We saved Mr Bručan, the rescue of the Minister of Soldiers, as was then said. We adopted a law to buy tables to be obtained by September 2006. The tables came six months later and oil was released. And that's why sometimes screws are important. So what's the proposal presented here by the Prime Minister of the Government? My shortest grade is the experiment. An experiment with the health of two million citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, however, of course an experiment in which apparently no one else was willing to bite. On the day of Mr Bručan's resignation, I met Mr. Mayor of Maribor, Director of the Maribor Clinical Centre, Assistant to the operation of President of the Government and addressed him, "Congratulations to Mr Pivec, new minister". The approximate answer is not to quote him, but "not in dreams." What is it now? He's a candidate for SDS County. Someone who, depending in particular on the Ministry of Health, will or will not build a medical university is not ready to take over the year before the end of the mandate of the Ministry or, of course, the President of the Government was not even prepared to offer it to him. No, Mr President of the Government has proposed to Mrs Candidate, a lady from the economy. When I heard this proposal, I thought, "Well, Mr Vizjak has left, we have a fourth minister," but then I was told that the candidate for Minister of Health will be here today, and Mr Homan said best that it is a lady coming from a world of earning. Be careful, these are very problematic claims and if this is understood by Slovenian public health care, we will have three five-star hospitals in it, all of them so many and so many hospitals, depending on how we count them, there are almost 20 of them going there, and with two stars, and we will have, simply put, 10% of the population of good health care, for the rest of them not, then at least it is necessary to abolish that provision in your coalition contract, which says you want to have a stable health care system based on solidarity. You want and you will create a system of health care based on earning. The big dilemma in health is what is the criterion, whether it's profit under the line or whether it's health. And the Ministry and the Minister is the Minister of Health and Not Health. And she is Minister of Health of Slovenia and Slovenes, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not one who will take care of the health of public service providers. So, we have an experiment, we have a lady who, as has been said, has a lot of will, she has very little knowledge, and I have a feeling that every meeting at the Ministry will now begin with an alphabet, and she talked about it yesterday. The minister doesn't have 100 days of classic time given to ministers, as far as I'm concerned. The Minister should and should come to the National Assembly sooner than in 7 months, as Mr Bručan did not want to come, and say what she would do to the individual in the sky with drunken affairs. Finally, only a parallel with one of the countries in the European Union, which is not very much, would say a good comparison. Mr Bručan said from these benches that, as far as he is concerned, budgetary supervision is very good. And then on the committee led by Mr Petek, we found and noted that not only did a quarter of a million euros run out for this tax legislation, but the remaining transactions at the Pediatric Clinic were obviously too expensive for at least 10 million euros. That is why we have agreed with the Minister, if I am not mistaken, that he should come to the Commission for the supervision of public finances in 2.10. Well, when we agreed to that, the minister was forced to resign. The Kaczynski brothers in Poland, in the Polish National Assembly, in the Fair, prevented the former Minister of Home Affairs from being interpreted, not by resigning him, but by closing him down. And in Slovenia, Mr Minister of Health has been granted a resignation, Mr Podbregar the indictment. What, then, awaits the next ministers who will not submit to the great President of the Government? And of course there is not much difference between Slovenia and Poland. The difference is that there will be extraordinary elections in Poland, and our President of the Government will be more likely to preside over the European Union with such a policy. If we hear from the Minister of Health by the end of this year how it will prevent the wealth of some who are closely linked to the President of the Government, then I will believe that she is sovereign and knows what to do. If not, unfortunately there will be only one more victim in this so-called government politics. Of course, I will not support the lady, because I do not want to give her a trip that will not end well behind her, unfortunately or with the joy of some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u117	Thank you, too. However, Member Christian Janc has the floor. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Mr. Gezi Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman. Besides, I'm asking myself a question about who we're telling. There are very few of us in the hall, but as far as I know, television broadcasts today may be listening to the public. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] It's over. [[...]] I'll still say everything I've been meaning to say, no matter what. Thank you very much, Joseph. If we listen to today's debate, the reasons for and against it, we must find that we live in a land of many very good ministers. On the one hand, we are listening to how good the ministers who are no longer there were, and in this part, when we are talking about ministers who are no longer in the first phase, they have written their resignations, two have even signed the same form, where they have only entered their name and surname, and the third has written in a manuscript in which it would be clear to understand, here you have my resignation statement, if you want to have it, in this sense because I do not have it in front of me. And all the representatives of the three political parties tell us how good their ministers were, but at the same time they had to swallow the "sunday" and agree that their ministers were going because they wanted to. Although, at the next moment, we realized that it was nothing. The Prime Minister of the Government also said how sorry he was that ministers had to go. But then we found out that he dropped them all in spite of everything. And, of course, with these good ministers who were the best, new ministers are coming to do better. That'll be the story of the story. Those watching us or watching us and listening to us cannot wonder what is going on in this Slovenia. And even the pious desires that some of the successors of the current ministers, such as the health minister, are to continue a well-established job as well as the previous minister did. They're all responsible for someone other than the opposition. The opposition is responsible for all the stories that have occurred in one and the other and the third. We are now talking about health care and health stories, which have already been fed up with the whole of Slovenia. Now the question is, is it true that Minister Bručan was behind all these stories, or was there someone else standing between him and the stories? What we found last time at the Ministry of Defense. That there's someone between him and the stories of the investments that are happening at the Ministry of Defence. And it looks like there's been something like this going on here, and maybe it's not really Minister Bručan's fault. Look, today you're telling us how everything was okay and right, but some things still don't work out. To have someone sign a helicopter transport contract that costs about 20 million dollars a flight, it would have been worth 20 million if this story were to go on. I think we still understand a little better in tolars than we do in euros. The first visit to the minister at Murska Sobota Hospital, he said, the previous government has ruined everything, the fault is that you have no equipment, you will have a complete hospital equipped in six months, we will change the law and everything will be "laufalo". We all supported a change of law in good faith that former Minister Keber may have taken matters too slowly or irresponsiblely. I think yesterday or recently we got room service equipment. It will now be almost three years of this government. But the stories that were there are hard to understand. We're all fed up with operating tables in this country. But the figures that appeared in this story still come in the daytime. Blonde, who had the exclusive right to supply equipment also related to operating tables, was able to obtain disinfectant chambers that were not suitable for those tables that were supplied by someone else. And interestingly enough, the invitation to the Pediatrics, where we already have a case that my colleague Squeakle is talking about. A pediatric hospital is the story of sick kids and someone's picking up money here, and it tells a client's February it's hard for you to accept that story. And it'll be really interesting if this money that's been made unfairly, this minister is really going to be able to come back. The hat down, if that happens. But in the invitation to tender for the equipment of this hospital, this lady reappeared, at least so we were informed, figuratively, substantively, verbally and so on, that the invitation to tender was written on her skin again. The rudimentary medical equipment story for ROLE 2, as we last found on the Defence Committee, the wrong equipment was delivered and the one on the list was not delivered. The one that's not on the list has been delivered. Everything's been going on for the second year of this government. It's not true that there was anything there with the previous government. And in this medical supply story again appears a blonde woman who came by the official suppliers somewhere in the middle and supplied what was necessary and what was not necessary for numbers that were incomprehensible and unreasonable. It means that there is really a possibility that there was someone else behind the minister or in the middle; of course, he had to sign all the things and it went as it went. And, of course, thanks for the good work we have done, we have heard many times today. Is all this really a good job? It's not for me. And the candidate, who will of course be elected, will continue this well done work. If this is really going to continue, then this horror will continue, which has already been happening in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Borut Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to say the following on this occasion. Of course, it is normal for the Minister to criticize the opposition. It is certainly easier and easier to criticise than the minister who is just performing, to defend and then to answer for some things in return, some of which carry a very long mortgage, not from this mandate, but from the previous one. And let me say something about this, because I have waited a very long time to be able to say it to the Slovenian public. What happens to us through electronic media and national television is no exception to the fact that every night we were informed that, for example, he dropped a valve in an insular hospital on a hydraulic table, which I find incomprehensible. I cannot imagine that some serious media can inform the whole of Slovenia of such extremely insignificant matters. In a large country, such as Germany, you might think, if you were to report in the main reports each evening, where an operating table broke down in one of the hospitals, since virtually all the journals could only talk about it. And what's even more unusual is that, of course, they've always hired a minister. First, doctors appeared in front of the cameras, who said what was wrong on the table that day or that week, and then the minister was responsible for it; in the end, it became clear that it was actually necessary to know how to handle these matters properly and how to do so. This took forever. And I also believe that the current minister must have had such and similar scenarios, which have taken place on a permanent basis in this Slovenian mode of reporting, in some way tired and at some point, either he has made this decision or he has consulted with the President of the Government about this, at some point, I simply cannot go on like this. That is why I understand this withdrawal in some way, and today, as a member of the ruling coalition, I will also confirm this change and then we will see whether in the future something different or whether the Slovenian public will be informed in the same way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. However, Member Joseph Školč has the floor. He's not here. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I heard there's a theater play here today. I don't think so. The question was: Why would a candidate be worthy of our trust? I'll tell you why she's worthy of my trust. Three years ago, when it was called the government or ministers, I was the opposition that was asking critical questions and comments about what the criteria would be for them to be chosen by a minister, whether it was an education, whether it was professional competence, whether it was work experience, whether it was advice, whether it was sympathy. What is it? From theory and practice, I know that an ideal leader must have some average knowledge of the area he runs, but above all he must have the abilities he is given, of course, and the knowledge he can acquire to lead. That's why he's the leader. Today, too, it has been heard that they do not have the right references for a minister, they have no work experience. I must say that we must be very careful about this. Since this criticism was made by the opposition or the Liberal Democracy, I will only give an example. Dr. Keber's former minister is a very good doctor, but he was a very bad leader, he couldn't get the whole thing, he couldn't even buy regular operating tables, he couldn't close the investment. He was a bad leader, a bad manager. Or another case, but I don't mean anything by it. My colleague Lahovnik is a doctor of economic sciences, a professor at the university, but he was an economic minister, but he was not one day running a business economic system. Therefore, I say that these criticisms and criteria must be very cautious. And here I'm wondering, is she going to be a candidate for the cure or is she going to lead? Is she going to manage or is she going to have an ambulance and she's going to be on medication? The candidate does not have specific medical knowledge, but she knows the health system as a user, as an intellectual. He knows what people want from this system and where the weaknesses of this system are. Madam candidate is a top management, management expert, a crisis management specialist, a winner of Part of the Summer Economics Award. Its expertise, ambition, was also heard with boldness and, above all, world citizenship, as we will preside over the European Union, is reflected in the success of its work so far. The key thing I am looking at is that the candidate has a good basis for fulfilling and justifying the trust of both the mandate holder and this National Assembly. The starting point on which it comes is completely different from what Dr. Bručan had when he took over the health system by Dr. Kebra. Dr. Bručan had to remedy the extremely poor medical condition inherited by the Minister of Liberal Democracy, Dr. Kebra, from the insolvent operating tables and their non-purchase of a linear accelerator, the unmanaged compensation scheme, the irregular payment of hospitals, the medical treasury deficit of 28 billion, to outdated health laws, there was no public health network, there was no health plan, there was no long waiting period, there was a problem, non-professional and irresponsible management of investments, the Oncological Institute and so on. Why am I saying this? Because Dr. Bručan and his professional colleagues have invested a great deal of time, effort, and expertise in making this recovery work for the most part, as the results show. Modern laws are adopted, some are still in the process, the most necessary equipment is purchased, financial resources are provided for the purchase of other equipment and investments, a good human resources structure is set up at key levels, relationships are arranged, a draft national health policy programme of the Republic of Slovenia, which contains strategic objectives and measures for their implementation, and timely and action plans. Weaknesses are also known, particularly in the area of the completion of large investments, and shortcomings are also in the optimization of the system, both from an organisational, financial and human resources perspective. It is still necessary to reduce waiting periods in certain, still problematic, health areas. And here will be the main focus of the work of the new minister. As I imagine, this is an upgrade to the successful work of the current minister. It will be necessary to take over and continue the work and projects, find and analyse weak points in the Resor system, prepare corrective activities within the framework of the coalition's and government's programming orientations, and so on. These are all the works that the candidate lady is well acquainted with and is highly qualified to do. He can analyze, plan, organize, manage, coordinate, consulate, correct, motivate and more. Above all, it will have to be able to attract and motivate the management and professional potential of the department, which I have no doubt about. In short, she's gonna have to be a real manager. And that's what Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovic is and knows. That's why I trust her, and that's why I support her candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Member Matjaž Švagan has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u124	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I would, of course, like to comment on today's statements by Mr President of the Government in an additional justification for the proposal for a new Minister, Minister of Health. Mr Janša justifies the proposal in a way that we do not have problems in the field of health today and that the problems are organisational and that the problems are of a financial nature and that we therefore need someone who knows about management and in particular risk management. He tried to tell us that it is not necessarily that the Minister of Health has a degree in medical school or that he is a doctor. I agree with him, so at this point I agree with him. But I cannot agree to forget that we are not talking about someone who has behaviour in the field of health care, health policy, health systems. We're talking about someone who can honestly admits it, and we'll never be able to tell him that he didn't tell us that about health policy, about health care, except as a user to date he hasn't done anything. And, of course, the responsibility here lies with our decision here today. We candidates have nothing to do with it, but it warns us, unlike the President of the Government, of the following. He can't imagine working as a minister until we have a national health programme. And he's saying that because it wasn't there, the health decisions were correct. She's talking about it right. And now I ask Mr President of the Government if the candidate tells him that he cannot work without a document that this Government has not been able to mediate to a public debate and then to Parliament for admission, and today the candidate tells him that without this document it will not be possible to take appropriate measures in the field of legislation and other measures, then I cannot agree that the problems are only public health procurement. And here is the fundamental problem of understanding and the attitude of this government towards health. The fundamental problem is this understanding and this relationship. Once again, I can understand that there are ministers elsewhere who do not have a medical university and a degree in medical school, but I certainly cannot believe that there are ministers appointed to openly acknowledge all the local public, that they know absolutely nothing about this area. I can't understand that! And as a chemist; my colleague Squeakle, I agree; we are not going to the experiment without knowing whether we will be blown up by it, or whether we will watch what happens if there is nothing, but thank God we will survive. And I'm looking at this proposal by the candidate in the same way - the parachutes jump out of the plane and the parachute doesn't open. And when we look for the one who didn't open up to him, we're glad he survived, and we're not gonna ask him anything but that he's alive. And in this way, I think we're being irresponsible here today because we have everything on the table. The candidate correctly said that she did not know this field. And when we talk today about what the opposition would set as criteria for candidates, let's look at the constitution! It clearly and loudly states what colleague Školč has already argued that ministers are independent in their work. And, dear colleagues from the coalition, you have written down the criteria for the composition, the criteria for the personal composition of the government. You wrote them down here, but don't stick to them. First indent says, "good knowledge of the field [[Of a kind used ……]] and second point, professional competences." Yeah, then who do you think's crazy if we read your papers? And at the same time, you're saying it doesn't really matter. The national programme, yes, who will finally give an opinion on the proposal for a national programme if not the Minister or the Minister. Are we just going to trust someone, I don't know who, to trust an expert? And if you read the media today, it says, first the introduction, then the analysis, then the suggestions. And let's look further at the coalition contract. Dear colleagues, look at the coalition contract! Why am I talking about these two documents? Because a respected candidate used this as a starting point - the constitution and the coalition contract. But she couldn't go through a coalition contract, because, respected colleagues, imagine what was left in here unrealized, which was written down. The question was, "Will the Health and Health Insurance Act be passed, where the most sensitive social groups will be exempt from the payment of voluntary, additional health insurance?" "I don't know the problem" or without an answer. This is of interest to the most socially weak inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In this program, we have not touched it in this analysis. I can go through your entire coalition contract, and I'm listing problems that can't be discussed, but there are no problems in the health sector, no problems in the health sector, but only problems of an organisational and financial nature. Of course, as President of the Health Committee, I cannot agree with this at all. If I add a chapter to this, say, the Health Act. I understand that the Health Act cannot be written until we have a national healthcare programme. We are in 2005, 2006 and 2007 without this programme. It was valid until 2004, colleagues and colleagues, until the end of 2004 we had it. So don't talk about not having one. The starting points that Dr. Bručan’s former minister criticized in the white book were expected to be replaced immediately. It has been said that in 2000, when that government was in a short time, all of this has been done and that now you just need the opportunity to make it all right. Unfortunately, these documents are not on the table. And that's what we're talking about today. Today, we will take on our responsibility. We will also assume our responsibility to manage this area within the EU during the Presidency. I can't imagine how we're going to have a discussion, because in the programme, and look at the programme of Slovenia's priorities during January 2007 - July 2008. An important area is to discuss the health strategy in the EU. Who's gonna take her? Who are we going to send into these dialogues, in these discussions? Here the responsibility will not only be for Slovenia, if we can so easily say here that, of course, a candidate who honestly acknowledges our shortcomings is appropriate. And here are all these arguments about which we consider that the candidate proposal is inappropriate, and responsibility will now be transferred to us, Members and Members. And the discussion on the working body showed that there were no answers to the questions raised. I will not open up a dilemma on all these issues that you and your colleagues have talked about because we are not coming up with any arguments at all. Of course, I am concerned about how we will pursue health policy in the future. It's about each of us. As Members, we will take responsibility for our decisions. There is no way I can agree that the proper regulation of the health sector will continue. Those are the words of the candidate lady. I find it very difficult to accept, and here I would comment on my colleague Bajc's statement, who says, "God forbid us experts who know everything." I wonder if that's why we're proposing to be ministers of candidates who don't know anything. I understand that it is impossible to answer all the questions. But don't let him answer any questions, and I don't understand that. In particular, the question was what would be the immediate reaction of the Minister in order to prevent the supply of any additional private insurance that took additional taxpayers' money for the provision of health services, which should be provided in compulsory health insurance. No comment. These are the problems on the table that will have to be solved. Not only through public procurement, but they're systemically occurring through the health system. I cannot understand, therefore, that when we are in the process of adopting provincial legislation and we should know very precisely what we will be transferring in the field of health to the provinces, the candidate for a minister has no idea of what we will do at the primary level, namely within the municipalities, at the level of the provinces and what will remain at the state level. How, however, if the instructions of the President of the Government or within the Government are to be followed by proposals for the transfer of content from the State to the local level? How to take on such a simple responsibility here, that in the field of health, we will wait for the distinguished Minister to become acquainted, to analyse the whole area in the field of health. Speaking of finance. See the figures in the budgets, how many increases were made in the budget for finance in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, specifically in the field of investment, and see what was done in the area of finance in the investment budget in this mandate. Just the first year, in 2005, you took 2.7 billion with a rebalancing and reduced the budget from a poor 20 to a good 17 billion. Today you are talking about how you want to replace old equipment in hospitals and specialist clinics for better diagnostics, etc. Yes, actions speak quite contrary. At the same time, talk about how we want to create conditions for better education of doctors. When we had additional funds for the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor on the wallpaper, most did not support this project in order to ensure normal conditions for the construction of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. The Dean writes to us every so long. You have also been alerted to this subject in the context of this year's budget rebalancing debate. So actions and words are one that is completely different from the other. And today, adopted for a year by someone, once again, I stress that it does not honestly tell us that this area is not capable of being an expert in risk management, and at the proposal of the President of the Government, who says that there are no problems within the healthcare sector anyway. It's a problem. Statistics show us important indicators of the health status of people living differently across Slovenia. We are talking about significantly different accessibilitys, we are talking about a significantly different quality. These are issues relating to the health policy system in Slovenia, not just someone who specializes in public procurement projects. That's the problem, actually. But I wonder if this problem of replacing the minister will also be resolved. I doubt it. And here I would like to draw attention to this fact. If we don't have someone who is credible and competently familiar with the health system and who can compare them elsewhere in the world, I don't think there's anything good about regulating the healthcare system. Because of all these elements that I have just listed, I cannot support the distinguished candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u125	Thank you, too. But to my word, I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. As I expected, the main part of today's debate is mainly aimed at discrediting both the candidate for Minister and the Government and thus Mr Bručan's work to date. However, this is unjustifiable and also malicious. Since I will not have enough time, I will focus mainly on some of the answers we received at the candidate's presentation yesterday, and today I want to keep these answers silent or present them differently than it really was. The opposition's observations that the candidate does not know the health situation certainly do not hold. He's not a specialist so that any area can be operationally accurate. I don't think anyone knows this, but he can fully present today where the most crucial areas where certain things need to be accelerated, where certain things need to be reinstated. He is aware of the difficulties with investments, which have been the cancer of Slovenian health since 1991. He is aware of the difficulties with public procurement procedures, which have been in fact the main reason for the many difficulties involved in the supply of equipment, in the supply of medicines and, finally, in investment. He knows the problems of the oncology institute, which we know of, at least as Mr Miklavčič said it should be completed in 2000 and we are not yet, but we are just ahead of it. He also sees waiting periods as a priority, he knows the problems, and he also realizes that in the time of Minister Bručano they were reduced in many areas and on average they are less than 35%. He knows the problems or pharmaceutical lobby, as well as the prices of medicines, which are still a large item in the health budget, but he is aware that further negotiations and additional rules will be necessary to achieve reductions, despite the fact that it is already under the direction of Minister Bručan that the medicines on a number of medicines have been reduced by 50% on average. And there are also savings in billions or millions of euros. And he also knows the problems or dangers that will arise in the future in the area of health financing. Nevertheless, it is aware that, with the compensatory schemes actually drawn up by Minister Bručan, we have accepted certain matters, it has so far arranged that the health system is tolerable. In all of this, it showed a systemic approach to rescue, showed or indicated that health care should be treated interdisciplinaryly, that not only this resource should be included in the system itself, and presented the priorities that are needed. This is where my predecessor actually deceived, I must say, the public was deceiving us, and he was also explaining how it is in the field of investment in health. In fact, in only two years, Minister Bručan has provided 100% more resources for investments than in all eleven years of the past period. These are the numbers that are clearly available. So it doesn't hold. Next thing [[End warning sign]] And I'm gonna have to finish here for the sake of time, is the discreditation that she was suspended from her former firm. This is a low attempt, for it is well known, and here is a record of the Supervisory Board a few days before its resolution, that its operation was correct, in line with the objectives set, and it also achieved everything they expected of it. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] By proving in the past that she knew how to act [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u127	Your time!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u129	Thank you, too. I invite the proposer, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government doesn't want to discuss it? Since all the debaters who wanted to get the floor, and we have 35 minutes left, I will use Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure and open the way for Members to apply for an additional debate. If you'd like to sign up, please. We have six registered Members and Members of Parliament. Everyone has five minutes. I call on Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. At the beginning of my debate, I will again touch on the word manipulation. I do not know whether this is the planned work of the Government, the President of the Government and also of the coalition Members, or whether I will not offend anyone, especially those Members coming from the SDS. Or they simply do not understand the very simple, simple words spoken in this House, in this Chamber or at meetings of the home work bodies. Why am I saying all this? A colleague in front of me said that at yesterday's meeting of the mother's working body by a candidate for president, there were specific answers to questions. And I'm going to say, yes, the questions were very specific. I'm afraid not. But there was one very specific answer, respected colleague Grill, a very concrete answer. For you have claimed to the opposition that the opposition is building on the obvious, that the candidate does not know the health system. But, dear colleague Grill, did you listen to yesterday's candidate for Minister on the Health Committee? The candidate clearly and loudly said, "Yes, I don't know the medical system, I come from nothing." Those are her words I'm summarizing now. Why am I saying all this? Because there's enough deception. Because the deception was also good for the work of Minister Bručan, he had to step down or give up because he chose to do so because the opposition was too rude for him because the opposition did not allow him to do what he was doing - he did well to warn the entire Slovenian public about the "good" in the slogans, the work of the Minister of Health. That even waiting species, I don't know, have warned that the work of the Minister of Health is good. I said, all honor to think like that, but me and mine, I believe that I can't agree to this kind of manipulation quite sound logic. I also made it clear to myself yesterday, yes, the minister's candidate is in charge of management. Among the main objectives, the Minister's candidate said she actually wanted to do something for the public good this year when she was serving as Minister. But what's "something for the public good"? There was no way to find out. But you know, these are key data, at least for me, as an opposition MP, so I can say, "Yeah, it'll be good."Can I say, "No, it won't be good." Either I give her my voice or I don't give it to her. And you know, when the minister said yes, and I agree with her, the healthy living environment is very important, but when the minister doesn't know what the problem is with asbestos patients, then at least I'm having a problem when she doesn't know what policy the government policy is facing the people of Zasavje, that's the problem for me. When the secretary doesn't know what autism is, that's my problem. I believe she'll do well, yes. But good for who? In my opinion, at least as was understood yesterday, the Minister has no idea about the government's health strategy. And that, dear colleagues, is the problem, and colleagues, I apologize. And for that reason, once again, clearly and loudly in this place, I apologize for my policy or for such guidance. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] According to my assessment, the policy will remain the same or less, I do not trust it and I cannot attach it to it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivan Grill, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I'll explain to you your manipulation. In other words, the word extracted from the context where the candidate as a guarantee said it came from zero is torn from the context. Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem has already stated in the introduction that there is zero in this area. And after they asked her specific questions, she really explained in her defense that if they had her coming out of the void, she was asking questions like she was at level 9. But I'm going to continue where I had to end up early due to a lack of time. Indeed, questions have been asked concretely, to which, without being able to answer the questions, in fact, more or less of these questions have already been resolved. The operating tables are on the wallpaper all the time. Operations tables have been delivered, all procedures have been completed and also completed in accordance with legislation. And even the problems that have been, and these are usually almost every major investment, have also come to an end. And the tables are European comparable, high-quality and also bank guarantees can be enforced if they cannot be fixed if this is necessary. It was a question of a national programme. Indeed, we do not have a national programme, but we know that the national programme should be adopted by Minister Keber in 2004 and then continued. It's true we don't have it today. We have a draft, but the candidate for a minister is certainly not the one who should now have in mind a national programme that we will be working on today or in the coming months. It was true that the specific question was: concessions yes or no. They were expecting an answer to say whether she was going to give them up or not. With what right can we ask it to act differently than the legislation requires it to act differently than it has in the past in many areas of concessions, so that this should be a pharmacy, that this primary health care should be a specialisation. Why should she now be predetermined to do something if there is no basis for it. We know who grants the concessions at the primary level, and here he tries to impute it to Minister Bručan again, as if he did it, I don't know what really bad work he's doing. This is not true, wherever concessions were awarded if the concession contract by the mayors was good and correct, matters are better. Apparently, he doesn't know the legal procedures, he's being manipulated again. It is true that when asked about certain matters here, what solutions such as these or other ones would be, it was fair to say that in the end it is only in Parliament that we will confirm the law and can also change it, and, finally, I think it is in practice. It is not the Minister who, after the matter is in Parliament, can influence Members in any way to do things differently than the decisions of Members. The most interesting thing here is that women's colleagues are the most critical. Here again is your duality, for on the one hand you speak with all your voice, [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] how women are neglected not to be named in the highest cities, but when the President of the Government or anyone else proposes to do so, he again tries to discredit himself unjustifiably with all the cannons. [[...]] Here this duality is obvious and I think every comment is superfluous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u133	Thank you, too. We continue the debate. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that with great mercy I accompany these few government soldiers who have very hard work and are defending, which is very difficult to defend. I feel for you, but I believe you don't. But you're acting so confusedly that you're doing a candidate a very bad bear service. Why will I tell you the bear in the next few cases? Someone in front of me said 'a candidate is an investment expert' - because health investments are crumbling. But don't tell me that the new candidate is going to propose a new budget balance. Who's "painting"? "Knowledge of public procurement" - do not tell me that the new candidate will propose a law amending the law on public procurement. I'm not going to be "barbat," because you won't support him either, because the last change is yours and the government is yours. The goals that the candidate said on the committee and here is a magnetogram from the committee for all those who say the opposition is two-faced, and I am not a member of the committee myself, and I had to read the magnetogram. Her goal, first and only on the board, is to do something for the public good. The government's policy is to privatize health care, public health means public health. Yes, you're already here against the proposed candidate, who is such a great health expert. This is also confirmed by the words of Mr Homan, a respected colleague,'she can get money', but if we talk about public health, she can get money and she can spend it, but we're still talking about public health. She will do something good in one year or public good in one year. But the whole government policy so far goes in the direction of privatisation, and you hire, force, run, whatever you want, manager. You're doing the bear a favor. On the committee, based on a magnetogram, the candidate said herself that it was in the field of health care, knowledge of the health system from zero. And you're defending what kind of expert this lady is. Let me tell you one more thing that someone said before me by the government coalition, I think it was Mr Ljubeljska. The lady is an expert and knows the health system. Really. You were talking about waiting species. Mr Bručan, your previous minister, my distinguished fellow Member from tomorrow, told me that the problem of waiting lines has been solved. Why are you talking about them? Is there bad communication between the government and the government MPs? You don't have this. I think you do, because mobile phones should almost work, unless Mr Bručan, like me, has been unable to accept you in four years. As far as Mr Bručan is concerned, there are only two options. The first official to resign on his own. If he gave up on his own, he disagreed with something or with someone in the government. He will find it interesting to watch him work in the sent-off benches. And the second option, unofficial, more likely, is that he was suspended. He could only be suspended if he wasn't a good minister. But you're saying that he's been the best of the best on this planet so far, even though now there's someone coming to rescue the crisis management behind him and he'll be even better. He'll even fix his mistakes. Who are you kidding, who are you painting? I'm guessing not to the Slovenian public. With this you underestimate Slovenian and Slovenians. Dear colleagues from the coalition, my vote for any candidate of the three outgoing, rescue or any ministers we will have on the wallpaper this week would be given if the President of the Government came forward and said: "Dear, we are in a major crisis, please help. Four months from now, we will be chairing the EU, and there will be elections in a year." Perhaps he would even convince me, and out of mercy, he would say that it is a shame for this country to be in a safe crisis for four months before the Presidency of the European Union, but let us give, and we will suffer with someone who has no "mild connection" in health care who has no "mild connection" to transport, and a speech about higher education will be possible in a few days, because we also have an expert already announced and will save us both youth and education in this country. But since you're not honest enough to admit it, I won't give you my fair voice either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that again. Look, my respects and colleagues. Of course, I cannot accept - my colleague Grill is no longer here - I cannot accept the fact that the opposition was engaged in an unfair business at the hearing of the proposed candidate. We held him responsible. We carried out it in accordance with the Constitution, where we checked whether today the candidate, tomorrow's minister, would be able to lead the department independently, in accordance with the Constitution, which will be entrusted to her. And we checked what you wrote in the coalition contract, that the criterion for the staff in the government is a good knowledge of the field. And today you tell us that we have done our duty to have bad intentions in this regard. There is no talk about this and all the questions were very correct, I myself have led this committee. From the beginning to the end, there was no personal question, although there have been strange insinuations about the candidate for several days, there was never in any case this issue, but we talked about the profession. And look, the Prime Minister of the Government says on the ground: "The transitional period of the change in the management of the Ministry may be as short as possible due to its rich experience and knowledge in the area of governance and management." We're saying it's not like that today. And this is also reported to us by a candidate who does not see a successful work in this area without a national programme, without familiarising herself with the situation, without analysis, until then the candidate will be able to carry out the ministry's business. That's what she's telling us right now. I have nothing to say to her. But we make a decision as to whether to trust such a candidate to manage such a resource. One of the issues that is very crucial is how health care is organised at the primary level and how it sees the relationship between health homes and concessionaires. As he sees the relationship between these two segments for the provision of basic health insurance rights and how he sees whether health care homes are still in place, as Minister Bručan argued categorically that this is a non-rational form. And if privatisation is a key element for this government to achieve competitiveness and efficiency, it turns out that is not the case. And the very correct question at this point was what the Minister's position was and what we can expect here. A further breakdown of health homes or the suspension of concessions for preparation - what you wrote in the coalition contract to do analysis, criteria for awarding concessions and so on, to find out the networks, that is, those things you promised them, and they are not. Mr Grill also mentioned that I had cheated in terms of what this Government had done with regard to hospital investments and that Minister Bručan had doubled these values by 100%. I'll just give you the information for 2005. For 2005, the budget was 9 billion 660 million and several numbers in the previous mandate. The new government, which has come, has changed the line on this budget item by reducing it by 2.7, i.e. to 6.5 billion. Then the question is, who's fooling around here? And we have tabled amendments to the opposition to return these funds. And the coalition didn't support it. I know it hurts, but the numbers speak objectively, properly, and they can't be fixed backwards. So much for correctness and credibility about what we're saying. Because today we want to present yesterday's hearing as if we weren't there. There we were, asking questions, asking questions, asking questions, hearings lasted almost four and a half hours, and the answers lasted four and a half hours, in exchange. And a lot of MPs just didn't convince us. And today we are also trying to present this correctly to you, who have not been on this committee, and to the Slovenian public, in relation to the proposal of the President of the Government for a new minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I invite Member Franz Žnidaršič to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! Our Group is in great difficulty with this proposal for a Minister of Health, because after listening carefully to the presentation of the answers and questions raised on the Committee, I must say that it has come so far that it will not be able to receive the weekly support of the four Members, perhaps it can count on two votes. With this, of course, I regret that there is a candidate coming who does not know what kind of resort it is going to be, because there is more or less widespread there, at least as far as the coalition contract is concerned. I'm just saying this because the coalition contract says everything we've agreed to do, and none of it. There is no national programme, no network set up, no management training, no new basket of rights and no health insurance to fill the cash register on the basis of full solidarity. There are no defined conditions for the award of concessions and they are granted "as" under a law that we have found to be null and void and that does not have well-defined conditions, resulting in a series of problems for concessionaires who have already received concessions and a series of tragic consequences for three state treasuryes, I think income, pension and health. If I mention only one defect - that concessionaires can register the bereaved salary for themselves and for the coworkers and from that salary they contribute to these cash registers that I counted, somewhere between a third and half of what all other doctors contribute to the public health system. If this is only one of the reasons why it is more than questionable to grant concessions there in three days only because the former Minister, although he has stopped the award of concessions, is aware of the consequences that have occurred and which were not seen and not expected before. There is no guarantee of responsibility in the tops, heads of health institutions. There are no barriers to black work in health care. We have hundreds of black outpatients in the country where insurance pays checks because these same specialists in the morning, instead of looking at people, make the kind from which they then draw self-payers in their black outpatients and so on. She's not the guardian of the patient's rights, and she's agreed we'll set it up. In 2005, only 18.8 billion Slovenian Tolars were used in the UKC illegally, according to a report by the Court of Auditors, and it is not known that anyone would be persecuted for doing so, in order to arrest someone, throw someone out of work or that the Minister would seriously ask himself what is going on in the area of health money spending. The one who left. Why am I saying this? Because he says he's gone because anyone is attacking him unjustifiably. Not today's, not a single word from the past from my mouth, I'm not drawing back what I said at the expense of the functioning of the Ministry of Health, because everything I'm saying is really not made up. But at the time of these large billions of black money spent, if I may say, at least proven by the Court of Auditors' report illegally, the state was stifled for two months, and not least with 200,000 tolls for an airline ticket in favour of the President of the State. And that was a big problem. And 18.8 billion is nothing. Of course, the problem is that we have not yet expressed our expectations to the minister. We will invite her to an interview, tell her what we expect her to do with what is still possible in this short time. At least something must come from the title of these points which I have stated, which are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. And in this case, if she does, we will support her, otherwise she will receive criticism from the first day after she takes up her term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u140	I must say that I had already planned to cancel the vote in favour, but Mr Žnidaršič said what any normal candidate for minister should know about the Minister of Health. And, of course, I regret that Mr Janez Janša did not take advantage of the opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure to propose to the other candidate after receiving the opinion of the working bodies. If I listened to Mr Žnidaršič now, I would think that we could find a better candidate for the Minister of Health within the coalition if, of course, that is what Mr Žnidaršič would have wanted. That's another question. The problem is, of course, that the President of the Government has escaped from the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly and there was neither the President of the Government nor the Minister of State nor the Secretary of State from the Ministry of State, I think this is today the Ministry of Agriculture, because otherwise I do not know why Mrs Tomlet would sit here. The Ministry of Agriculture shall be the Ministry of Agriculture at the time of its consideration of the proposals for the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Transport. If Dorian Marušič were to sit here, he could at least help a candidate for a minister or someone who needs to respond. Therefore, I regret that the President of the Government has not taken advantage of this option. And it's true, we have two bad ideas. The second one is worse than the first one. It's your responsibility. I will, of course, assess the work of the Minister or candidate for Minister, who is likely to be elected today as Minister, whether she hopes to visit the clienteleistic and corruption waters that rule in this area. We have evidence. Will she hope to tell the Prime Minister, also your advisor, Mr Zavrl, not to do so, and whether she would hope to tell Mr Bayuk, "Mr Baiuk, it is impossible that the Director of the Tax Administration will not allow the extension of the tax review to the Paediatric Clinic." Which, of course, should also require the responsibility of this Durs chief. If the Minister does this, as I said before, she will have all my recognition, if she does not do so, then the victim of the crisis created by this coalition in the public health system will not surprise me, of course. You're absolutely right. Unfortunately, the coalition doesn't want to hear it, even though it comes from the coalition's mouth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We concluded the debate with the debate of our colleague Squiel. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations under credit, which is leased by the environmental composition of the Republic of Slovenia, a public statement by the European Investment Bank for the financing of projects for the improvement of energy efficiency. We are considering the proposal of the law as a matter of urgency. We have two hours and five minutes to deal with this point. Sorry, I've been fixed for 50 minutes, but I don't think we're gonna make the most of it. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, and we are accompanied by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, who also gives him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u142	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The adoption of the proposed law will provide a basis for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, by which the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee the EIB creditor's obligations under the Eco-Investment Fund. The conclusion of the guarantee contract and its ratification are the main condition for drawing on a credit of EUR 30 million, which will enable the Eco Facility to manage its activities smoothly under favourable conditions for end-users, thereby encouraging the financing of projects in the field of environmental protection in Slovenia and at the same time contributing to the fulfilment of Slovenia's international obligations in the field of climate change. As you know, the project lending fund places great emphasis on the financing of energy efficiency measures and the use of renewable energy sources for the production of heat and electricity, which prevent the emergence of new ones and help reduce the negative effects of climate change. This is also confirmed by data on credited investments and their environmental effects. In 2006, the Fund provided 20 million euros or almost 68% of all contractually committed funds for the priority area of mitigation of climate change impacts by measures in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy use. However, the overall impact of these measures is to reduce CO2 emissions by a good 18,000 tonnes per year. It is particularly encouraging that 30% of citizens' investment measures contribute to this. Finally, it is worth mentioning that these investments also contribute to the fulfilment of Slovenia's international obligations in the field of climate change. On the basis of the earmarked assets, the Fund grants around €30 million of loans per year to promote development in the field of environmental protection of about half of this area for lending to citizens. Due to the increased demand for favourable loans and the drawdown of credits already granted in recent years, credit repayments up to 15 years reduce the annual volume of available funds, for the regular implementation of the Fund's programme, and therefore try to replace the missing funds with the available credits. In accordance with the 2007 Business Financial Plan, the Fund has already launched a public tender to credit investments in environmental protection for legal persons, while others for citizens are already under way. Since, in this and in the next two years, the planned repayments of loans granted in the past and the recapitalisation measures under the privatisation law will not be sufficient to finance the envisaged environmental investments, the Fund seeks to replace the missing funds of around EUR 30 million by borrowing a loan from the European Investment Bank, which will be secured by the State guarantee. The law provides a guarantee for the Eco-Inventory liabilities, basic terms and conditions of credit, a mandate to implement the law and procedures for the possible cashing of the guarantee and the manner in which it is paid through a specific contract concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the Eco-Investment. As is clear from the text of the law, the financial implications for the State budget would only arise if the guarantee was cashed and, in this case, only temporarily, since the guardian was incorporated in Article 3 of the law, it would provide that, if the guarantee had been cashed, the Republic of Slovenia would fulfil its financial obligation instead of the debtor, in order to compensate these funds by cashing out the regressive right provided for in the contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia between the Republic of Slovenia and the Eco-Slovenia, as laid down by this law, which is before you today. In the case of the renewal of the guarantee issued under this Act, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under item 6611 of the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the right of consumption. Dear Members and Members, the consideration of the proposal for a guarantee law at today's meeting of the National Assembly is proposed in order to speed up procedures to achieve all the necessary conditions for drawing up credit, which would allow for the smooth operation of the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which, due to high demand, must now replace insufficient funds with bridging credits. The adoption of this guarantee law at today's meeting could make a significant contribution to reducing the deadlines for the start of the drawing-up of loans by the Environment Fund, as it would open the possibility for Mr Maystadt, President of the European Investment Bank, to conclude a guarantee agreement at the edge of the European Investment Bank Forum, which will be held in Ljubljana on 27 and 28 September. The theme of the Energy Investment Forum, climate change management, is, as you can see, directly linked to the topic of today's law, and also represents one of the priorities of the European Union and Slovenia as chairman of the first half of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. At today's 30th urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia's Guarantee Act as the parent working body for credit liabilities leased by the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, a public fund with the European Investment Bank, to finance projects to improve energy efficiency. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the College of the National Assembly, and it was decided that this proposal should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made certain comments to Article 1 of the proposed law in order to make it useful and wise to complement and define more precisely the purpose of the debt, to define more precisely the solutions to the rate of interest and not to properly define the possibility of late interest rates. The responses of the applicant were then given, which he stressed in particular, since a similar law has been dealt with several times, as it has been so far. On the other hand, it was also stated by the Ministry of the Environment that it is very precisely defined what the Environment Fund can finance in the rules for the operation of this Fund. No amendments to the bill were later adopted. The meeting also highlighted the need for urgent consideration. We even voted on the proposal for a decision to end the point and move to the next meeting. Nevertheless, we voted on all six articles of the law we have adopted and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposal in the same content as that published in Rapporteur No. 80 of 4.9.2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings for the first time on vacation in my name! Let me briefly present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Obligations Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia and so on, but this address is very long, but the definition still seems too narrow. [[...]] We are only talking about energy efficiency in the title, and the environmental fund and its projects are not so narrowly focused, and this is, indeed, one of the key fields of its operation. Let us just mention that the content of these projects supported by the Eco-Fund by crediting is that, apart from energy, we reach out to other areas. Energy is very hot for us, especially because we have a negative energy balance, because information is emerging about how it will become increasingly difficult even to get energy from the Balkan region, and because prices are expected very soon to be comparable to those in Italy, where until recently we have sold cheap imported energy with large profits. It is a matter of paying particular attention to the fact that we are also supporting these projects because of the climate response, because we are going to try to keep those promises about how many thousands of tonnes less CO2 we are going to blow up because we are clearly aware of the problems of waste materials and energy use and of the huge entropy that is still emerging in this area. Because it is clear to all of us how little or too little we do in the field of water conservation, we are probably wrong to concentrate everything in the water pool in just one part of Slovenia, instead of scattering it to where there are other needs. And a whole series of such projects are supported by the Eco-Fund and supported by the DeSUS Group. We also support its functioning because, according to our judgment, it is very good, even as regards the selection of entities that can receive such loans, because it is not only economic operators, it is also municipalities and it is also private individuals, which, in fact, through such stimulation, we also prepare for a different attitude towards the environment and ultimately build some specific environmental form of consciousness in individuals. The easiest way to do this is to support it with favourable financial arrangements. We are aware, however, that the proposal for a guarantee law came before us at a time that is relatively unfavourable, although we do have a high economic growth, but we find that the trend is declining when we find that we need to be shown more than once to worry about the rise in inflation, when we are very afraid that forecasts of dramatic price increases that will in particular affect the socially more vulnerable layers will come true. And when the government predicts a number of anticyclical measures. This is not one of the typical anti-cyclical measures, and we therefore consider that the Government will be able to compensate with other measures for what will contribute to the potentials of inflation and that it will be able to take this into account in the preparation of the 2008 and 2009 budget. So in such a belief that it is important environmental projects, that these loans can help us to achieve a significantly better attitude towards the environment, and that the Government will be able to take anti-cyclical measures earlier in parallel or in other areas, in other departments, we will support this proposal in the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, ministers and his team! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent us a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for loans from the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, a public fund, to the European Investment Bank to finance projects to improve energy efficiency by means of an emergency procedure. The Public Fund, the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, was established to credit investments in environmental protection. The Fund shall lend priority to projects whose effects contribute to the fulfilment of Slovenia's international obligations in the field of climate change. In particular, it is the financing of various investment measures for the efficient use of energy and the use of renewable energy sources for the production of heat and electricity. The effect of these measures is to reduce CO2 emissions by a good 18 000 tonnes per year, with a 30% share being contributed by the investment measures of the citizens themselves. In waste management, the Fund encourages projects to establish an effective waste management system by increasing the raw and energy use of waste and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For the protection of the water environment and water as a natural resource, the Fund shall be included by means of favourable credits, crediting the investment of municipalities and municipal enterprises in facilities and facilities for the implementation of mandatory local public economic services, environmental protection, such as drinking water supply and waste water treatment and crediting companies, private and citizens carrying out projects whose effects are less burdensome and efficient water use. The Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, a public fund, must ensure that the environmental investment financing call is concluded before the end of 2007 and, of course, that it obtains the country's guarantee in advance before the end of 2007 and that it obtains the most favourable loan and, as a result, that it also places the beneficiary on the previous ecological projects. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the work of the Eco-Inventory so far has been in line with expectations at its establishment, its effects are also measurable, so we do not see the reasons for not supporting the Government's proposal. However, we strongly reject all discussions on the additional 30 million government budget debt, as it is clear from the statement that the fund is leased on favourable terms, acquired on the basis of the State guarantee and loaned to environmental project investors and not sold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Milan M. Szvikla will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u150	A warm welcome to the Minister for Finance and, of course, to Members and Members of Parliament! Vice President, thank you for your word. First of all, I must say that it is good for the President of the Government to change three ministers, because otherwise today we would not have an extraordinary meeting and we could not support this law and then, as he said, Mr Minister would not be able to sign the guarantee contracts at the end of this month. Why am I saying that? Because we believe that it is inappropriate and improper for the Government to send a new assignment to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure. At least what you could have done, you knew that even during the rebalancing period, you'd have sent it to the National Assembly on a balance sheet, at least. However, the matter is a little more complex than, of course, the question of when and when the contract will not be signed. At the same time as the Government has sent the Environment Fund in an additional debt of EUR 30 million, it is reducing the money for environmental protection by EUR 100 million in the adopted budget for 2008. Therefore, borrowing and no longer subsidising from the state budget is the way we will meet Kyoto obligations. We will therefore not support this law in the Group of Social Democrats because we are assessing that it is necessary to resolve Kyoto obligations in a different way. Above all, it would be appropriate to resolve this differently because on 4 September, when this law was published in the Rapporteur, the President of the Government spoke about the need for countercyclical action. This law is pro-cyclical, increasing debt. The quota issued in 2007 and 2008 will also be increased by €73 million or nearly €2 billion or 6.5% of gross domestic product by means of the legislation adopted today. And what's the problem with marriage? The problem with this law is that in 2007, when we abolished the housing allowances for the 104 thousand tax beneficiaries who were given tax relief to buy their first apartment, with our first doors and first windows, we abolished it, and we are increasing the liability that we will primarily be more wealthy, especially those who already have a house or apartment, to grant a subsidy to switch windows and doors. The law does not provide and the Environment Fund does not comply with any other criteria; the criteria are simplified: bigger than the project, more credit. And I'm asking you, why are you subsidizing and lending the most wealthy? Because it's the philosophy of this government. Because that's what you're doing at the time you took an apartment allowance for 140,000 young people and those who don't have housing. Therefore, the instrument should be different. The instrument should be interest-subsidisation, while taking into account the simplified, economic criteria and, of course, the restrictions applicable in this regard. This is the whole philosophy that needs to be included in a different solution to the environmental and other energy efficiency problems that we have in Slovenia. Therefore, we will not support and assess the law, in particular by considering the content of the operation of the organic fund, to reshape the relationship between the State budget and the organic fund and, of course, to consider different methods of promoting energy efficiency. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that you will also invite MEPs, members of the Committee on the Economy and someone else to a conference where these methods, which are known, will also be discussed in the literature, and we will be members of the Committee on the Economy, and in the future, perhaps by Minister Podobnik, if there is any more appropriate proposal, how to increase energy efficiency and how to solve environmental problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will give the position of the Ambassador Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting to the Minister with a co-worker! Messengers and Members! In the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal for the Republic of Slovenia's guarantee bill for loan liabilities leased by the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Investment Bank to finance projects to improve energy efficiency. The bill receives our support because of the content, this is a favourable environmental impact. Slovenia has accepted an international obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% by 2012. The proposed law aims to provide funding for projects that will contribute to reducing CO2 emissions by about 18,000 tonnes per year. By adopting the bill, the Environment Fund will also be able to credit projects for efficient waste management and water protection projects. These are all the reasons why the New Slovenia Group supports the bill. The guarantee under the proposed law shall be included in the quota of the State guarantees issued. The total quota is set out in the Budget Implementation Act, which amounts to a total of €918 million for the year 2007 for €1.043 million. The quota issued will not increase. We also support the draft law in the New Slovenia Group because it will achieve optimal conditions, both in terms of borrowing credit and other credit conditions, interest rates, drawing currencies, moratoriums and other conditions. The loan is leased by the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which will also be repaid. As a wedding before the European Investment Bank, the Republic of Slovenia will have to pay its obligations instead of the Environmental Fund only if they are not settled by the Fund itself. In this case, the Republic of Slovenia will enforce the regression right for the amounts paid together with the costs. Regression is the subject of a contract to be concluded by the Republic of Slovenia and the Environment Fund on the basis of the proposed law. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill mainly for substantive reasons. Members of New Slovenia want our country to meet the international requirements it has accepted and at the same time provide the people with an adequate quality living environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary to finance environmental investments by the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This would like to follow the planned strategy for promoting environmental investment, which will not be possible without an additional EUR 30 million. It should be said that the Fund credits in particular projects that contribute to the implementation of the international commitments of the Republic of Slovenia in the prevention of climate change. The proposed law will therefore form the basis for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, which will guarantee Slovenia's obligations under the Environment Fund. There is not really much to discuss when this law is being considered. Given that it concerns improving energy efficiency, I would like to stress the importance of saving and energy and overall environmental orientation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that more attention is needed to protect the environment through various measures in various areas. In the Slovenian People's Party, we advocate a healthy living environment that ensures quality of living for our citizens and citizens. In particular, it is important to promote the use of renewable energy sources and the production of healthy food, and education is crucial for a responsible attitude towards the environment that should be carried out at all levels; at home, at school, in the media and in other institutions and areas. I am confident that taking these guidelines into account as well as the successful functioning of the Environment Fund will contribute to a cleaner environment and to meeting the international conditions under which the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself. In particular, I would like to stress that the guarantee itself does not create significant financial consequences for our country. The financial consequences would only have been incurred if the guarantee had been cashed, but in this case the Republic of Slovenia will also retain the right of regression to the Environment Fund. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. And Dr. Pavel Gantar will give the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will indeed support the proposal of the law, and we will also support the hearing following this rapid procedure. We believe, of course, that this law is good, that the objectives are right and we support them. Of course, it is certain that this loan, which will be leased by the Environment Fund and will be guaranteed by the State, is not the first and, of course, I also hope that it will not be the last for these purposes. In order to clarify this matter, however, it is possible to say two, three words about the history of this Environment Fund and its special function, which it had and will continue to have slightly changed in the future. In 1992, the so-called Dobrič Report was formed. This report has demonstrated the literally catastrophic state of the environment in the former Socialist countries and has also signalled that this environment will not be financially remedied and provided with financial resources only through traditional financial instruments, as they were known and known until then. It is necessary to create specific institutions that will mobilise various resources to address the most pressing problems and inherited environmental problems. These institutions were ecological funds, Slovenia founded among the first such funds and apparently, as others say, this fund was one of the most successful and also the most productive in Europe. He was even a model of the organisation for a number of other funds in Europe. In fact, today's fund, which would eliminate inherited environmental burdens, is no longer needed today, and the fund could in some way even be abolished and simply transposed into ordinary, state subsidies, classical banks and so on, unless, of course, certain new tasks have emerged, which are mainly related to legal and other commitments in the area of, above all, combating climate change. This loan, which will be hired to improve energy efficiency, of course achieves two objectives. The first objective is to reduce dependence on hydrocarbons by improving energy efficiency while, of course, reducing CO2 emissions to the atmosphere through a more rational use. Of course, there is a fear that this is not a new threat to public debt. So far, the loans hired by the Environment Development Fund, a relatively professional and technological and financially qualified institution, have not posed this risk. These loans will, of course, be repaid by the final borrowers, as always, and the guarantee has only this function so that the government can boast in the environmental reports and, of course, improve the terms of the loan. In this respect, it is necessary to welcome this decision for the State guarantee and for the State guarantee. Of course, we hope and expect that the Fund will continue to fulfil this function it has and that we will face similar proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. And colleague Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u158	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary with the team! The Slovenian national party of the proposed guarantee law, I am talking about the guarantee, will not support it. First and first, why not? Because the guarantee law is not going to be adopted as urgently as it is. It is a debt of EUR 30 million, and the guarantee is not because, as my predecessor said, someone will boast that they have done something good, but it is clearly stated that the guarantee is that if the Eco-Inventory does not settle its obligations, the state will, of course, settle them. The point two, which has already been given to you, is once again two billion euros in guarantees in this country. I remember years ago on the Finance Committee when we talked about high rail guarantees, we would sell them a little today, no matter what the guarantee is, how much the state owes, what with the loan, who will give it, who will take it, who will pay it. I expect, of course, that you will say that the Slovenian National Party is anti-ecologically oriented. That's not true. Have we learned today that the ecosystem exists? Have we learned today what the ecosystem is supposed to do? Do we know today that the ecosystem is supposed to finance, lend to environmental investments, pursue environmental policy orientations, the priority objectives of the national environmental protection programme we have? Did we not know that the priority objectives of the national environmental programme are costing? It's not working! And like one of my predecessors said, it doesn't work, thank God we're changing ministers to talk about it, because I don't know how else we'd talk about it or what would happen. Last but not least, there is a warning from the Legal Service that the purpose of the debt is unspecified, I say precisely 'unspecified purpose of the debt', that the unspecified amount of the interest rate in this loan is that there are insufficient solutions for late interest and for the amount of other loan costs - so this is not of interest to us! The Legal and Legal Service warns that this is all indeterminate, that it is necessary precisely - no! Act by emergency procedure - let's go! The state guarantees $30 million, the fund, if you don't pay them, because the state has a lot of money, the state will pay. The European Investment Bank will conclude a loan contract with the Eco-Institution and then with the Republic of Slovenia for the guarantee. In other words, colleagues and colleagues, go now and if you can today, and I will give you, we had - no, we didn't have 12 hours, from 8 to now, no, 8 hours - go and find them, and bring them here in eight hours friends, acquaintances, colleagues, relatives who will go to your weddings in eight hours for, say, buying a house. Bring them in. The bank requires you to take a loan, three weddings. Bring them to me in eight hours - you won't find them! But this country will give the guarantee just like that, without knowing exactly why, just to talk about how we're going to have less CO2 and so on. To the extent that this is the case, of course, I will ask my colleagues and persuade them to make another proposal for the guarantee law, namely to buy new cars for all Slovenians. New cars have much less exhaust gas, CO2. And if you're counting on this country to have a few hundred thousand cars, they'll all be new, and they'll, I don't know, 700 thousand cars have CO2 emissions at least three times smaller. Let's play this game if we go. The country already has a guarantee of €2 billion. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] And now we're taking it again. [[...]] Be smart and please don't go taking things like this overnight.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the Act's supplementary proposal [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Thank you very much. We can proceed. [[...]] Therefore, since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 4. Dot, this is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Change Act. We have 1 hour and 5 minutes at our disposal for this point. At its 21st meeting on 18 July this year, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to decide again before declaring the law on amendments and additions to the law on the property transformation of insurance undertakings. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Mag. Sweet Jenko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u160	Honourable Members, honourable Members, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. The Council of State has adopted a request for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance. I don't think it would make much sense to repeat the things you've got in written materials, and I'm going to focus mainly on the most difficult arguments or arguments that have the greatest weight. The State Council, as you know, does not have any political ambitions, but is primarily established in terms of representing civil society and representing the interests of citizens. Why did we decide to make that request? For this reason, in particular, because we considered that the National Assembly in deciding on this law might be too hard to hear, but it did not take into account the weight and consequences of this decision, because we do not consider that it is acceptable for citizens or for the Council of State to violate the principle of equal treatment of natural persons with regard to the visa of legal persons. The arguments put forward by the Government as a proponent and the arguments which have led to the adoption of this law in order to make it impossible to identify natural persons as beneficiaries, we believe that they do not have the right weight, since, before a similar problem, the State was also a party to the first part of privatisation, namely to beneficiaries, legal persons. In this case, too, it was difficult to determine who the beneficiaries were. The Council of State does not embark on technical solutions to the exercise of privatisation or to exercise entitlements to natural persons, but proposes to the National Assembly to resolve such problems in such a way as to establish obligations or procedures in the specific law provided for in the previous law. The objectives of this law were, in particular, effective governance, which is indisputable, although it is concluded that the state of property does not manage the best. And the second purpose of the law was to take possession of the widest possible range of beneficiaries or owners. The proposed solutions in the existing law to transfer assets belonging to natural persons or beneficiaries to the Capital Society are not acceptable to the State Council. It is often operated in public with numbers that are far from reality. Therefore, I would like to say some unofficial data only for one of the insurance companies privatised under this law, which has the largest market share, namely the Triglav Insurance Company. Its capital is divided into 5 million 683 thousand 787 shares. The share was worth 100 euros when they participated in the ownership of the legal person. Currently, the value of one share of Triglav Insurance is EUR 480. There is already a discrepancy here or a violation of the principle of equal treatment of beneficiaries. Or, in other words, market capitalisation or the market value of the Insurance Company is EUR 2.7 billion. In the case of strategic links or the sale of the Triglav Insurance Company, this amount, including the market value and the takeover premium, would mean EUR 3.9 billion, which is more than half of the national budget, or perhaps for those who have not come so quickly from the euro tolars, to say that this is 936 billion former Slovenian tolars. It's the property of the citizens. It is not acceptable for the Council of State that these entitlements belonging to citizens, since citizens, administration and owners participated in this property. In the case of the arguments I have already mentioned and they had the greatest weight that it is difficult to determine the entitlements of natural persons, they could choose the same path as they were taken for legal persons. These entitlements could be distributed to beneficiaries, natural persons, and citizens could be invited to participate, since insured persons represent two thirds of the Slovenian population, or the third option is to receive this part of the capital from the pension treasury. I therefore once again call on the National Assembly to decide again on this law and to define it for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The request of the Council of State was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I therefore give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to submit a report to the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At today's 30th urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the decision of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Change Act adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 12.7.2007. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in short, concluded that there was no violation of the principle of equality in this law, which we have adopted and currently in force. On this subject, we had a longer discussion whether this law would be rejected or not. Also these numbers that we know - interesting is that which we have just heard is that the Insurance Company is worth EUR 3.9 billion at once - this is 936 billion of old people to understand each other better - but just a year ago, not a year ago, we found that even 100 billion is not worth the same insurance company. Therefore, such prices were also offered at that time in the event of the distribution of one million 959 thousand 157 shares. That's what these potential beneficiaries would get, not get, but should buy them, as has been said, at the price of 100 euros. So little here is just an exaggeration of this calculation of potential differences, and the committee is by most 9:4, I must stress this, because it is a veto, it has been decided that this law, which was to be adopted in the re-decision in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that the National Assembly adopts this law. This is the proposal and I propose to the National Assembly that this law be adopted again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. However, I give the word to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the law on supplementary explanations. With us is Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, and all others who participate in today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In order to implement the objective of economic and social reforms and to increase prosperity in Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision at its 84th meeting, in the framework of measures to privatise and develop the financial system, confirming the proposal for a way of withdrawing the country from companies where the State is the indirect owner through a capital or compensation company. In order to achieve the objectives of the successful privatisation of the insurance company Triglav, and to implement that decision, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of the Law on Property Change of Insurance. The proposal for a novel Law on the Property Conversion of Insurance is based on the conclusion of the advisory group on the completion of the property owned by the Insurance Company Triglav that it is not possible to identify natural persons benefiting from the work of the unspecified capital of the insurance undertaking. The Advisory Group substantiates that finding: for the first time, with the inability and long-term implementation of more than 750 thousand individual eligibility procedures. Secondly, the fact that, due to the timeliness of the difficult proof of eligibility, it is very questionable. Thirdly, it wishes to avoid long-term judicial proceedings likely to follow decisions and ineligibleness to a share. Fourthly, and by the fact that the extent to which an individual beneficiary is entitled would not justify the costs of carrying out the procedure, since the costs of the procedure would probably exceed the expected value of the share that an individual beneficiary would acquire. Taking into account that proposal, the law follows the privatisation objectives set out in the report by the Advisory Group. These objectives are to identify known owners, which will enable effective management of the insurance undertaking, and to establish such a ownership structure that will work towards the long-term development of the insurance undertaking. In particular, the Advisory Group recommends that in Insurance Triglav, States and legal persons continue to enroll in the management of the insurance undertaking and ensure that the benefits of the capital of the insurance undertaking corresponding to the share in the insurance undertaking of the natural persons in the unspecified capital of the insurance undertaking will be enjoyed by such a circle of beneficiaries, which will correspond as much as possible to the large proportion of insured persons held in 1990 by the insurance undertaking or its legal predecessors. The Council of State, in its explanation for the veto, notes that the confirmation of the law would violate the principle of equality. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with this position. Let me draw attention only to the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 40/01, by which the original law on the property transformation of the insurance undertaking was repealed in 2000. That was the ZLPZ. In its 43rd recital, the Constitutional Court stated that "in the part where a titler could not be found in such a way, he could be determined by law". The legislator has already taken advantage of this possibility in the current law on the real estate conversion of insurance undertakings, since its 19th Article, as beneficiaries of the ownership of unspecified capital and until the acquisition of shares issued for the unspecified capital of insurance undertakings, provided for only legal persons KAD and SOD. Article 20 also provides that the beneficiary of shares issued to the Land of Undeclared Capital corresponding to the share of premiums paid by natural persons is CAD. The proposed amendment follows the instructions set out in Articles 19 and 20 of the applicable Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance Companies, taking into account the actual situation, namely the inability to identify natural persons, beneficiaries of work of unspecified capital and the report of the Advisory Commission. I would also add that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, stated that, in order to adopt a solution which leaves a reference to regulation in a specific law, the legislative procedure has shown genuine and justified reasons and that, therefore, it is not possible to establish requirements for infringement of the principle of equality. The confirmation of the law before you, however, will also allow the establishment of such a ownership structure that will work towards the long-term development of the insurance undertaking and the realization of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the 193rd letter meeting on 27 August 2007 to retain at least 25 plus one share due to the strategic importance and long-term interest of the capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia. 25% plus one share. The confirmation would thus allow for the retention of the impact on key management decisions relating to the operation of the insurance undertaking and the transfer of responsibility for active management to the private sector, but also the appropriate reallocation of the benefits arising from the ownership of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Sok, I apologize if the National Assembly is in the way of your phone conversation! But it's enough to just wink, and I'll stop the session. Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u166	Thanks again for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, ministers and their employees! According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, the request for re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Transformation of Insurance is unreasonable, unreasonable and unacceptable. Although the government had a serious intention to comply with the requirement of the original law, a professional commission and a group with one task alone were set up to implement the decision on the distribution of assets among the 1990 insurers as well. Some 750 thousand insured or their heirs should prove that they meet the conditions for the purchase of the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company. They found that this proposal was not feasible in practice, since neither the insurers nor their heirs, nor the insurance company itself, had the documents to prove that they had paid insurance premiums in 1990. The large number estimated at over 750 thousand and the absence of documentation would create new injustices, and therefore the only sensible decision was to transfer the shares to the Capital Society, which, by its operation, provides funds for the pension fund. The fundamental principle for the realisation of which this law weighs is to ensure the effective privatisation of the insurance undertaking, as far as all shareholders are aware, or where the issue of the distribution of undeclared capital is adequately addressed. The subordinate law also follows the principle of establishing such a circle of indirect beneficiaries, income from unnormalised capital, which would correspond as much as possible to the wide range of individually undetermined beneficiaries to the part of the unspecified capital of the insurance undertaking. The capital company must exercise the rights arising from the holding of shares which it will receive under this Act in order to provide pension and disability insurance funds. In the medium term, the State is expected to maintain a dominant influence in the insurance undertaking, and in the long term it is expected to withstand at least 26% or so of the share that in each particular case gives it the power of veto over the most important decisions in the congregations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposal pursued in the law is good and that is why the proposed law on the property transformation of insurance companies will also be re-supported or we will not support the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Comrade Veršnik. And Dr. Mark Pavliha will give the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary-General, Fellow Minister, State Councillor, Colleagues and Colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the veto of the Council of State and also all further efforts in this regard, as we voted against the legal novelty last July. Why? We can say that the property transformation of insurance and reinsurance companies has been known as some kind of yoke of snakes for as many years as our independent homeland has considered. It seems, however, that during this new period of time, more than 750 thousand insured and insured persons will be killed by this yoke of snakes. It is true that the competent authorities should already establish the share of social capital in insurance in 1993 and, of course, ensure that it is fertilised for the benefit of all pension beneficiaries, and not least for the benefit of the state budget, but this has not happened. In 2000, we get the first Property Transformation Act, which did not last long, the first Constitutional Court freezes it, and then the following year it is repealed. The new law saw the light of the Council in 2002 and more or less still applies, except for one provision, and it still applies the sixth paragraph of Article 21, in which we made a very, very ambitious promise that within one year we will adopt a special law regulating the rights of insurers and insurers, either in the form of shares, pension vouchers or insurance policies. What soon became clear is that this intention is too ambitious, so in the Group of Social Democrats we supported the efforts of the Partnership for Development to deal with this issue differently; that the shareholder becomes a Capital Society, of course, with a view to managing the benefits of the pension fund, but that it is prevented from having access to these shares. Regrettably, then, this agreement has come to nothing on the part of the Government itself, and we still do not understand why, even in the Committee on Finance, we have failed with the amendment, so we have not supported the legal novelty. Let me put it this way. The fact is that the pension hole after 2010 will become a real abyss; that is, after 2010, we expect the beginning of the retirement of the largest generation so far. And a word or two about the latest floods we could have seen in the media about the possible sale of the Triglav Insurance Company. Let me say that the President of the Social Democrats, Pahor, has never and never spoken to Prime Minister Janša, but this could be confirmed first of all by any sale of the Triglav Insurance Company. It is true, however, that yesterday we set up a working group to address this issue, namely the third stage of property transformation, to examine precisely what will also be the basis for our further decision. Thank you very much. As we say, we support the veto.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. My colleague, Milan Petek, will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u170	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, both the secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! I will not applaud the Social Democrats because they are setting up their own group that will overwhelm this situation, but I will be critical of the government when I see this group, then I will see whether it is necessary or possible to applaud. Even after the interim rejection of the adoption of the law, i.e. in this rejection for two months, when we adopted the law in July, and until today's debate, the LDS Club has not changed its decision; hence, it opposes or supports the veto of the State Council. The proposed solution to the deletion of Article 21, paragraph 6 and 7, of the Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance Companies, with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to prevent the privatisation of the Insurance Office of Triglav of 35% of the capital, i.e. the ownership of natural persons, former insurers of 1990, is unacceptable for LDS. To date, all beneficiaries rightly expected 35% of the value of Triglav to be reserved for different possible forms of distribution among natural persons. With the adoption of the law proposed by the Government and the Parliament, such expectations are terminated, the entitlements are deleted and the reserved shares are allocated or left in the KAD, which can do what it wants with them. The government wants to convince us that the CAD will take care of the financial situation, or the state of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, and that spending will be transparent. KAD is known to have some bad decisions on the sale of its ownership or investment, the most infamous example being Mercator. And who guarantees that the funds or shares that we are discussing today will not be involved? We in Liberal Democracy, therefore, do not believe in a KAD with such a composition and such a political guardian. As it seems, the government has not even considered possible other solutions. Why, for example, not a direct transfer of ownership to a pension fund, or the formation of a necessary grant fund, or a subsidy fund for purchases or rents for young families who buy an apartment? The solution is more, but solutions must be proposed by the government or the minister. And another aspect of such a solution. Does it not mean insisting on accepting such a law signal that the Prime Minister or the Government as a whole has assured a good "friend" - this friend is, of course, under the headings - that Triglav will be more easily sold to him. And the clearance of ownership of 35% of the shares of natural persons is already a sign. The collection of approximately 800 million or estimates ranges to EUR 200 billion, to EUR 300 billion, to beneficiaries, which means between EUR 100 and 120 to 130 000 per individual, EUR 1,200 per individual, i.e. the latest estimates of this value, is the unacceptable facilitation of purchase or entry into an insurance company for someone who is obviously already a known partner, and the contested action of this policy. All of this, all of these doubts that translate us into this is the reason why we will support the proposed veto.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented to us by Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will also support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Transformation of Insurance. We believe that the solution to the question of legitimate expectations of natural persons is such that benefits will be achieved for all inhabitants. We are aware that disproportionately high costs of determining entitlements in relation to the level of the rights of natural persons would burden budgetary resources and thus burden all taxpayers. In addition, the Constitutional Court has already decided that the legislator may determine how property may be titled in a work where identification would not be possible on the basis of existing records. As is known, the solution adopted by the amendment of the law has taken into account the proposal of the advisory group to complete the ownership of the Insurance Company Triglav. This is such that the legitimate expectations of natural persons from the value of the capital of the Insurance Company Triglav will benefit from a range of beneficiaries that will best correspond to the large proportion of insured persons that the insurance company had in 1990. As a result, the Capital Company remains the shareholder of shares which have already been transferred under the applicable law. The adopted amendment, however, sets out the purpose to be respected by KAD in the exercise of property rights. This means that he must execute them by providing funds for pension and disability insurance. The capital company was set up to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance by managing its own assets. With the proposed amendment of the law, the Capital Society is transformed from a custodian to an active owner. As a good master, the Capital Society will have to make sure that the profitability of the pension fund is as high as possible, and this is also their basic task since its establishment. In the New Slovenia Group, we will therefore re-support the law, as we are striving for fair and transparent marriage solutions that are in everyone's interest. Let me also point out that, in the case of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav or the rights to shares of natural persons, nothing is taken away. In this case, it was only about justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister with a team. Also on this proposal from the Council of State, we discussed the re-decision on the amendment law this morning on the Committee on Finance. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support the proposal of the National Council, which considers the deletion of the two paragraphs of Article 21 of the Property Change Act unacceptable. To put it domestically, 35% of natural persons do not have and will not be able to be co-owners. More understandablely, in the language that you are used to, some are angry, others are not, however, that we cannot accept the absolute sale of state property in this area as well. That's not how it works. Sell out banks, sell out insurance companies, sell out railroads, sell out Telekom, privatize health care. With a large majority, the National Assembly has entered the EU, with 27 members today, and many of them do not allow such sales and sales of state property. And even in the Slovenian National Party, we will not allow that. Who today can guarantee that when he does not have the full share with which he is involved, he will not sell? Specifically Allianz, insurance companies from Germany? Who? At least this insurance was granted after the two paragraphs of Article 21. He's gone today. We say in the Slovenian national side: let us accept the veto. The adoption of a veto means re-examination of the law. At this re-examination of the law, of course, we will be able once again to hear very carefully the explanations he has tried in this short time available to the Minister, but it is correct to hear this explanation very clearly and accurately. And if all the statements we hear today and we hear them from those who oppose the proposal or I just say to the veto proposed by the State Council, then the law will be valid anyway. However, if it turns out that the Council of State was right and that it is right to retain those two paragraphs of Article 21, then the picture will be completely different. Let us be honest with all citizens and citizens, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to give you all a great deal of success in next year's elections, and I would like to allow you to continue to draft the legislation of this country, the Republic of Slovenia, for another four years. Only if we sell out everything we have today do I not know what we will decide and what laws we will adopt in the coming term. The State Council is proposing a veto. Let's be fair, let's accept it. We will allow this to be a re-examination of this law. We will hear arguments, both from all competent institutions, institutions and experts. And if they convince us that, just as the proposed law on which it has been vetoed speaks, the situation will be the same as if we argue today and end up hearing too much, we do not accept the veto. The situation will be the same, but we'll all have a clear conscience. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I do not think that the adoption of this veto will delay the content on time and I propose that we adopt it and, on the basis of the re-examination of the law, we decide once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u175	My friend Barovic, we're deciding on the veto today. Today is the last stage of the law. Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, now that we have heard a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, it is clear to everyone that none of the groups of Members has changed the positions that they had drawn up when we adopted the law. So this veto, which is completely legitimate, requires re-examination, has stumbled upon the environment in which the law was passed, and there is no indication that it could be vetoed today; in particular not because I have to say once again that the message of how the parliamentary group voted for the first time was completely wrong, mispublished and, as it voted when the law was adopted, it intends to vote now. So, in support of this law we're talking about. When we talk about the legitimacy of the veto, we are surprised, however, that the State Council, as an eminent political body, as part of Parliament, is talking about having no political ambitions, no political interests, and that this Malone is not a political action. Here something will no longer be 'numbered', but nothing is wrong, it is only necessary to be aware that it is political interests and that it is not a simple calculation, who will get more and for the many insinuations that we have already heard today. For us in the DeSUS Group, even though we do not change our position before time, as at that time, the situation is such that we are conceived, concerned and we are not sure that this solution, which is proposed, is really the best for all time. We allow the possibility that later something can also be abused, that someone has serious intentions that some explicitly read, but we simply do not believe in such predictions. In the forecast of how all of this will be sold to Allianzu tomorrow, or in 5 days, or perhaps in a week, and just like the salad defenses on the Ljubljana market, it is probably not possible for him to go, although who the current administration of KAD doesn't trust or who doesn't trust who says they are its political guardians. Perhaps another political option does not trust any future, another administration and other political guardians, and this is also legitimate in Parliament. So don't trust those interests that explicitly appear to be opposition to the proposal that we now have on the table. In particular, I would like to point out that, when we made our decision, we weighed among the many options presented: from how to allocate resources for development for the most talented students, i.e. for a small group of people who are otherwise in need of support in their study and progress, to how to move everything together to the state budget, to those who are supposed to transfer the funds to the PPA and would probably be most inclined to do so if an appropriate majority consensus could be reached. But it's not. And what is now real is that ownership in KAD does not change and that active management of this property is also allowed. It must also be noted that it is not what some today wanted to show as if everything had been given, as if nothing had been bought, as if there had been no portions obtained with some payments and as if someone were now taking what was intended for them with some free transfers. It wasn't there, it wasn't there before, and now it's not there. That is why we will support what seems to us to be going into the concept of a reform policy that is talking about how good it would be if policies were to move away from the economy a little faster. That it would be good if the state were not an increasingly portfolio investor and not with large shares that could set up administrations and also put them off when it was convenient. It would be good if the investments of KAD were to be dispersed as much as possible when they were to be internationalised, so that if we also allowed this possibility and were not constantly afraid that any good investor would come from elsewhere. In order to dissipate also because greater dispersion might provide better profitability or at least greater security for these individual investments. And since there are many such things and ambitions that we have written both in the coalition treaty and in the reform documents that speak for the approval of this law, the parliamentary group has also decided to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 7:30. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the assembly meeting, which we will continue, as we say, at 7:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u178	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We are moving on to the end of the first item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a Minister of Transport. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Mag. Radovan Žerjav. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I'm guessing he's a mag. Radovan Žerjav is appointed Minister of Transport. [[Let's hear it.]] I congratulate the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on his appointment and wish him to perform his duties successfully. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u179	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u180	I hereby conclude this agenda item. If you'd like, Mr. Secretary, to address the National Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u181	Thank you very much to all the Members who have supported me. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u182	Thank you, too. We are moving on to the end of item 2 of the agenda - the consideration of the candidate's proposal for a Minister of Health. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovič is appointed Minister of Health. You want an explanation of the voice, I see, yes. I'm opening an application on behalf of the parliamentary groups, please, all those you wish to contact. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u183	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This explanation will, of course, cover both candidates, but in the previous vote you did not notice that we also gave signs in the Group of Liberal Democracy in order to speak. But anyway, the whole process, the whole developments in the exchange of ministers, of course, are such that not only can we not give support to the new ministers, but we must say more firmly and very clearly that we are against the new candidates. In fact, ignorance has never been a quality. Mrs Zofija Kukovic, in her presentation, for an hour and 20 minutes, said in fact that she freely acknowledged that she had no idea in the coming year that she did not know who would be her co-workers, that she did not know the problem, that she did not know how to solve it, that she would certainly use European experience, but she did not say which: Bulgarian, Romanian, Danish, Dutch or any of these experiences, which were very, very different. So, despite the fact that her address was attractive enough, and of course she showed some kindness, she could not convince her. Health and health is too complicated to say, in fact, "If experts fail, experts will certainly be able to do it". And part of her story about it, of course, how she was invited, actually convinced us that she was begging us, in some way not to support her, because it was so heard: "I tell you that I am a non-swimmer, and you force me into this water." Of course, it is certainly in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that we will not be testing in this way and we are opposed to the appointment of ministers in this way and under such criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u184	Thank you. Any interest in explaining your voice in your personal name? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote on the secretary is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 23. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic is appointed Minister of Health. I congratulate the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on her appointment and wish her to perform her duties successfully. However, I ask her to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u185	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I deeply thank you for this trust, and I promise that this year I will do what is in my power. Thank you very much! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u186	As regards this item of the agenda, the National Assembly also notes: Because it is a mag. Mr Andre Bručan has ceased to serve as Minister of Health and is now serving as a Member of Parliament in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. In accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, she ceases to serve as Mrs Polonca Dobrajc, a Member of Parliament, who has performed her duties instead of a Member of Mags. Andre Bručan at the time he served as Minister. Mrs Polonci Dobrajc, I thank you for the quality work done by the Member. [[Let's hear it.]] I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and interrupt the meeting of the assembly to arrange the voting apparatus. The assembly will continue at 8:00, that's 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u187	Dear Members and Members! Since there are small problems with the voting apparatus, which is not yet synchronized in relation to the exchange in the parliamentary bench, the meeting will continue or the vote will take place at 8.15 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Gentlemen mag. I welcome Andre Bručano very much in our midst and wish him a successful and satisfying job. However, unfortunately, I must report that the technical services have failed to arrange for electronics to detect his card. For this reason, I propose that we continue to vote. We all vote in a consistent electronic manner, but he will vote by raising his hand and then we will add up or subtract his voice. Otherwise, of course, we will have to make a full vote by raising our deadlines, which makes little sense. So, once again, Mr. Bručan, you will vote by raising your hand when you say "yes". I'll count your vote. Thanks for understanding. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Guarantee Act of the Republic of Slovenia for commitments from a loan leased by the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, a public fund, to the European Investment Bank to finance projects to improve energy efficiency. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted by the labour force in the third reading of the amendments, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 72 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour because Mr Bručan raised his hand to 13. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, must be voted on by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mr Kramberger, you're out, Cyril Testen. Here you are, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of re-confirming the law, especially because it is a problematic identification. As a result, the definition of ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company could be delayed indefinitely, but the question of whether the insurance company will sell these shares, which it will sell from this moment forward if the law is passed, is also a right to sell. We are concerned about the fact that, as far as KAD will have a better investment option, it is even right to sell shares in such a case, because it will thus last more for the pension fund. We will confirm this law once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u190	Thank you. Anyone in their personal name? Check-in is on. Mrs. Pechanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u191	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I will not support this marriage for two reasons. One reason why the veto in the State Council has been adopted is that we are essentially incapacitated by the 750 000 insurers who contributed to the fact that this insurance company has become, we can say, as is often heard, the family silver of our country and, on the other hand, because of the proposal that we have unanimously agreed to, within the framework of the Partnership for Development, we can say that the funds that are technically difficult to share among the insurers will be invested in the CAD or ownership of the CAD and in the CAD, then we can also keep them, by not having the resources of the CAD at its disposal, must not be alienated, in particular so that we can take the time and carefully consider how we can ensure that the current and future pensioners in our country will also have from the resources of the Insurance Office of Triglav, and other companies owned by Slovenia, and managed by Kad, who have secured all the assets of which are owned by the State, which are owned by the State, and which are owned by which are owned by the State. I think it is a shame that the coalition is in no way able to understand that it works in harm's way and against the interests of Slovenian pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I have completely different arguments for supporting this law, and these are the following. Most of the shares of Triglav Insurance that Kad has paid with money to Slovenian Compensation Society and of those there is nothing more to discuss whose they are and where they should go. If anyone found any solution to renegotiate these shares, then Kad would be the last person to pay them. The problem is somewhere else that KAD is run by the state and the ownership of KAD's assets has actually been transferred back to its own country, which I do not know how much it has contributed to the pension fund so far, which, of course, is not quite so. The problem is that KAD's assets are being mismanaged. Some 10 billion were lost to Mercator's stock sale too early, and that's the problem. We advocate that When better to manage and that this would indeed be a reserve of pension and disability insurance and that the pension insurance institution should appear as a manager, through the invitation to tender, be given capable managers and thus deal with this property, which the State has mismanaged in our firm belief. The fact that these stocks remain there as a long-term reserve is what we support, and that is why we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u195	When the veto of the State Council is refused, the phones will ring, and when, as in Mercator's case, he will be able to sell 34% of the stake to Insurance Officer Triglav, the first to come, it will probably be Alliances or anyone else. This law allows Kadu to have free access. Mr. Žnidaršič, it's the other way around. The previous version of the law limited the free availability, the current version of the law, different from the one that was coordinated in the partnership agreement, or what it is already called, but allows the sale of the third share of the Triglav Insurance Company in five days, as with Mercator. And Mr Toplak can give a gift to Mr Bavcar once again, 92 million euros. That is why it is wrong to take an average of 1,000 euros for the 750 thousand beneficiaries of the coalition and support it. This money should be allocated to the SPIZ, directly to the SPIZ, not to be managed by gentlemen, as it is done and as we have seen in the case of Kad. Therefore, I strongly recommend to Members and Members that we support this law. The representative of the State Council said today on the home work body that the State Council would use the remaining funds to prevent the misuse of the money of Slovenian insurers at the Triglav Insurance Company, for what will happen today if you do not reject the law, that is, the nationalisation of property.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u196	Thank you. Is there any interest in the explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm calling off the vote. My card didn't work. It's off there. Thank you. I'm re-opening the vote. We're voting on the law. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal for a decision on the discharge of two members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services and the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of two members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The draft decision was tabled by the SDS Group of Members for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you again. This vote, which will be carried out in a few moments, will remove the imbalance or achieve an agreed relationship in one of the supervisory commissions, from the supervisory bodies of the National Assembly, either by delay or by delay of two months. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Security and Intelligence Services should be adopted at the June session only to refresh matters a little, but at that time the vote was not carried out by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, which was then postponed from June to July. At that time, just on the day of the vote, the Social Democrats had a solemn academy, if you remember, and then President Pahor also announced that he would not run for President of the Republic. It was precisely because of this transfer of voting to the July session that both the Rules of Procedure and the Law were delayed, that was later moved during parliamentary holidays and it was not possible to establish working bodies at that time, as it was adopted with the Rules of Procedure, the Law and, as was finally agreed unanimously. So that we can make this change in this supervisory committee only at this meeting, because we can only make a change at the plenary meeting of the National Assembly. Therefore, all the indications we have heard so far are incorrect, just remember that there has been a postponement of one of the Commission's meetings to oversee the budget and other public finances, with the expectation that the coalition has not provided and has not been able to establish the relations that have been agreed and imposed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. These findings, as I said earlier, were inappropriate, as the coalition in the National Assembly did not interfere with the establishment of relations completely. The fact is, when the meeting was postponed, it was also the wrong way to force decisions in the National Assembly, and it was also trying, in some way, to create an atmosphere, as if the coalition in the National Assembly were suffocating the opposition. This is not the case, for all the consequences of such delays are exclusively in one of the opposition groups. I am also obliged to point out that some Members have made statements that work in these supervisory commissions will take place quite differently once the right relations are established. I think that all these observations that have been made, especially for the work of this commission, which we are correcting today, are unrealistic. The fact is that during this period, after the month of June, a number of things were said. One of the members of the Social Democrats has made a great spectacle with some statements, and the fact is that the statements that have been made in some way give rise to the idea that this spectacle will continue with the discussions and discussions of this Supervisory Commission and that matters will also change. And despite the fact that, as we saw on Monday, this same Member stated that there was no evidence of these statements he had made. None of these statements have been hindered, in fact, by any group of Members, but at least by the Member of Parliament. I strongly hope that the Commission will also be able to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the Commission, following a change in the composition of the opposition's majority, and that it will take decisions that will have a real basis in the documents or reports it will review. I hope that the proposal to change the composition of the working bodies will receive unanimous support this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u198	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of two members of the Commission for the supervision of the Information and Security Services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10, paragraph 2, of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, a decision will be taken if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Desire to explain your voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on discharge is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia The Group of Members and Members of the Parliament of the Social Democrats submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, proposing that Mr Miran Potrč, Member of the Parliament of the Social Democrats, be elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the candidates, Mr Sam Bevk, to explain the application. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u199	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected choir! It is a great honour and pleasure for me to present, on behalf of my fellow Members and colleagues from the Group of Social Democrats, the candidate Mr Miran Potrč, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Today it will also turn out or a beautiful Slovenian river to "go to third" hold. In view of the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups immediately after the submission of our candidacy, I am almost 100% certain of this. Any other outcome would show that these promises were unworthy. Our proposal is also justified by the provision of Article 20, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, whereby the National Assembly of one Vice-President or Vice-President of the largest opposition parliamentary group. Twice this provision of our little constitution in the National Assembly was unfortunately not respected. However, I hope that this time the outcome of the vote will be different. Miran Potrč is a graduate lawyer, head of the Social Democrats Group and an experienced Member for many years. In 1990 he was elected to the Social Political Assembly of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the first multilateral elections. Since 1992, four more times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, always on the list of Social Democrats or its political predecessors. From May 1990 to today, he was the leader of the parliamentary group, two coalition mandates and three opposition mandates. During all this time, he has also participated in the College of the President of the National Assembly, in addition to his membership in the working bodies, and has extensive experience in parliamentary work. Miran Potrč was president of the SRS Assembly from 1986 to 1990, and from 7 March 1990 he was the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, as with the 91st constitutional amendment under the title of the State, the line was the word "socialist". During this time, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia prepared and adopted amendments to the Slovenian Constitution and laws on elections and political parties, which allowed the first multilateral, democratic elections to be held. It has exercised the constitutional right of the Slovenian people to self-determination, including the right to secession and reunification and some other principles, which have contributed to the preparations for the implementation of plebiscite and independence. Miran Potrč was one of the co-authors and co-signatories of the signed agreement signed on 6 November 1990 by all representatives of political parties and parliamentary groups on joint participation in the plebiscite for independent and independent Slovenia, where such political unity contributed to the vote of 88.5% of all electoral beneficiaries for independence. As Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Head of the Parliamentary Group and the Member actively participated in the drafting of all documents adopted by the Assembly for independence, in particular by the Law on plebiscite of 6 December 1990, the Resolution on the Proposal for an Agreement between the SFRJ of 22.2.1991 and the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia of 25.6.1991. He was Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission, who under the chairmanship of Prof. Dr. Francet Bučar prepared the first Constitution of the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia, and also in all subsequent mandates, its active member. During the 1992-1995 term, the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, who, following the first elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, prepared for the adoption of the first Rules of Procedure of the Democratic Slovenian Parliament, the National Assembly, adopted in July 1993, after which the National Assembly acted for a period of nine years until the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure in April 2002. All his tasks have been performed so far by Miran Ptrč, a highly professional, conscientious, honest and honest. For 11 years, I have been working with my colleague, Mirano Ptrče, at the National Assembly, and I can say for sure that it belongs to the very top of the best knowledgeers of Slovenian legislation. Any marriage proposal that comes to the National Assembly shall be thoroughly re-examined or read at least conscientiously. Many times at the meetings of the Group of Members, we are surprised by the excellent knowledge of a problem for which it is not directly in charge. His consistent attitude toward work and mission is a model that is not easy to achieve. The work of Mriran Potrč, who has also been acting as a Member for the past three years, a member of the College of the President of the National Assembly and as Head of the Group of Social Democrats in this call of the National Assembly, is therefore known to all Members and Members. On this basis, honourable colleagues and colleagues will be able to make conscious decisions for or against his election as Vice-President of the National Assembly. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced of the work we have done so far, the rich work experience, the correct and consistent attitude towards the tasks he has performed and also the personal characteristics of Mirana Potrča justify our candidacy and his election to the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Školč will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Group of the Liberal Democracy, we will support Potrč as the candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. We will support him because he was elected on the list of Social Democrats, and that list only received eight votes in the elections to the National Assembly. We'll support him. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Ten. [[...]] Ten, and ten? Nothing bad, one thing and the other, as colleague Puksic says, is too small for her to represent herself in public as the largest parliamentary opposition party. The largest parliamentary opposition party is still based on the electoral outcome of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This seems necessary to me for a simple reason, because certain things are getting very mixed up and there is confusion, both in public and in Parliament. We will also support it because we have reached an agreement in the opposition parties, it is said, our group with all those groups that have been crossed over by Members who took part in the elections on our list. At the same time, we would like to acknowledge that the SD Group is large and that it is large because it has been crossed by four LDS Members. If the four LDS Members did not agree with and step out of Slovenian policy, there is a big question where would those who are alternate Members enter in such a case. So much as a traveler. Otherwise, we also want to work with the new Vice-President on the right footing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and candidate, Mr Miran Potrč! If the Social Democrats' Group, following the restructuring of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, has become the largest opposition parliamentary group, then, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, it shall belong to one Vice-President of the National Assembly. Assuming that the arrival of the Member and the three Members from the LDS Club is not in breach of Article 29, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, this is, indeed, the largest opposition parliamentary group and the condition laid down in Article 20, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is fulfilled. The question of compliance with the first paragraph of Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly is referred to the Rules of Procedure Commission. Let me just read it: "The Members who have been elected by the same names and Members who are members of the same parliamentary party have the right to establish only one parliamentary group. The Member may be a member of the parliamentary group of the same name list on which he has been elected or of the parliamentary group of the party of which he is a member." We continued the debate on the candidate in the New Slovenia Group with the assumption that it is sufficient for all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which refer to the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly and to the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Opposition. We also note that we are satisfied with our request or our condition to fulfil it, according to ours, the candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Opposition, namely that he was elected as a candidate for Member in October 2004 even on the United List of Social Democrats. This is what we have pointed out with the two previous candidates. I am talking about the necessary conditions for a decision, which, of course, are not sufficient conditions for the decisions taken. Mr Miran Potč is a working, very active Member through his long political career. The candidate has an outstanding political record to the extent. The Novi Slovenije delegation group has reviewed its candidacy several times, last of all, and analysed its work in the previous and current political system. Despite the secret vote, I would like to make a loud statement to our decision. The New Slovenia Group has decided that the candidate, Mr Miran, cannot be trusted by the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we will tell Mr Miran Potrč that, we will support his candidacy. Not because it's written in one of the articles in our little constitution in the Rules of Procedure for simple reasons. Mr Miran Potrč is one of the most working people in this House. We can all confirm that. We see him from morning to evening. Mr Miran Potrč has long-standing parliamentary and political experience. Mr. Miran Potč went through many small constitutions and read them well. He is the man whose views are to the best extent possible. He is a patient person, we can say this in particular in the Slovenian National Party, with which he has quite a bit of experience. Many times we disagreed, but we liked his attitude. A peaceful Potrč will be at a time when this National Assembly needs all people, both Mr President of the National Assembly and both Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, who have worked a little more these months, we need a man who knows a little constitution, who is a working man, who is well-informed and who, not least, however we all turn around, has a character. His jacket may have become slightly more icy, but he still has the same color as others. I hope I can congratulate you, Miran.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u207	Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group will support Mr Miran Potrč's candidacy for the Vice-President of the National Assembly for a simple reason without any problems, because we stand in the position that the mandate given to the biggest opposition party is no matter how it was created, its mandate and that it chooses and offers the candidate. We believe that it is a matter of the National Assembly to support such a candidacy and from this point of view we have also supported all the previous candidates offered by this parliamentary group. In doing so, I would like to say that it seems to me, for example, that the non-support of the proposed Vice-President by a parliamentary group which has a mandate and is supposed to be similar to the Rules and Rules in force in this House, that at the new start of the National Assembly the elected Members and their mandates should not be confirmed. This is something similar, and from this point of view, we do not actually support such works and think they are not good. They proposed a candidate, they have a mandate, they have to get one. However, I would like to say that it is particularly pleasant to support a candidate such as Mr Miran Potrč. You've all said or said good things about him. He has another quality that many of us do not have, that he is calm enough to present his views and is completely indisputable when they are different from others, and these are qualities that are worthy of gold and in this sense we will like to support him as Vice-President, we believe he will lead well, that he will represent his parliamentary group and the work that must be done by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and I think he will be elected without problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We have a third attempt to complete the missing leadership post in the National Assembly, which is due to the defection of Members from the largest opposition parliamentary group to the other parliamentary groups. This has changed the relationship in the National Assembly, changed the size of some parliamentary groups, and the role of Vice-President of the National Assembly is not automatically transferable and therefore these proposals need to be re-voted. It should be pointed out that the status of the largest parliamentary group The Social Democrats did not win the elections, but this was due to the transitions of Members or, more precisely, to the flight of Members. So far, the Social Democrats have proposed two candidates for election, but they have not received sufficient support. In doing so, I must point out that our Group of Members has both supported the previous votes and also to the third proposal before us, the Group of Members has not changed its position and will also support this candidate. Maybe somewhere else. However, I certainly hope that the proposal for other parliamentary groups has received sufficient support, because in the previous two proposals it has been shown that, even in the opposition where it would naturally be expected, this was not the case. And this also proves that secret voting also has some different legalities than public voting. Once again, however, the tolerance and visibility of the coalition will be shown, as after the vote the opposition will have two Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly or half of the leadership functions in the National Assembly, and this mandate is quite different from the previous mandates, because, if you recall, at the end of the previous term, the opposition had no Vice-President of the National Assembly, no leadership position in the National Assembly. I hope that Mr Potz will receive sufficient support in the secret ballot to do his work well and properly, because he has long-standing parliamentary experience for this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u210	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, fellow Members and Members. I will essentially continue where our leader of the Group has concluded and I will list three reasons why I cannot support Mr Potsch. But first of all, I very much agree with those who, and I will say this again and again, that the SD Group is not the largest parliamentary group, because it would be the choice of voters and voters, but because it is some way of defecting members of the LDS and I agree that in fact the biggest opposition party is still the LDS and, in my opinion, it will remain that way until the next elections. Now, just for a short time, three reasons, one of the reasons why Mr Potts cannot support is the strict opposition of his client and his personal process of denationalisation. He repeatedly reasoned this process with the Slovenian public, also wrote several times in newspapers, as if it were an ideological process. Therefore, of course, this procedure today after 16 years or how many years, when this compromise proposal has been adopted, has not yet been completed, and this has also resulted in large claims for compensation, and this, of course, awaits us in the future in accordance with Article 72 of this Act. I mean, I could talk about it a lot, but we all know what's been going on in this process in the past. The second thing that bothers me about Mr Ptræ is that I am already following his second mandate, with all that some of you have said in his favour, is strict opposition to everything that would mean some normalisation at the legislative level to that part of citizens and citizens who are faithful. Finally, to mention only the Law on Religious Freedom, which he strongly opposed, he also sent to the Constitutional Court, and we know what the Constitutional Court had decided then, and this has always always said to me, even as a member of one of the religious communities, he put himself in an unequal position and I do not agree with this work, which does not fall within the framework of the European Union and the third millennium. And third, Slovenia has not yet adopted legislation in the field of war laws after more than 60 years. We'd like to wrap this up. We have fought one of these laws, which is the Civil Victims of War Act, which would also give the part of the population that the partisan forces have caused him injustices and also mobilised into the German army, the same rights as the others. When, in coalition and within all political parties, we brought this matter together and then the bill was tabled, of course, it began to become an ideological problem again in the public eye and Mr Potrč bears a large part of the responsibility to do so. I could even mention it, but since it's already late in the hour, these are basically the three reasons why I say publicly and clearly here, what I have done several times in these seven years, since I've been in this National Assembly, that I can't even vote in secret and I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll back my buddy Pottsch on my own. I think we're gonna get a good vice president of this National Assembly. My memory reaches back to the time when he led this congregation in the former land. And it seems to me that, even though we were not at the same time part of the same political considerations and the same political options, that he did more than correctly in that place and that he belongs to the people who have put their efforts into having our country today. He's gone through enough sobriety, enough thinking that we've moved forward one step at a time. Since then, I have known him further in considerable part as a Member of this National Assembly, and I do not think that I could give him more compliments than my colleague Sok has just given him. All the points he's listed, I'm counting on him for good, but they're not the only ones, they're essentially more. And among us, we have a few people fortunately, it belongs to a narrower circle of those who can be principled and can also point out on their side that sometimes we are wrong when we try as a group without thinking about doing otherwise than it makes sense and as good for this country. I look forward to having such a vice-president who can do this in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture. [[He's quitting.]] As there are no more reported debates, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairpersons and by the four Members elected by the National Assembly. Members of the group have already forwarded me proposals for members of the panel leading the vote. These are: Franc Jazbec - SDS, Aurelio Juri - SD, Rudolf Moge - LDS, Martin Mikolič - NSI, I am also a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. We vote on the composition of the commission. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members, you will place the completed voice box in the voting box, which will be in the Chamber, on the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 9:20 p.m., until 9:30 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. So I interrupt this item on the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 9:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-11-SDZ4-Izredna-28.ana.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjourned session and with the adjournment of the 5.b item, this is the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 11 September 2007. 69 ballots were distributed, 69 votes cast, two votes invalid, 67 votes valid, 39 votes in favour, 28 votes against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28]] . On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Miran Potrč was not elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. As the proposed candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes, the running procedure and the voting procedure on the basis of the new proposal for a candidate shall be repeated on the basis of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for participating.
