ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Samo Bevk from 16.30 p.m., Matjaž Han, Ivan Jelen, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Milan Friday from 18:00 p.m. and Bojan Starman. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE QUALITY AND SECURITY OF HUMAN WEATHERS AND HEALTH CELLS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Andrey Bručan, Minister of Health, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The supply of human tissues and cells is to a lesser extent regulated by the Act on the Withdrawal and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment and by the Law on the Treatment of Infertility and Infertility Procedures with Biomedical Assistance. Both of these are from 2000. Directive 2004/23/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, which sets out quality and safety standards for the donation, acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, allocation and distribution of human tissues and cells, entered into force in 2006, sets out the European Community criteria for ensuring the quality and safety of human tissues and cells. It was therefore necessary to draw up a new law that would follow the requirements of that directive, which, inter alia, ensures that human tissues and cells are intended for human health in the European Community, in terms of quality and safety, comparable. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the law allows the production of tissues and cells only on the basis of voluntary and unpaid donations, which prevents trading in parts of the human body. The law implementing the Directive provides that in the field of tissue and cell procedures intended for treatment, it shall operate in a tissue and cell facility designated and authorised by the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices for the purpose of carrying out the activity. This will also carry out supervisory checks and control measures. All activities defined by the law will be carried out as a public health service, which will be carried out by public health institutions. The Act lists the activities and the domestic and foreign legal and natural persons who perform public service in health activities on the basis of a concession granted by the Minister of Health. These are activities of testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of tissues and cells. On the basis of the debate at the Committee of the National Health Council, three amendments have been drawn up which, according to the new decree, provide that the production of tissues and cells used for autologous treatment may be carried out by domestic and foreign legal and natural persons who carry out medical activities within or outside the public service. A special place in the law goes to Slovenia Transplant, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplants, which will perform tasks related to the register of organs and tissues. It will run a central information system for transplantation activities, including a register of activities, and will also carry out promotional activities and inform the public about the donation of tissues and cells. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljub Germić, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 21st session, the Committee of the National Health Council held a second reading of the draft law on the quality and safety of human tissues and cells intended for treatment submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure. The Committee was also attended by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Health Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the Association of Unemployed and Socially Integrated, the Slovenian Medical Society, Neocelica, d.o.o., the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine and the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transplantation of Organs and Tissues. A written opinion was submitted to the proposed law by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Health and the Commission for Social Activities of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In the opening presentation of the law, the applicant submitted the main solutions set out in the draft law relating to compliance with Directive 2004/23-EC of the European Parliament, which provides high quality standards and safety for the acquisition, testing, processing, storage, allocation and distribution of tissues and cells, as well as better conditions for the exchange of donated tissues and cells for patients receiving such treatment. The bill ensures that tissues and cells in the European Community are comparable regardless of the purpose of their use for quality and safety. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly drew attention to a number of nomological shortcomings when it comes to a literal copy of the provisions of the Directive, in which it is considered that Member States are left to lay down detailed rules. In the controversial debate that followed, the members of the Committee paid particular attention to the provisions of Articles 4, 6 and 13 of the draft law. The role and tasks of obtaining, testing, processing, preserving, storing, assigning tissues and cells were mainly problematic only through the public health service or the institution that obtained the licence under the concession. They considered that these tasks could also be performed by domestic and foreign natural persons registered for this activity, on the basis of permission from the Ministry of Health and not only on the basis of the grant of the concession. They felt that a private initiative should be encouraged. In addition, ensure that treatment with human tissues and cells is provided to each patient under the same conditions in the physician or institution that would be registered for this activity. The role of the Slovenian Transplant has also been problematic, which is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation regarding the exclusiveness of all promotional activities in this field. The Health Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. He also accepted his amendments. The amendments to the text of the law have been tabled by four coalition groups. This is: SDS, NSI, SLS and DesUS. They tabled amendments to Article 27 of the total 41 articles. However, 236 amendments were accepted. With the adoption of the amendments to the Committee, amendments to Articles 1, 21, 22 and 28 have become irrelevant. The Health Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 13, 16, 18, 21 and 22 and 28. After the discussion on the articles of the bill and on the debate and vote on the amendments and amendments tabled by the Health Committee, the Health Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee established the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of this report and which is under consideration in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Good day to you. The proposal for a Law on the Quality and Safety of Human tissues and cells intended for treatment will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats, as, following the provision of the proposal, the solutions set out in this proposal relate to compliance with the Directive of the European Union, which ensures high quality standards and, in particular, safety in the acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, allocation and distribution of human tissues and cells and, of course, comparability with other arrangements in Europe. Medical science goes a long way. It is appropriate that by adopting a law governing the transplantation of tissues and cells in a quality, safe and healthy way, we also allow them to do so. This method of treatment increases the range of treatments for previously untreated diseases. In all of this, of course, it is not possible to ignore the fact that the law allows the production of tissues and cells only on the basis of voluntary and unpaid donations and thus prevents trading in parts of the human body. There may also need to be an opinion on the controversy that this proposal restricts or prevents a private initiative. In the Group of Social Democrats, we attach these to those who favour the public interest over the private. At the meeting of the working body, it has been ensured several times that this law restricts private interest only in withdrawal and that, like the directive, it does not go into the field of treatment. It therefore ends at the point of distribution. Despite our agreement on the need to regulate this very difficult area, we reiterate the practice that we are witnessing in this National Assembly. I would like to draw attention to the quality of the laws we receive from the Government in Parliament. If we scrutinise the complementary bill, we can see that it has 41 articles. Of these, 30 were amended in the second reading. So only 26.8% remained unchanged. Well, that's what the government suggested. In doing so, I should just add that, with the preparation of the law at the Ministry, they did not hurry up, and this cannot be the reason for the statistics mentioned above.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The area of human tissues and cells for treatment is a sensitive area. It is therefore still necessary to be aware of the achievement of high quality and safety standards for the acquisition, testing, processing, storage, allocation and distribution of tissues and cells, as well as the achievement of better conditions for the exchange of donated tissues and cells for patients participating in such treatment. The present law is intended to deal with compliance with the EU Directive, which provides high quality standards and, as such, to ensure that tissues and cells within the European Community are comparable regardless of the purpose of their use, in terms of quality and safety. Therefore, the law establishes a system of quality and safety in the use of tissues and cells. Legal solutions are expected to contribute to a wide range of treatment options for previously untreated diseases. The law follows the directive when it comes to a literal copy of the Directives. At the same time, the Ministry of Health has again passed the examination when it comes to regulating the situation when Member States are left to determine the detailed checks. Once again, we have witnessed conflicts between individual interests that the Ministry of Health has failed to put into law in due time, responsibility and protection of patients. Therefore, the provisions of Articles 4, 6 and 13 of the Law were already highlighted at the meeting of the home working body in a controversial debate. These articles, as well as the amendments tabled by the coalition members and the SNS Task Force, seek to resolve the already problematic role and tasks of obtaining, testing, processing, preserving, storing, assigning and distributing tissues and cells through two series through the public health service or institution and or through domestic and foreign natural persons registered for this activity. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia in the light of ensuring control, traceability, quality and safety in the use of tissues and cells for the treatment and prevention of disease, we support this proposal of the law. We regret, however, that the Ministry of Health has allowed certain key issues to be raised only in Parliament, as we will see it today, because more or less have been heard in the drafting of the law, and that the Ministry of Health has not prepared the text of the law in such a way as to answer the open questions that are: Will the law guarantee the realization of quality and safety in the use of human tissues and cells? Will adequate supervision be ensured? Thus, we can only hope that today's solutions will prove to be smart and not foolish and will ensure the safe and quality use of human tissues and cells for the treatment of one and the development of a promising, professional and scientific branch of medicine on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister and colleagues, including you Members and Members of Parliament! The fundamental principle of the law that we have before us today is to ensure, in particular, the quality and safety standards for giving, in obtaining, testing, processing, preserving, storing, assigning and distributing human tissues and cells, as set out in the Commission Directive, and thus affirms the proposal. It is true that tissue and cell transplantation is a rapidly developing area of medicine, which offers a wide range of treatment options for untreated diseases so far, but we are touching the edge and the question of where medicine will go when we desire everlasting youth. We support the objectives of the draft law, which establish a system of quality and safety in the use of tissues and cells for treatment in a way that also prevents the transmission of disease. Of course, we can expect revolutionary movements in the area of disease treatment in the future, but according to the New Slovenia Group this is not at all cost. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that in order to avoid unnecessary additional invasive interference with the human body, it is reasonable to bring the autologous treatment activity closer to patients and to allow this activity to a limited extent also by legal and natural persons when it is obtained by the competent agency under strictly defined criteria for this authorisation. This type of activity is all the more urgent and necessary for establishments that carry out tissue and cell production activities to obtain prior authorisation from the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices or the department that will be established within this Agency. However, these institutions must also be subject to strict supervision. In the New Slovenia Group, we therefore appeal to all those who will be given special control powers under this Act, in particular in the event that this activity is carried out outside State institutions, to ensure and exercise thorough control. The law provides for the supervision of private doctors and dentists. Of course, this is where the role of legislator ends. Effective review and supervision by authorised companies or authorised agencies that are able to control this activity is necessary. This should not in any way lead to the slightest suspicion that in patients with invasive diagnostic procedures without the patient’s written consent and without the patient’s knowledge, cells and tissues should be taken away. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the strict provisions in the law that the competent agency will exercise control, on the basis of a possible finding that the operator does not carry out its activities in accordance with the conditions laid down in the law, may withdraw the authorisation of the health service provider to carry out that activity. The withdrawal of a licence to carry out a medical activity in general is particularly regulated by the current Health Action Act and the Medical Services Act, which are fundamental laws for regulating health activities. In particular, the strict formal provisions of the laws must be in order to avoid the abuse of health service providers in practice. Subject to these legal provisions, it is not possible or very difficult for all those involved in the abuse process to do so. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law together with the amendments of four parliamentary groups and committees. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the law must primarily ensure control, traceability, quality and safety in the use of tissues and cells for the treatment and prevention of disease transmission. It is also necessary to follow the European Union Directive despite the fact that this area in Slovenia is relatively well regulated by the Act on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment. Health is the fundamental value and right of every individual. The human body is untouchable and therefore all the rules concerning intervention in the human body must be dealt with in a very comprehensive and careful manner. On such sensitive topics, the issue and problem of effective control is always raised. Where an activity which is controlled by the same institution, person or body. Such a sensitive area, which is very important to human health, such as the seizure and transplantation of parts of the human body, must be supervised by the State or the Ministry of Health, which is responsible to Parliament and thus directly to its electorates. It therefore seems important to us that the Agency will establish institutions and carry out supervisory checks that will be regular after the adoption of the proposal and their implementation will be transparent, and that the acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, allocation and distribution of tissues and cells will be carried out by appropriately qualified and experienced persons and that this activity will be carried out as a public service in public health institutions. It seems particularly important to us that such functioning of organs and cells must be completely free of charge as a humanitarian activity in order to prevent immoral shopping. The Directive of the European Union requires that, in the field of tissue and cell procedures for treatment, tissue and cell establishments which will be authorised to carry out the activities laid down by law operate and that the State designate a body responsible for the implementation of the law. The Parliamentary Group understands that the draft law therefore provides for the establishment of an organisational unit for the functioning of tissue and cell facilities within the framework of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which, as an authorised authority, will be responsible for the implementation of the law on the quality and safety of the supply of tissues and cells for treatment. The Agency will appoint tissue and cell establishments to carry out activities in the field of law and to grant them authorisation for these activities, without which these institutions will not be allowed to carry out any of the activities laid down by law. The establishment for tissues and cells is a public health institution or unit of a hospital or other legal entity where processing, preservation, storage, allocation or distribution of tissues and cells is carried out. But we can also get them and test them. However, an exception to this requirement is provided for in the law in the case of skin, bone, veins and cornea transplantation activities, which may also be carried out by domestic or foreign legal and natural persons who carry out public health services on the basis of a concession granted by the Minister of Health. A special task, possibly following the model of the Red Cross for blood donors, is intended in the draft law for the Transplant of Slovenia, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation. In addition to the tasks set out in the Law on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment, it has tasks related to the register of tissue and cell establishments. It will run a central information system for transplantation activities and a register of activities to be carried out under this law. The Institute will also carry out promotional activities and public information to encourage the donation of tissues and cells, which, despite the needs, must not become a profitable trade. With the knowledge that such activity and the field must be precisely defined and ensured for quality control and monitoring, the law, together with amendments supplementing the provisions in this direction, will also be supported by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister with his co-worker and your distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The supply of human tissues and cells for treatment is an extremely sensitive and rapidly evolving area. In addition to the remarkable progress it is making in the scientific and research field, it is also becoming a field that needs to be monitored again and again from an ethical point of view. Taking away cells and human tissues either to someone for their own treatment, or to someone else’s needs, means, in addition to the great hope of healing, the possibility of great profits, trading, reselling, and so on, abuse. An extremely high level of protection and control of procedures is therefore needed. There will certainly also be a need for intensive monitoring of the situation and for extremely strict control over the action in this area, and for rapid and indirect adaptation of legislation to detect any morally and ethically inappropriate developments in practice. They follow this and try to properly regulate European rules as well as our Slovenian legislation. Nevertheless, on the side of the ministry and the profession there was a marked embarrassment and unanimity, which of course did not make it easier for us Members to think, because we are laymen and not experts. In particular, the question was raised: Can cells and tissues be obtained for treatment only within health institutions, within public institutions, or should other legal and natural persons do so? In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that maximum orderliness and security must be ensured in this area, including record-keeping, traceability and documentation. We therefore expect the proposer to take care of such solutions as will ensure and enable this. Perhaps a little conservativeness and a greater degree of restraint in this area do not really harm. In doing so, we believe that it is a suitable solution that distinguishes the production of cells and tissues for autologous use, i.e. the removal of cells and human tissues for their own use, and the use for other persons, as abuses are possible in another area. Therefore, we will only support amendments that also allow the acquisition of tissues and cells outside public health institutions, but only for the purposes of autologous treatment. So when a person gives cells only for their own needs. We believe that it is not yet appropriate for this area to be fully freed, since in the private sector only a profitable interest, abuse, reselling, purchase and sale of human tissues and cells in an open and probably over-regulated market could prevail, which is certainly not appropriate in this area. At the same time, we believe that absolute and full control and regulation must also be ensured in practice. If solutions are taken in terms of what I said when I present the opinion of our Group of Members, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that it was a completely technical law that should only translate the European Directive into Slovenian and that, according to our opinion, politics has nothing to do. Unfortunately, it has been enriched with "Slovenian supplements that give a monopoly to existing structures, specifically Slovenia Transplant". And specifically, the director and the lawyer of the Ministry of Health have amended the draft legislation written by experts in this field and organised it so that, of course, it is a monopoly day for a monopoly. The bill is written both with Slovenian supplements to inhibit development, according to the Slovenian National Party, to prevent a private initiative that is supposed to be a driver of development. It brings us back to the past, which we do not want anymore, because it allows only public institutions to carry out medical activities in this area, which is, of course, completely at odds with everything that we decided 15 years ago or more. At the same time, this bill expresses Slovenian emancipation. We will allow all that we do not allow our people to do to foreigners, as foreign legal persons in this kind of medicine will be able to do a lot of things with us. The Ministry of Health reserves that the concession will guarantee professionalism and transparency, which, of course, is a complete nonsense. Concession doesn't guarantee that under any circumstances. But this guarantees strict control over the performance of the works. And that's a fact. If there is no control, then only the award of concessions causes only the decline of Slovenian medicine. Evidence of our claim, according to the Slovenian National Party, is an article in the last newspaper Newsweek, where Slovenian health care is in 37th place. By comparison, Costa Rica is ahead of us. In the proposal for a law, there was a variety of nonsense, such as mixing cell therapy with the transplantation of dead donors. The administration is duplicating itself and creating additional bureaucracy needlessly. The non-economic spending of budgetary money is encouraged. Only certain limited activities in the area of cellular therapy are allocated to the public. But not, for example, the acquisition and allocation of cells and tissues. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this proposal destroys everything we have achieved so far in the field. It prevents the development of small enterprises, which are in the European Union, because we like to be in the European Union, mandatory partners for obtaining European funds. The bill was made with another clear excuse, namely to prevent abuse, theft and profit-making with cell transplant material. This, of course, is a complete nonsense. For this area is already legally covered by the applicable Law on organ transplantation. Abuse shall not be prevented by preventing private initiatives. Now they're speeding up. As this law suggests, abuse is promoted, for of course it encourages a patient to go to a doctor with a blue envelope because it will come first. The proposal for a law gives Slovenia a monopoly over the management of all databases, information in this field and also the promotion of activities, which Slovenia believes is another nonsense, since we already have the Personal Data Act, which specifies who can collect personal data at all. And why should the promotion not be carried out, for example, by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine? The bill prevents the work of bio-ethnic companies, unless they are registered in Austria, they will be able to work here. It will happen that foreign companies will open up activities in Slovenia and our doctors will be able to work peacefully with a foreigner, but they will not be allowed to have this activity themselves. In short, we have a lot more to say in the Slovenian National Party. We've made proposals to the amendments. And if these amendments are accepted, we will also support this law. If not, we are absolutely against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, the Minister-designate with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our Group of Members, we note that the proposed solutions may still be partially misplaced, uncoordinated or too narrowly set and that a number of issues to be considered are emerging. Nevertheless, we are convinced that the law must be adopted because the area needs to be put within the legal framework also for the sake of EU relevance. The fact that the use of cells and tissues for treatment in the world from a medical point of view for patients' treatment options is a remarkable development has also proved to be a promising activity. However, the removal of cells and tissues and their subsequent disposition also constitute a major intervention in the integrity of the individual, whether it is autologous or the further use of the material. So, on the one hand, we have an urgent need for this kind of treatment. On the other hand, there are ethically sensitive procedures that can quickly become the subject of abuse and trade. The purpose of regulating this area is to ensure, from a medical and legal point of view, a high level of protection and control over procedures and to ensure and facilitate the further development of these forms of treatment. All of this is in our common national interest regardless of whether public and private legal persons can appear in the exercise of activities. It is therefore essential to provide an appropriate control mechanism which will allow for an effective and safe way of carrying out all activities and the traceability of the whole process, namely the removal of cellular and tissue material until the specific recipient is finally used. The Directive, which requires harmonisation of national legislation, sets a high level of protection. At the same time, it allows an individual country to tighten this protection. Comparably, control of the area of tissue and cell treatment is exercised through the competent national authorities and is followed by our regulations. Only when an effective monitoring network is established that needs to be provided at national or public level can we also consider the possibility of integration into the private spheres, as it is ultimately necessary to take account in the field of autologous treatment, not only for the private physician, but also for the patient himself, much easier to carry out the whole treatment process in one place. We'll give the law support. The implementation practice will, however, show to which segments and to what extent it will be necessary to make additions over time or to define them in substance differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u20	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with fellow Members and honourable Members! At first glance, the Law on the Quality and Safety of Human tissues and cells intended for treatment gives the impression that this is a completely technical law which, in its content, summarises more or less the provisions of the European Directive. However, an in-depth examination of this content and, above all, of this area shows that this law covers significantly more and that this is not merely a technical law. Medicine today is one of those areas where many scientific or even revolutionary achievements can be said to be practical today. These areas certainly include the research and use of human cells for treatment. This area is leaping forward and represents for mankind the unfathomable possibility of new treatments for so far incurable diseases. This is the area where experts predict rapid development and progress, especially its everyday use. Nevertheless, there are still a number of dangers that could lead to the abuse of both ethical and moral values and, above all, human rights. It is for this reason that this area needs to be regulated as well as possible to prevent the abuse of this area, but that it still provides such frameworks, which then also provide the possibility of developing this area and, above all, the use in our patients. This bill incorporates in this area truly very high standards of quality and safety in the donation, acquisition, testing, processing, preservation, storage, allocation and distribution of human tissues and cells. Above all, it seems important to us that traceability is also ensured, which is extremely important. A number of experts in this area participated in the drafting of this law, but at the time of consideration of this law, some shortcomings were still demonstrated in the parliamentary procedure, which were also considered to be appropriate solutions. The Ministry of Health has taken into account all proposals for solutions that can improve the basic text of this law in the course of its expert debate on the Home Committee. We welcome such cooperation and appreciate that this has actually contributed to a really good text. That is how we now have before us a law that is practically fully coordinated, both with the professional public, with the existing legal provisions in force in Slovenia and Europe, and in particular with the provisions of the European Directive. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are pleased with this text and, of course, we will also support it, along with amendments that have also been adopted on the working body and have been tabled by coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 19 June 2007. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the two amendments, namely the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party and the amendments of the Groups of Ambassadors: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I am opening the possibility of applying for a debate on Article 4 and the two amendments. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In general, I can say to the law, given that this is the first amendment, that the government has embarked on this area in the right way. Finally, the European Union has adopted high standards concerning handling or handling of human tissues and cells. Therefore, I do not support amendments towards greater privatisation in this area. Why not? Because, in the first place, it must be stressed that manipulation with these sensitive authorities is of course very difficult and there is no complete security. In general, however, it is considered that such cases are more appropriate to regulate the public sector or the public sector, much less likely to be abused, although there is no complete security. If we arrange this in a way of privacy, private activity is at greater risk. A private initiative truly ensures greater cost-effectiveness and efficiency. But what is the priority in these areas? Is it efficiency and economy? No, it's not that. This is far behind, but first and foremost, security and broad accessibility for all citizens. That's the priority. However, in order to ensure cost-effectiveness and efficiency, we have a number of other areas in our reality, in the economic field, and I do not know where the privatisation has not yet taken place. And let's do it there, privatisation, but certainly not in this area. So, this law is prepared in the right direction because it ensures an adequate level of ethics, an appropriate way of preventing wrongs, inappropriate purchases, trafficking and abuse. Ethics is first placed here, so a conservative solution is appropriate. It is suitable and we should also be aware of this in Slovenia. So this is not just a technical law, although at first glance it seems. It's not because it has consequences for a wide range of dimensions. And they're not dimensions of economy, of efficiency. It would be difficult for the Slovenian public, a Slovenian man, to put fate into private hands in such a way, by leaving the private sector. Therefore, the arguments that other individuals from other countries will be able to work here and our citizens do not, of course not. If there is any such danger, if there is a risk, such regulations should be introduced to prevent it. As far as I have had the opportunity to familiarise myself with the content of this law, but I am certainly not a great expert in this area, I believe that it is regulated at the appropriate level. But it may happen that some area is not sufficiently regulated and can slip away from us. However, this cannot be fully addressed in advance, and practice will certainly also bring about this. However, I firmly believe that this issue has been raised in the mind of the regulator, the lawmaker. This is also evident from the preparation for this law, from the explanation and composition of this law or legal matter. So, I believe that the law itself regulates this sensitive issue in the right direction, with the right measures and the right tools. Of course, I do not support this amendment, which makes it possible to privatise, as well as the other amendments relating to the other articles, which are going in the same direction so as to ensure a greater scope of the private sector in this area. For privatisation, we have other areas for the larger private sector where we should speed up privatisation. Well, thank you very much, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, if I may, you said we have two amendments to Article 4, I think there are three. Two of these are amendments of the Slovenian National Party. This is the first correction, please check. That's right, isn't it? Secondly, my dear fellow, I must say that we are absolutely convinced that this is a completely technical law. This is a translation of the European Directive. You can ask around and maybe you'll give me some time. And to return to the amendment to Article 4, the first amendment and the second, of course. I'll be very specific. The amendment to Article 4 in point 2 shall be amended to read "the donor centre is a public institution or unit of this institution that carries out tissue and cell extraction activities for transplant treatment" by reading "the donor centre is a health establishment or unit of this institution or legal and natural persons who carry out tissue and cell extraction activities for transplant treatment". The explanation is very clear. Autologous therapy requires tissue and cell removal. They can also be performed outside public institutions in private clinics or dental offices. And the second amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party to Article 4 to release the word "public" before the word "medical institution or unit of the hospital" in the 21st paragraph. The explanation is given. I'm not going to read it, and I'm not going to waste any time. We are convinced that both amendments are justified. I do not understand, however, the word of Mr Drobnik, a respected colleague, that he opposes this amendment, as I have understood it. However, if they are identical because it says that if the amendment to Article 4 tabled by the Slovenian National Party is accepted, the amendment tabled by the Coalition will be irrelevant. So that they oppose an amendment that is identical to theirs is, of course, complete illogicality. This is confirmed, my fellow Member, by the fact that this is only a matter of, this is what I said in the introduction, the political involvement in a fully technical law or political involvement in the translation of the European Directive. And that was proof. But we can read it in a magnetogram. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendments? I'm reopening the application. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would just like to draw attention to what I am already doing in the context of the presentation of the opinion of the Group. I regret that, of course, in these points, the law in the proposal was incomplete. Why? Because it gives a great sense of uncertainty and ignorance to the proposer how to regulate this area in Slovenia in order to meet three key objectives: quality, safety and control. Of course, changing the key content of the law means that this solution was previously not properly designed. I would point here to the fact that in the basic law we had the definition of the donor centre in one way. Now with the amendments, we're turning it into a different way. I would also like to draw attention here to the essential distinction between the two amendments to the two SNS and the coalition's proposals, and given the argument that the second amendment is no, there is no need for a vote if it is adopted first. But the second amendment has an essential difference to be really alert to. Because we have two species, allogeneic and autologous uses of tissues and cells. The amendment of the coalition says that it is possible for the donor centre to be complemented by, if I may say so, only for the area of autologous use in such a way that there is no doubt. Of course, the question that arises to me in this regard is: Why did not the proposer clarify this issue during the drafting phase of this law? Because if he didn't clear it up at the time, Is there a clear question to me whether full quality control is ensured in the case of such use of tissues and cells? A fundamental question is now being asked here. Because we're going to hit the same content at Article 6, which we're going to change twice. Once on the committee and once today with an additional amendment to Article 6. Of course, here is the fear of whether then Members prefer a conservative approach to this area, because the proposaler does not guarantee that the use of tissues and cells will be controlled, prevented from any abuse and exploitation of those who will deal with it. I think that, of course, the proposaler here should clearly define how the law provides for quality, security and control by introducing this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State with his co-workers. This amendment to this Article is practically one of those significant improvements that have contributed to a significant increase in the use of this area mainly in the field of treatment in the basic text. I agree that perhaps the drafter could have had such a solution in the text itself when he prepared it. However, as we have seen, this is an extremely sensitive area. It is necessary to provide or monitor security, traceability and many other options or threats that may also be the target of such or other abuses in this area. However, through a discussion on the home working committee, where it had the opportunity to discuss to a large extent also a profession which has a lot of experience in this area, which it has also presented, in fact, the text contained in the amendment to Article 4 has been formulated, in particular by coalition parties. That is why we support these amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in the coalition. For this amendment practically expands the space a little bit, but it still contains so much security or regulations that will prevent abuse. Unfortunately, this amendment, proposed by the Slovenian National Party, does not exist. There is actually a need to separate the autologous treatment method. It means that one and the same person that takes cells away then also those cells that were then developed into tissue are returned. It means that the thing about this amendment is simplified. However, there will still be the possibility of such control as this area needs. We've already heard in the debate today that this is about privatisation. I don't share that opinion myself, that view. For as we have already said, this is a free donation of tissues and cells, and these services will then be settled from the health insurance company. Of course, there is an opportunity here for private initiatives to be able to do research and to carry out research only in this area. As far as control is concerned. Monitoring is more or less always possible only in the way that precise rules are laid down, that there are precisely defined institutions or bodies that will exercise control. Here I see no difference that control could be greater in a public institution compared to a private clinic or a private one. Here the Agency will have the real responsibility, this task and also the opportunity to set high criteria for the granting of licences or authorisations to carry out this activity, and in particular to ensure that this activity is also monitored and monitored. So I don't see any difference here. And, as I have already mentioned, the amendment to this article substantially amends this law and we will also support it as such, namely the amendment tabled by the four coalition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I think it's right for us to talk about this and clear things up. First of all, what the distinguished colleague of the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia said. That it's a big kick to write that two amendments are being ruled out, even though they are very different in content, they're fundamentally different. Another time. However, with regard to the amendment to Article 4, I am interested in something, and my fellow Members and colleagues, let us pour some pure wine once. On the one hand, I can speak as well, I am going to blend in because it is related to the amendment to Article 4. As mayor, I am fighting at the very request of this government, which wants to privatize, gives an opportunity, because it is fair and on the one hand, an opportunity in public health for private people. We passed the Law on Public Private Partnership. We are talking about building hospitals through a public private partnership, talking about granting concessions to meet the needs of patients. On the one hand, this Government absolutely supports and I agree, privacy. But when we get to this marriage, all of a sudden this privacy is fun-fun, fear and trembling. And a colleague comes along and says, "Yeah, what, are you going to trade with human organs now? Please don't make a fool out of us. We speak or speak contrary to ourselves. If we go into privacy, if we give it a chance to develop, let us give it to everyone, if not, without double criteria. That's a fact. You're looking for double standards. In this case, there is only one, only one, and this is adapted in the translation of the technical, purely technical part of the European Union. A completely different picture as a basic criterion in the direction of public health, which I reiterate, I support. Right, health care, unless it works in public health, has to give concessions, private care, in order for health care to develop, is just the way it is in life. But let's have the same vats. You know, it's a meter. The meter is the same for everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Not like that, like that. And the only thing we demand in this amendment is that this meter is the same for everyone and not to pretend on the one hand like that, on the other hand. No one's trading. Unfortunately, those who are already trading with human organs are, unfortunately, already trading in one way or another. And even those who have a concession and will be a holy cow will do the same. With or without knowledge. It depends on the honesty of man and his relationship. But let's have the same criteria for everyone. Please, let's be honest with people, let's be honest with ourselves. Or, say, in public health, we only have public health. We don't have concessions, we don't have private health. We don't let him go anywhere or anywhere. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we can't. And once again, please, I may be, I don't know, I didn't mean any harm to your esteemed colleague, Petty Officer. But the funny thing is, the two amendments are completely different. But in the text, they're contentually excluding if the first one is adopted, the second one won't be accepted. But they're completely different. It's just a kick that needs to be taken into account and repaired for the second time, without us arguing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you. And also Mr. Marusich's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u32	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Perhaps a brief comment on some of the statements that have been or have been mentioned why this amendment is needed. The debate on the Committee is very commendable. By incorporating the profession, it has opened up certain points which, according to my amendment, are largely resolved by the coalition's proposal. What we need to take into account in the functioning of the healthcare service is what is in the public health service. In a sense, the Minister granted concessions to these and those outside the public health service but still operate with appropriate registration. In the first proposal, we considered that it would be necessary to allow all others to operate within the public network and thus be subject to the supervision of the Ministry. We believe that the current solution, where the whole issue, which has also been opened today, is the granting of licences, quality control and safety, is implemented and led by this Act by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Technical Devices. We believe that this is a step forward, in fact with the controls we have so far, it will extend control to all those who do not operate within the public health network. This means that they do not have a concession with the Health Insurance Office, but also carry out a specific health activity. In this area, which is very sensitive, the Agency will exercise control. Of course, for certain restricted areas. And here the law essentially legalizes what has already been done in Slovenia for a particular area, that is, for an autologous treatment method also allows those who are not in the public health service to implement this part of the program. The remaining part, however, is so sensitive that it must only be left to a designated accredited institution. Therefore, I believe that the amendment proposed by the coalition actually upgrades and eliminates these fears. There will be a substantial improvement in the security and quality of the Agency's control over all those who will operate in this limited part of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 4 and the amendments? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary group of the Slovenian National Party. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thanks again for saying that. Article 6 is actually an article which, by also adopting this amendment, the whole law or the whole text of this Act substantially amends or allows for the possibility that autologous treatment can be carried out virtually by institutions other than public health institutions. This text of this amendment was also practically the result of a really long professional discussion on the home working body. Here again the Ministry has taken into account all those professional arguments and has listened to them, which, of course, we are also grateful that the section's opinion here has fully respected and, of course, also supported such an amendment tabled by the coalition. We will, of course, also support this amendment, because, as I have already mentioned, Article 4 and this Article are those who are practically improving this law significantly. They also make it more useful and, above all, they still provide a sufficient level of security in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u36	I hope that at least this part is actually coordinated as it says here. The amendment of the Slovenian National Party shall be identical to point 2. There are several verbal differences to the second point of Article 6 and it is said that, irrespective of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the activity of testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of tissues and cells may be carried out by domestic and foreign natural persons who are registered to carry out health activities. That's a difference. To give an explanation. The Ministry of Health must also grant permission to carry out health activities. It does not make sense that all activities in the field of tissue and cell treatment are subject to concession. At least in this case, I think the intention of the amendment is confirmed both by the coalition parties and by our side. So I don't see any problems in deciding later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Germich, please. Because you raised your hand yourself, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to believe, Mr Secretary of State, that you have your reasons and that you are convincing in this. I'm afraid I can't follow your persuasiveness, and I'm starting to have a series of doubts. Why do I have a series of doubts? Because this second paragraph is being changed, however it falls. I'm sorry, we're politicians. You're an expert. You had to change your mind about the story. We have come to the committee and we have substantially changed the article in the second paragraph, where we wrote that the testing activity is, I apologize where the transplant activity is, so we are talking about the verb transplantation of bones, skin, veins and corneas, carried out by domestic, foreign persons performing public service on the basis of concession. So we're not talking, so we're talking transplant. Is that a lapsus, a mistake? I don't know, but as far as I'm concerned, it's a completely different content that we're writing in the amendment, where we're talking about that they can do testing, processing, etc. In accordance with the directive, we write down and still hold a public service on the basis of concessions. So still. So let's change the activity, what, and keep it in some way. And then the ministry didn't talk about that this is now a problem, that it's a public service, and that the problem is in concessions. Now we get to the table of the amendment, but it tells us that for an autologous treatment method we also allow acquisition. So also acquisition, which in the second amendment, the amendment within the committee was not a speech and it was clearly said that acquisition, yes, that is not. And then the ministry didn't express any concern, and it would say a ha, and getting autologous cells is a thing that we can leave to the market. And here we have a dilemma as to whether the Ministry knows what it's doing. Because if everything is acceptable in a very short time or substantially different in terms of the proposal, then I ask myself: How was the profession cleared in the preparation of this law? For in this second paragraph we are now talking about a substantially different content, that is, the third time. For the first time in law, for the second time the amendment adopted by the Committee and for the third time when we talk about the fact that we now allow the activity of tissue production for autologous treatment. Of course, there are concerns here that you are not convinced in the argument that there is no longer a need for public service and no need for concessions. So we're making an exception. For this article bears the title of control over the supply of tissues and cells. So control, a key element of what's going to happen in this area. And if we allow such radical changes at this point in a very short time, at least in my opinion, as far as I have been able to consult, it is a fear that this will not work. I agree with my colleague Grill that it is not so important whether it is public or private, because if supervision works, it must work both in private and in public. But if we do this on average, of course, it seems questionable whether control will work at all. And the key element here is safety, quality. Any possibility of abuse must be prevented. And if we allow such salads here in this area, then by the Ministry you give a sense of uncertainty, ignorance and not sufficiently clear content in the stage when you were preparing this law. For this area does not directly interfere with the translation of the directive, but interferes with the regulation of the domestic situation. And just as you are in a wide range of areas, if I only remember the Drug Law, we have also been hunting at the adoption stage of the law in a way that we have introduced the entire chapters in order to regulate this area, while today you are saying that control will be part of the Agency's Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices service, so part of this agency will be responsible for this and that this will ensure full control over the non-abuse. I'm afraid, Ministry officials, you're not very convincing about this. Of course, I wish on behalf of all those who will, in any way or in any way, be involved in the treatment of tissues and cells so that no abuse is allowed. Therefore, in your efforts to do so, I would like the amendments proposed by the coalition to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Marušič, would you like to answer the questions raised? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Let me repeat what I discussed in the debate on Article 4. Whether your fears are justified or not, of course, I cannot answer today. But I'm confident that the future will show that we're right. By law, we legalize and introduce control over those areas that may have been partially out of control. As you know, I described earlier we have a public health service. In addition, we have certain operators who are private operators. Like dentists who are all known. There are 200 of them in Slovenia. These are, of course, in the stage of registering their activities, they apply to the Ministry, and later are left under the supervision of the Medical Chamber, in the case of doctors regarding professionalism. With this law, we want in this area, which has also been implemented today in these and also in some other doctors, dentists, experts in this field, but always in the field of autologous treatment, such as tissue removal, gums or teeth, or anything else, we want to introduce a national agency, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Technical Devices, with a department that will keep an eye on the whole of this activity and will be able to keep an eye on the area that operates in public health, i.e. on the basis of a concession awarded by the mayor or the minister or another part that does not operate in the field of concession. Our previous orientation. In the course of the debate, it proved that we could then consider that, in fact, part of the healthcare service today should stop this activity after the previous procedure or even act unlawfully. We have put ourselves in the role of a citizen. A citizen would then, if not left to do so, have to take the tissue to the public service. So it means to a medical home or a hospital. Later, I might even get this from someone who is outside the public network. We believe that in this way, when we introduce this activity by means of this change, we also, of course, introduce, in an autologous way, also those operating outside the public network, but with central control, authorisation, quality control, safety of this programme, we introduce into the system what the European Directive also requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thanks again for saying that. I'd start with this saying, "No marriage is so good that I can't be better." If that were not the case, we would not have practically three cases of each law in our parliamentary procedure. For the system allows us to look together through the hearing, both Members and the professional public, the government of solutions that would be the best. And it is in this law that we have been given many, including practical illustrations of what such a solution as we are adopting today can contribute to a better use of this area or this law in this very important area. I don't really see any reason or argument here for anything here to come to the Ministry, to translate this law with these amendments or to provide it with a completely different content. Because that's not true. This law or changes in practical matters simplifies these changes. Still, I repeat, it is the agency that will care and must take care of proper supervision. There is no dilemma here that any institution or private person can do this. This activity will only be possible for those to whom the Agency will grant this authorisation and will have to meet very high standards of both quality and safety. It means that if the Agency assesses and also grants permission to such or to a private or public institution, it will then also have an obligation to take care of appropriate controls at the same time. Finally, I would like to say once again that the Ministry of Health has only agreed to such an amendment to this Article and that it has in fact also agreed that this amendment has also been tabled and accepted in this context. For this is the right way to bring the law to its true utility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you. Just for a little while. I cannot stand by the fact, Mr Secretary of State, that you follow the directive, then how do I justify the text in the original that it is a skin transplant of veins and corneas replaced by a completely different content that we can or cannot agree with? But I only find out the fact. I would like to point out that, in one case, you did not follow the directive or the text that was written in the bill or the amendment that we are now going to adopt at the time of the amendment of this law. This is simple logic if we change the text of a certain article so substantially. Since this article speaks of control, this article is of course extremely important. For this reason, I cannot agree that such a radical change can mean that we have followed the provisions of the Directive in both cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you. Anybody else want some? No, no, no. Then, I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. Since they're applying a little, please, if anyone wants to discuss it, raise your hand. Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at 23.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LAW ON THE RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF COFFEE PRODUCTS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marusich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u46	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to quickly introduce the law or changes that have also been made in marriage. Thus, the Ministry of Health has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, which takes into account new knowledge of the harmfulness of secondhand smoking. It follows the framework convention of the World Health Organisation for Tobacco Control and takes into account the conclusions of the June 2005 European Union Conference of Ministers without Tobacco. The main objectives pursued by this law are to reduce people's exposure to the harmful effects of tobacco smoke and to limit access to minors by tobacco products. A key amendment concerns Article 16 of the existing Tobacco Product Restriction Act, which proposes the introduction of a complete ban on smoking in all closed workplaces and public spaces. The proposal for a general smoking ban law allows smoking only in special areas, namely, for smokers of certain settings and other accommodation providers, in nursing homes and prisons, in premises not intended for common use, where only smokers reside in them, in particular for smokers of certain premises of psychiatric hospitals and other health care providers of mental patients, and in premises intended exclusively for smoking, so-called smoking rooms. The drafter shall support all amendments adopted by the Committee of the National Health Council at its 21st meeting. In fact, amendments that are proposed exceptions to the ban on smoking in places where only drinking is served and intended only for smokers and places where performances in the field of stage art are performed were contrary to the basic objectives of the law. That's why we can't support them. With regard to the obligation to ensure compliance with the smoking ban, for which the proposed law provides for the responsibility of the owner, tenant or manager of the place where smoking is prohibited, it is necessary to clarify that this obligation of the owners, tenants or managers of the premises already exists in the current law. In any event, the owner, tenant or manager of the premises, which are not only guest houses, but also all other public and labour spaces, will be able to ensure such compliance with the prohibition in different ways. Like reporting a violation, refusing to serve, asking him to leave the place, and so forth. But only if proven guilty will he be responsible for the offence. Therefore, there is no reason to fear that the owners of the premises will be unduly responsible for smoking their guests, as shown by the latest statistics on criminal measures. Therefore, the bill does not support the proposal to pass a fine simply to drop the warning of a smoke-free offender. Another important change concerns smoking of young people. Limitation of access of tobacco products to minors under the Tobacco Control Framework Convention will be achieved by increasing the age limit from 15 to 18 years for both sellers and buyers of tobacco products. Therefore, it cannot be taken into account in any way that the age limit for tobacco sellers should be reduced. In accordance with the objectives of the law, it is also proposed that a change be introduced to the packaging of tobacco products, in addition to other health warnings, in addition to the previous warnings a telephone number to help with the withdrawal from smoking. This will enable smokers who want to quit smoking to quickly assist in separating and familiarising themselves with individual smoking programs. The telephone number and conditions for the operation of the service on this number will be determined by the Minister with a special act. With regard to the transitional period of work relating to the labelling of tobacco products or to the printing of a new warning and the telephone numbers for withdrawal from smoking. The proposer supports the amendment of the Committee to allow the resale of tobacco products which do not have a new warning one year after the deadline when manufacturers and importers are required to provide the printing of tobacco. Dear Members and Members! I propose that the National Assembly of the proposed amendments of the Health Committee be adopted as such action, following the experience of the countries that have already introduced it, also has positive economic effects while at the same time affecting the reduction of demand for tobacco products and the increased abandonment of smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u47	Havela. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljub Germić, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! At its 21st serious meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act concerning the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SNS Member, Mr Bogdan Barovic, and by the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members, as well as the LDS Club. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made specific comments to each article. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the representative of the proposer introduced the text of the proposed law, whose main objectives and principles are the full protection of employees in all occupational groups against exposure to the harmful effects of tobacco smoke in the workplaces and persons in public spaces, the reduction of access to tobacco products to minors and the harmonisation of the law with the provisions of the framework convention on tobacco control and, last but not least, the reduction of the demand for tobacco products and the reduction of smoking in particular among young people. A large part of the discussion followed by the opening presentation took place in connection with Article 6 of the bill in conjunction with Article 10. Some members of the Committee were of the opinion that, in the course of certain measures taken by the owner of the facility or the user, for example, warnings by the owner were not appropriate due to any breach of the legal provision to impose on the owner or user of the facility where smoking is prohibited. In particular, this is not appropriate in view of the high penalties provided for in Article 10 of the bill. The representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Guest Service Providers were particularly concerned. The contrary were representatives of the Institute for Health Protection who felt that there was a need to insist on more restrictive provisions of the law. The representatives of the applicant stressed that the owner of the facility has full responsibility for the enforcement of the smoking ban, with a range of possibilities available to ensure the implementation of the legal provisions. Some members of the Committee also felt that the bill must have as few compromise solutions as possible and that the legal provisions themselves must be clearly defined, which means that they will also be better supervised. In the light of the debate and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the proposals of the SDS, NSI and SLS, the Committee also adopted some of its amendments: amendment to Article 1, amendment to Article 2, Article 3, Article 9, Article 10 and Article 12. The Committee addressed the amendments of SNS Members, Bogdan Barovic, the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the LDS Member Club and did not accept any of the amendments submitted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. In view of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, a further proposal is prepared, which is also an integral part of the written report you have received and is also under consideration at this time in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Here you go! Mr Germič will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much and very much! So tobacco is 25% for fossils representing 75% of death, the second largest cause of death in the world. Responsible for the death of one of the ten adults in the world, which means 5 million deaths a year. Unfortunately, statistics show that some 650 million people will die as a result of smoking. Smoking is the fourth largest risk factor for disease in the world and the second largest risk factor for disease in the European region. European research has shown that 88% of Europeans are against smoking in all closed workplaces and public spaces. The ban on restaurants and bars already supports 77%. Many European and other countries have already introduced legislation prohibiting smoking in closed public and employment areas based on research and public opinion data. This is how the European Commission prepared the Green Paper "In Europe Without Tobacco Smoke". Policy options at EU level. In this way a broad public debate and consultation on the best way to promote around non-smoker smoke in the European Union have been launched. The book presents the health, economic and passive burdens of smoking, public support for smoking ban and measures taken so far at national and European level. Passive smoking, which increases the risk of lung cancer in non-smokers for good 20s and heart disease for good 25%, is a widespread cause of death and disease in the EU. However, it is a fact that they can also be prevented by appropriate measures. However, since smoking in public premises is regulated by legislation, Slovenia has also made changes that will contribute to the protection of non-voluntary smoke smokers by legal measures. The changes introduced by today's law entail a complete ban on smoking in all closed workplaces and public spaces and an increase in the age limit for the purchase of tobacco products. Slovenia is also bound by the World Health Organisation's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which has also been ratified by Slovenia. In the LDS, we support the proposaler's intention that everyone has, in accordance with the right to health, the right to clean, to health of clean air in closed spaces, as set out in the World Health Organisation Convention and the intention to reduce the proportion of passive smoking in this way. In line with our original intention, we have submitted proposals for amendments to the staff's health, which have also been attached to the representatives of the Association of Guest Service Providers initiative, which, with proposals, sought to highlight additional options for an appropriate solution to the problem under consideration. We have therefore tried to propose that the definition of the conditions for smokers in the legal text be deleted from the prohibition of drinking which smokers would like to bring to the smoking room themselves, and that time be set for certain more detailed conditions to be met by the smoker. This means that, when the law is in force, the conditions for the regulation of smoking plants will not yet be known. However, restrictions will already be fully enforced. We have also proposed that the owner, manager or tenant of the restaurant cannot assume the authority and responsibility for the conduct of individuals and their possible non-compliance with legal prohibitions. However, it may alert the offender to such violations and invite him to cease the infringement. In our view, all proposed solutions are acceptable and compatible with the objectives of the law, taking into account health, labour and economic aspects in limiting the use of tobacco products. However, they were voted on the committee. In support of the objectives of the law, however, I would like to make a few more points. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we wonder where the solutions are leading, which are almost a month-long interference with the individual’s field. For we have increasingly banned individuals. We wonder where the Ministry of Health's preventive measures are in particular. In the LDS, we are convinced that the existing law would in practice work with a significantly greater effect with appropriate supervision and sanctions in cases of non-compliance with legal provisions. Thus, we have yet another proof that the State or its relevant services, for example, inspections, are inadequately controlled [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] the implementation of the applicable laws. [[...]] We fear that by adopting the law we will restrict the rights of the individual and the consensus of society and leave the decision-making of individuals on the country's moral and ethical state. It will therefore be difficult to allow further action in the future to lead to the stigmatisation of smokers and the emergence of hiding places. And for the end, maybe that's all there is to it. In young people, we introduced "hora legalis", where we closed the doors to young people's bars, where they should not be drinking alcohol now anyway. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] underage. [[...]] There's only one thing they have left: spending their free time on the street. I'm afraid it's probably with a bottle or a cigarette. As a result, it is clear that the views on the content of the law in the LDS are different and that our vote will also be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thanks again. Good-bye. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment and amendment of the Tobacco Product Restriction Act, since everyone has the right to clean air and the right to health. The exposure to tobacco smoke violates the fundamental right to inhale air without the health of the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. It is also necessary to protect all occupational groups in the workplace as well as persons in public spaces from tobacco smoke. As a result, due to the adoption of the law, we also expect reduced demand for tobacco products and, of course, the reduction in smokers or increased smoking abandonment, which should aim primarily at maintaining health. In the light of the experience of how the solutions related to smoking restrictions, which were intended for the purpose of changing the past and supplementing this law, there were at first some concerns about smoking in our New Slovenia Group. However, the proposal for a solution for smokers foresees that these are physically separate areas from which the flow of contaminated air by tobacco smoke is not possible to other spaces, that they are intended exclusively for smoking and that no service is permitted. It is also not allowed to carry drinks or food. During the course of the procedure, certain proposals were made by the innkeepers in order to establish a transitional period in respect of smoking plants, but there was a fear that those who did not intend to establish smoking plants would use this period in particular. In our Group of Members, we support the fact that sales and purchases of tobacco products are not allowed for persons under 18 years of age, as we are convinced that this provision makes sense to pursue the objective of reducing the access of young people to cigarettes in general. And, as we say, we are primarily pursuing the goal of maintaining health. Of course, we are aware that there is an indispensable role not only in marriage but in parents, in the family, in kindergarten and in further education, and in particular in the media. We support the solutions that in the event of a violation of the law against smoking in a restaurant there is a liability both to the offender, i.e. to the client at the inn, as well as to the inn which does not warn the offender and not report the relevant inspection service. Of course, responsibility is crucial to the offender himself. So, the offender himself and not the innkeeper, provided that the offender has given timely warning of the infringement and has informed the competent authorities accordingly. In this regard, we call on the Minister to ensure, in an appropriate manner, the effective implementation of the law also by an increased number of inspectors, if necessary, who will monitor the implementation of those provisions, which we will adopt today. Especially with the possibility of a telephone number where guests can call or report violations in the event of violations by their customers at the restaurant. We will support the law in the New Slovenia Group and let the day pass without a cigarette, we invite you Members of the New Slovenia Group, the non-smokers themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you again very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law. Mostly for three reasons. For the sake of everyone's right to live in a healthy environment. For reasons of the right of the State to limit the harmful effects of tobacco use, since this protects a wide range of lives and saves valuable resources for costly treatment of consequences. And because of the awareness and education of young people, that we can do something for a healthier environment ourselves and contribute to limiting harmful emissions, which are already causing climate change. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support the most important objectives and principles of the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, which are: the full protection of employees from all occupational groups against exposure to the harmful effects of tobacco smoke in workplaces and persons in public spaces, the reduction of access to tobacco products to minors, and the harmonisation of the law with the provisions of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and, last but not least, the reduction of demand for tobacco products and the reduction of smoking in particular among young people. We also support the main solutions to the bill's proposal relating to packaging equipment with a telephone number to advise and assist in the removal of smoking. The age limit for the purchase of tobacco products is increasing from 15 years to 18 years. In doing so, we point out that there is also a need to control the implementation of such provisions for those selling tobacco products. The draft law defines more precisely what a closed public or workplace is. An exception to the proposed law no longer allows for the elimination of the inconsistencies of the current regime. However, we believe that we need to listen to comments on the law that better address the implementation of these prohibitions in public premises, particularly in the guesthouses, and point out the inadequacy of the introduction of smoking houses. We ask ourselves: Is there really no other option than that only on the owner of a restaurant is all responsibility for the enforcement of the smoking ban, and indeed there is a range of possibilities available to ensure the implementation of the legal provisions? Many, especially in terms of rural tourism, will probably find it difficult to introduce all the prescribed solutions with low incomes. Perhaps it would be better to listen to those who suggested divorce to smoke and non-smoking bars. And let the guests decide for themselves where to enjoy, sit, eat, and dance. On the other hand, it is perfectly legitimate that a country which must also guarantee the right of everyone to a healthy environment and which at the same time provides very expensive medical care for patients suffering from the consequences of smoking has the legitimate right to lay down rules of the game and to restrict the use of harmful substances on the human body, to which tobacco smoke also belongs. We are aware that if we want the law to be effective and control is possible, there must be as few compromise solutions as possible. However, the legal provisions must be clear that they can also be monitored. As has already been said, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. State secretaries, coworkers with the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues! In the past, in most European countries legislation banning smoking in public places has entered into force. This also includes a ban on jobs. However, there was always a partial exception to the hospitality area. Even though the workers had the right to smoke unpolluted air with tobacco, this did not apply to guest workers. This corrects a new wave of legislation that is gradually being implemented in individual European countries, which also includes restaurants, bars, clubs and similar spaces in the smoking ban. Some countries allow special smokers. Other smoking is prohibited entirely and without exception. However, the fact is that Slovenia has already had a relatively strict law after our assessment, which has been appropriate and sufficiently restrictive, but unfortunately has not been fully implemented in practice. Above all, he lacked proper and constant control. Slovenia follows the most stringent and restrictive trends in Europe with the amendment of the Tobacco Product Restriction Act, solutions that follow the basic objective of protecting all employees and other persons in the workplace, public spaces against tobacco-polluted air. The goal is to allow all people the freedom to choose a lifestyle and at the same time the quality of life. When research proves that smoke is harmful to the health of individuals, it is impossible to deny smoking in public spaces if we may also be able to think about different solutions. For example, on separate parts of public spaces, restaurants, inn facilities, bars and the like, where only smokers could hang out and drink the drinks and coffee they could bring themselves. In the course of the public debate, as well as in the course of the hearing of the National Assembly, a number of questions and inconclusive solutions were raised in the law, which need to be reconsidered and amended. One such is the prohibition of smoking in theatre and other scenes if we want to respect freedom of artistic expression and the right to protect works of art, smoking as an integral part of the show should not be prevented by this law. With the amendment to the second reading at the meeting of the home committee, we tried to apply the exception of smoking in theatres and other stage performances in the parliamentary group, but despite the assurances of the amendment, it was rejected. That's what we're trying to do today. Of course, such a drasticly restrictive law, which we adopt, needs to be alerted to something else. The type of dual morality and hypocrisy that reigns in our society, since at the time of public treatment there was much talk about smokers and stigmatized their habit. At the same time, many other forms of addiction, which are much more burdensome for society and individuals, are not discussed in a similar and equally strict and critical way. Let me mention a much more generally accepted and traditional human folklore-oriented attitude towards alcohol. This, in my personal, firm belief, has significantly worse social consequences - broken families, domestic violence, car accidents and the like. However, even on national television, we can watch a TV show called "Healthy". In this and other similar broadcasts, the participants are toasting. But on the tables and on the stage, we can watch alcohol. The same applies, for example, to excessive consumption of food, particularly in excess where advertising is not limited at all. It is therefore right to maintain a healthy mental attitude towards smokers, who in recent times have reported that they feel criminalized, stigmatized in society. The climate of their second-rate and henceforth separation and separation through the introduction of some kind of smoke chamber. With the same vats of rigour and restraint, will we also pursue other addictions and unhealthy habits? Is this the right and most appropriate way of changing people and getting them into a healthier way of life? Let us also think about this today, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u58	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. Unfortunately, a great deal of regret, in the 200s, mining in Zasavje took place in several fatalities in the mines. The government and the state, two or one of them in that period, did not react. She didn't take the law. She said, "We're going to close the mine, and there will be no more accidents." And don't worry about her. We're just working under stress, nice or ugly. We have to admit to whoever worked and worked under stress, no one ever wrote "stress kills" and no one cares how you work under stress. And when we entered Europe, we were all happy, and now we are servants of this Europe, and we are transcribing the laws that Europe prescribes. It's just become modern to someone. They said, but now we're not gonna smoke, and we're not gonna smoke. But I don't understand this duality. We have a marriage that's great. Nobody among us - I've been in this room for seven years, look, I have cigarettes in my pocket, who saw me smoke in this room? You never, ever, ever, before the "secret," before the "secret" you've got me now. Before the "secret," but there's still a right, but now we don't "keep" there anymore. But also good. I respect you. In public institutions, you don't smoke and you won't smoke. Not in the congregation, not in the National Assembly, not in the hospital, thank God. But tell me the logic, if Bogdan Barovich, I buy a place 20 square meters. It's my property, I pay taxes, I pay everything to the state. It's mine to have someone come and forbid me. Why the hell don't you accept the five, six amendments we tabled? Tell me what the damage is if someone who owns a place 20, 30, 40 square meters wants to have a smoker's place and will pay more taxes for it. That's even what we suggested. He can't. With what right? What right do you prohibit? We've decided on a private society. Here's the Constitution, the holy book. Who doesn't have one. I always have it with me. Read it. This is a violation of the Constitution. This is a violation of fundamental human rights. We're two. Those who don't smoke and those who smoke. And I'll never smoke anywhere where it's forbidden and I won't bother anyone. But those who don't smoke should leave me and me the same, so that we can smoke wherever is allowed. But no more will be allowed under this law. Nowhere else. We can't smoke anywhere else under this law. You'll put us in the chambers. Someone in history has set up such chambers, only instead of cigarette smoke has you ever been smokers at any airport? [[...]] Where's one little room? How does that mean, where do we put the chamber, the chambers in the National Assembly for those who smoke, we smoke? Where? Yeah, 'cause we're gonna fall on the ground in those two square meters. Let me understand. No one has anything against this law, against the prohibition of smoking, as it has been in the past. But why limit it? Tomorrow I'm not allowed to eat red meat because it's supposed to be harmful. I'm not allowed to have sex tomorrow. It's totalitarianism. Nice or ugly, ladies and gentlemen, it's not fair and it's not fair to all people, it's not. Has anyone ever calculated the economic impact? A directive not to sell, be careful, not to anyone, but not to anyone. A 16-year-old person can't sell to me who's 52 years old. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Cigarettes. [[...]] Have you ever considered, by marriage, that after 15 years, children or people can get a job? Now someone's gonna lose their job because they can't sell cigarettes to someone? Well, that's bullshit. So give me some brains. No one is against health care, against smoking in public institutions, against orderly living. And yet, it's totalitarianism. A 16 - year - old child who comes from a commercial school will not be allowed to get a job because he cannot sell a cigarette. But they're selling cigarettes, ladies and gentlemen, everywhere, in handbags and in stores. Just the little things I said. And give me some. I'm asking you nicely and I'm getting a little smart in the head. Above all, those who smoke, say, "We will not smoke, ok. We won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u59	Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u60	Yeah, I'm done. We won't, but be honest and not now say you're in favor of a law against smoking, and then go out and smoke one.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u62	Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State with his fellow Members, Members and Members! I have to start again a little differently, saying that about 650,000 people die each year from smoking and related diseases in the EU. In Slovenia, smoking causes 3,000 deaths per year, some of them due to second-hand smoking. A year after the consequences of secondhand smoking in the workplace, about 15 people die. For secondhand smoking at home, there are about 300 people. In Slovenia almost 24% of adults already smoke, which undoubtedly means one of the biggest public health problems. But I will also be a realist, and I will not forget the problem we have with alcoholism and drugs. Maybe that's a bigger problem for me. Today we have solid evidence that smoking is responsible for 25% of all coronary diseases, 75% of all chronic obstructive lung diseases and 90% of the cause of lung cancer. Of particular concern is the fact that the number of smokers is increasing mainly among adolescents, since it is estimated that about a quarter of 16-year-olds smoke. These are the numbers. The Act on the Limitation of Tobacco Products has now not been particularly effective despite legal restrictions on smoking in workplaces and the separation of smoking and non-smoking premises in guest facilities. Therefore, the Ministry of Health has drawn up a proposal for amendments to the law following the example of other EU countries in order to reduce the ability to expose people to the harmful effects of tobacco smoke and to restrict the access of tobacco products to minors. In the wake of this, it is proposed to introduce a complete ban in all closed and closed spaces, to prohibit the sale and purchase of tobacco products to minors. Of course, also with the reference to a telephone number to help you quit smoking on tobacco products. All of these proposals, and in particular the strict ban on smoking of all closed public and working places in our parliamentary group, are supported, as we are aware and must be aware of the harmfulness of tobacco smoke. The fact that the so-called anti-smoking law is not directed at smokers in any way, since no one denies them the right to decide their own health. Smoking is a personal matter of every individual, his right to start smoking. However, this is not his absolute right. This right is and must be limited by the right of others to enjoy a place where there is no tobacco smoke. Therefore, this proposal aims at greater and more effective protection of the health of non-smokers who are now in public spaces and in workplaces unwittingly exposed to this smoke. It should be noted, in particular, with regard to the implementation and supervision of the law now in force, that effective control of the law is essential for the respect and consistent observance of its provisions, since otherwise all these proposed restrictive measures will only be a letter on paper. We will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposed law will ensure the full protection of all persons against exposure to tobacco smoke in public spaces and the equality of all employees in the exercise of the right to work in places not contaminated by tobacco smoke, since the proposal prohibits smoking in all workplaces and public spaces. The protection against tobacco-polluted air by introducing a complete ban on smoking in closed workplaces and public spaces is primarily aimed at reducing the risk of secondhand smoking for healthy people and also affecting the change in smoking behaviour and the attitude towards smoking. The restriction on smoking in public places also has an additional message that smoking is not socially acceptable. This reduces peer pressure, especially among young people, as the smoking behavior of young and young adults also changes. In addition, restrictions on access to tobacco products will be achieved to minors by increasing the age limit for the purchase and sale of tobacco products from 15 to 18 years. In addition to other health warnings, a telephone number is introduced on the packaging of tobacco products to help remove smoking. This will help smokers who want to quit smoking quickly to avoid smoking by getting acquainted with individual smoking programs. There will also be special areas for smoking, smoking rooms, which will have to meet certain technical conditions and will not be allowed to eat and drink, among other things. However, I believe that no law, no letter of law, can separate people from the passions that are used to it. And if others have been so honest, I can say, I think I'm the biggest second-hand smoker, because my husband smokes night and day.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u66	Dear President, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the Government! Since the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, which was implemented in November 1996, there have been many new developments on the harmfulness of secondhand smoking and the positive effects of the absence of tobacco smoke on non-smokers. The latter is the reason why a proposal for a new law is needed. The World Health Organisation in the document The Right to Clean Air in Closed Premises 2000 warns that everyone has the right to health under the right to clean clean air in closed spaces. These amendments to the existing law are also bound by the World Health Organisation's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, ratified by Slovenia and the European Union, and by the conclusions of the European Union's Ministers' Conference on Tobacco Free Europe, held in Paris in June 2005. The main objectives of the new law, which we are considering today, are: to reduce the exposure of people with the adverse effects of tobacco smoke, to restrict access to tobacco products to minors, as well as to fully protect against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke on employees in all working categories, and to fully protect all persons from exposure to health from the harmful effects of tobacco smoke in public closed spaces. The prohibition of smoking in closed public spaces and workplaces is thus considered to be the most important smoke protection measure for non-smokers. Smoking is also prohibited under the proposal for a new law in premises which are not considered closed by this law if they are part of the respective functional land of the premises where the education and education activity is carried out. This protection is primarily intended to reduce the risk to human health posed by secondhand smoking. In some parts, the law allows for some exceptions, namely, that for smokers there are certain places in accommodations or other providers where accommodations are offered, in nursing homes and prisons, in premises not intended for common use, where smokers themselves live, then in particular for smokers of certain places of psychiatric hospitals and other health care providers of mental patients, as well as areas intended exclusively for smoking and smoking. The novelty of the law is thus smokers, who will have to meet certain technical conditions and will not be allowed to serve and to eat food or drink. However, they will be able to cover up to 20% of the total area of closed public space and employment. However, more detailed conditions will be defined by means of a sub-law. The second important amendment to the novelty also relates to the reduction in the use of tobacco products in young people, by restricting access to tobacco products, increases the age limit from now prescribed 15 to 18 years. As far as the possibility of buying is concerned, as well as selling tobacco products. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law will allow for a partial decline in the use of tobacco products. Above all, we hope that smoking will have a negative connotation in society, making the protected one the most vulnerable. These are youths who often follow the example of older ones. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party fully supports the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The right to clean air in closed spaces is certainly a right that cannot be challenged or that needs to be consistently enforced in practice. Years ago, when a law now in force was passed that partially limited smoking in restaurants and other public spaces, there was actually a compromise between smokers and non-smokers. This has also been done in practice. I am also here to join the evaluations, and we have already said this several times so that the consistent implementation of the existing law can produce better results. However, this consistent implementation, including sanctioning, has not been achieved. Various barriers were used to restrict the area to smokers or to provide seemingly non-smokers with legal rights and smoke spread across the board. Total smoking is prohibited only in educational and health institutions, pastry shops and dairy restaurants, public transport facilities. This is in the premises of the public authorities, especially in the premises which are intended to work with the parties. By preventive activities of healthcare professionals already in primary schools, they raise awareness among adolescents about the harmfulness of smoking, both active and passive. Here we can see that, as a mockery of all these efforts, smoking of young people is moving forward, starting in an increasingly early age. A study by Velenjčko Andrej Zupančič years ago showed that 82% of smokers opt for smoking by the age of 20. So it's a highly worrying information. Nicotine is one of the most addictive substances and poses a serious risk to the health of smokers as well as those with them who inhale nicotine, i.e. passive smokers. The solution set out in the law, which provides that the age limit for the purchase of tobacco products should be raised from the current 15 to 18 and should contribute to the reduction of access to tobacco. Here, of course, the opinions are shared. We can only hope that this will not mean further trade in tobacco when tobacco is purchased at a higher price than older drug dealers under 18 years of age. This danger certainly exists. Experiences with illicit drugs only attach this to us. There may also be a problem on the part of traders. A number of warnings were made when tobacco sales are also prohibited under 18 years of age. The problem is mainly on the sellers’ side, when those who complete the course for the trade profession have not yet reached the age of 18. So, according to this law, we're not supposed to sell tobacco products. There will be some problems for those who are, say, owners or employers in stores. The introduction of a complete ban on smoking in all closed public and workplaces means that the exceptions allowed by the applicable law will no longer exist. This means that all employees will be able to work in rooms without tobacco smoke. Weakness in this law is certainly a provision in Article 6, which lays down the responsibility of owners, tenants or managers of places where smoking is prohibited. This is mainly a question of the feasibility of this provision. How to stop someone from smoking unless they respect the law. Without the intervention of the authorities qualified to do so, it will certainly not be possible. An important novelty is also the entry on the packaging of tobacco products calling for a cessation of smoking and the telephone number on which smokers and smokers can get help in deciding to quit smoking. The proposer's announcement that the bill will have no financial implications for the state budget and other financial resources may unfortunately be correct. But at the same time, in this case, especially pessimistic. The applicant therefore does not foresee that the consumption of tobacco products and thus the level or extent of excise duties will be reduced as a result of the application of this Act. With the desire that we all be together [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] In reducing nicotine addiction, we will support the proposed proposal in the parliamentary group. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, 19.6.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I'll just ask whoever wants to raise their hand. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u70	Your Honors are here! When I spoke about this amendment or even better about the amendment, which was prepared in the same way, only in the second article, to deal with the draft law on the home committee with the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan, and warned him that, when such a law enters into force, if adopted in this way, it will be impossible to smoke in theatre and other stage art. The minister says, "No, it's not possible. It's a lapsus, you're probably wrong or you haven't read the law well enough." That's not true. The law will, as we know, prohibit such designated closed spaces. That is also true where theatre plays are performed. Also on stage smoking, pipe smoking, smoking cigarettes, smoking something else, and smoking, which in many parts is a modern and even older dramatic part of the theatre’s dramatic expression. The Minister assured me before the hearing on the working body that he would study this and that he seemed confident that this would remain because he understood that the works were under certain express protection, if I may say so. But no, then the minister was quiet. I also understand that he did not support a solution that would be in favour of copyright. So let me stress once again if your explanation is not sufficiently possible to reach your heart, why it is necessary to make this exception. I admit that Article 2 may be less appropriate than the one we have proposed for the labour force in the context of possible exceptions. But also this solution that speaks of being able to be answered in a theater on stage, in a indoor bathtub. After all, those theatremen, actors, directors who are currently familiar with this law do not believe that it is possible that such a restriction can reach out to the author's work, which, I warn you, certain dramatic texts may not even be possible to put on stage. We know that in the theater today smoking is under certain restrictions or supervision, if I may say so better. So, the presence of fire safety. Players also do not take part in their roles when they do not respond to them or when they are not smokers. It may be simulated to some extent, but you're simulating in the theater. Of course, which in itself is already a simulation. Just a few things. Let's say, clearly, in the bottle that it's supposed to be in, say, whiskey or something, it can be tea or just some liquid that's similar, but smoking, which has a role in the dramatic moment, is impossible to simulate. True, they are used, especially abroad, by some cigarettes that have either lower nicotine presence or where smoking is simulated by not inhaling. But it's not even possible to simulate it after this law. The minister says, well, they'll find their way. But they will find themselves so that certain texts cannot be portrayed. Like movies such as Jim Jarm's Coffee and Cigarettes, which are recorded in the interior, we could never make in the studio in Slovenia. I will not say that because we do not have Jima Jarm books in Slovenia, but because the text, the nature of the text, is such that it requires the presence in this case of cigarettes. Once again, I warn you that cigarettes can be a certain dramatic part, where only their presence in hand is too small, because it also needs a certain event. For example, if you have been paying attention these days or months ago to SNG Drama, Prime Minister of Social Drama by Russian playwright Sigareva, in which in fact a large part of the emphasis on copyright is based on the use of cigarettes as a playwright that promotes certain nervousness that underlines certain tensions, class differences, roughness that are present throughout the very socially colored text. It warns of some existential tension and so on. The cigarette is present. Not like the one that makes the other smoke, but like the one that reproduces certain lifestyles. And these habits, whatever they are, have been and cannot be censored on the basis of a ban that, of course, has a completely different moment. After all, smoking can also have a pedagogical effect. Many times this is also evident in dramatic texts. For example, if anyone decides to make a movie about Titus or Churchill or Bernstein, who we know has gone after a cigarette the last day before he dies and doesn't hide it, he'll have to do it in the exterior. It is said that in an outer space where this non-smoking clause in a closed space will not be available or will be in a completely different function. It's not just my conclusion. In fact, this amendment was made at the request of theatre circles or all those who are aware of the awkwardness that will occur if you do not listen to such an exception. And what do directors, actors and playwrights say? They simply say that "the ban on smoking in theatre performances will significantly undermine the communication and aesthetic integrity of a large part of the drama of the 19th and 20th centuries. Especially contemporary dramas or more. It will prevent these dramas from coming to the repertoire at all because they will be copyrighted and will no longer have a stamp given with the original or with the original work. Why am I talking about the 19th and 20th centuries? Smoking is certainly during this period, not only during this period, but it is an integral part of life and artistic performances or plays that also represent or talk about everyday life or other life, and these are routine parts of some behavior, some social standards. As we know, the drama is about recording life. That's why we have it. Dear colleagues, my friend! I see you several times in the theater, including the Minister of Culture, who is a regular. I know that you understand the problems that the theatres will face, as well as other performing artists in the field of performing art, in so far as they will announce the law you are now proposing. Let me make one more point, which I also spoke to the Minister about. And I also understand that, or at least if he is not double enough, he has also listened to this encouragement. There is another option that we accept if we would support this amendment and possibly change it further. A possibility that would allow the minister, either the Minister of Health or the Minister of Culture, to allow any play that includes smoking pipe, cigars or tobacco, to perform. This is said to give permission for each performance individually. Something similar to what we have in the field of film, when certain films can be broadcast in Slovenia without translations, if that is permitted by the Minister on a case-by-case basis. These exceptions are rare, but it happens that the film comes for single use and closed circuits. At the time of the Minister's permission, it may also be broadcast in this way. So, as I say, if you don't like this amendment, then there's still a possibility that's bureaucratic and I'm not that sympathetic. But better than nothing, for every theatre work, for every stage performance he asks for the minister's permission so that he can be portrayed in an integral form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I think each marriage has its own explanation for the article. And if this retainer, which our colleague has just presented here, then if I take a little bit of fun, it would mean that the theaters also have to make themselves on the stage of the smoking room and then go to a show that requires a performance, with a cigarette in the smoking room and play there. That would be a lot of growth, probably all of it, all of it. I don't think this explanation of yours is correct. Because this is a game, and because some other things are also in public spaces, for example, banned as exhibitionism, or other scenes, not to say any, the theatres are very much in love with it on their stageboards. So it's not to be understood in the way you've presented it here. But if you accepted what you suggest, you would automatically introduce smokers for the theatre because you would walk, and then you would be happy to continue smoking there. So that is likely, then I will wait for the Ministry representative to respond to this amendment and then make a decision accordingly. But since I'm already speaking, I'd like to express my attitude, if I may, to this marriage. I'm a non-smoker, but I'm actually kind of neutral about these prohibitions. I do not think that such regulation will, in essence, have the effect that this law seeks to achieve. And I personally have no objection to those who smoke if they want to smoke and buy expensive cigarettes and thus somehow fill the state budget. True, then, during a period of time, some or many of them quit or quit smoking when they face health problems. There's a lot of cases like this. Every time you run into these problems. And also this information that 650,000 people die a year from smoking. I'd say it's not exactly accurate. He dies sooner than usual, because in the end we are all destined for one final goal and all recorded deaths. So that cigarettes can only get closer to this end sooner. That is true, and then the cost of treatment is considerable. But I very much agree that those who work in restaurants, innhouses, have the right not to be passive smokers, not to inhale this air. These rooms smell like shit. If you come to the cafeteria, where you smoke or worse in the inn, where you also mix the scents with food and so on, desperate and I, say, like a non-smoker in such a place I don't go, because in such a room you can't normally order food and then also in some way feel good. Maybe it could be solved in some other way. Some of you have already suggested that those buffets, which are already smokers and even smokers smell, continue to do so by allowing owners to decide and pay a certain fee for it, then the country would probably have some of it. Now with this law, we will somehow give the opportunity to reward those who will start making some glass or what cages will be that where the smokers will find themselves inside and they will be able to look out at others and others then inside them and then separate in this way. Because it's some kind of separation. That was already said today. It was achieved in the previous law when it was said that such a place should have a separate space for smokers. Then, of course, the owners took advantage of it by making some kind of metric barrier and then they said, "Yes, this is now a separate space." This is the way a marriage dictatorship has been played and passed. In view of the fact that the Group of Members has decided to support this law, I will support it myself. However, I do not think that it will have a major impact on the reduction of smoking, which is a major problem among young people. There's a lot of young smokes today. Smoking in front of schools, smoking in parks, smoking on the street. Cigarette cucumbers throw all over the place, and then we can see it in places where they don't clean. I think that some other measures, particularly in the field of education, will have to be taken to reduce this smoking, which is a problem for each of the developed societies, in some way. The very prohibitions of marriage, including the so-called Kebra Act, which prohibited the pouring of alcoholic beverages by 10 a.m. and similar prohibitions, seem to me to be pointless. This is certainly not the same as what I heard in the presentation of one of the parliamentary groups, where it was said once again that "hora legalis" had been introduced. It keeps repeating itself, and of course it's not true. Something completely different has been accepted as "hora legalis". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this point? Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I do not intend to support the amendment myself, because if we want to enforce the law as it is supposed to, then there must be no exception. I may know the situation in Ireland where high penalties up to €2,000 are at risk and there are no exceptions. And on the one hand, I felt sorry for the smokers when they were smoking outside the hotel and I felt like they had stolen something. Now about this: "Chick" as the effect of the game may be somewhere at 9999 places of effect, music, scene, performance and so on. To imitate the unburned, as other stage effects are not 100% natural. So the horse is woody, he's not a living horse, and he doesn't walk on stage. The car's a silhouette and it's not driving around on stage here and there. Instead of playing drinking, they are likely to drink tea or a similar colored liquid, otherwise the performance would lose its value. The fight isn't a serious fight, but it's supposed to be a freak. And sex is just a freak, and it's not real sex. This can also be illustrated by smoking with an unsmoked cigarette. But if they want to illustrate why space can be made with artificial fog. So there are alternative stage effects and the exception of smoking as an artistic impression certainly cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u76	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, this amendment must be supported or the law should be taken with much reserve. The point is, smoking on stage is certainly not smoking. But with all the witty solutions I've heard, there's another one in stock. You could smoke medical cigarettes that are found in pharmacies where there is no tobacco and do not fall under the law on the restriction of tobacco products or the danger of robots, at all, if there are any more rural issues. That can be arranged. But we're going to the marriage alone. Of course, the law is again intended for stigmatization. Mr. Secretary of State, it's enough for a normal person to say that something is harmful, and you say that it harms others, and that's enough. Here, of course, we went into total ban, stigmatization, but not banning for any other reason, health, social and so on. But because after the previous marriage, it was impossible to control who could not. One "s" was missing. In the meantime, of course, a real race against smokers was launched. I can show you letters from serious institutions where, of course, smokers are vilified as of course in civilized society does not work. Instead of cultivating a smoking culture, such as that already, Slovenia had during the two wars, and there by the 1960s, we are landing again on some foreign, but here, indeed, foreign civilisation patterns. Those who sent Lucky Strike to us after World War II in the UNRA packages to get used to smoking are, of course, showing us how harmful and reckless that is. And of course, the Slovenians are happy to agree to all such prohibitions. Suddenly, this has become very modern. The law will certainly reduce the number of smokers and, of course, it will increase excise duties in order to ensure that the financial consequences will not be met. So tobacco products will have to be enormously stimulated, at least 50% to 60%, in order to capture this in the light of the expected abandonment of smoking. The other thing that seems important to me in this law is that it was somehow calculated again that it was a minority, which, of course, must be marked, stigmatized and eliminated in all ways. Smokers, like on the western coast of the United States, not in the east, but only in the west are those who are actually ridiculed who are excluded from society. This is obviously one of the goals again, but if it is not a target that has been written down, it will certainly be a side effect. The current law has been very good, only it should be implemented. As far as restricting accessibility in young people is concerned, I think that this is the only part that is worthy of support at the moment, since other mechanisms that have sometimes worked have really dropped the school ban and so on. Anything else could have been thrown into the basket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about the amendment to Article 2 of our colleagues of unrelated Members. You could understand him in some way. However, it is important to say that everyone would like such leave in this public space, both sportsmen, health workers, social workers and so on. And it is likely that everyone would find any such or other argument that would suit them to at least have a certain amount of forgiveness of this law. However, let me be allowed, honourable President, to think that this step that we are taking today is restrictive, strict, determined, uncompromising. Literally, perhaps, with all due respect to smokers and smokers, very sharp. We have looked around Europe and found some models that most European countries have and that show that health as the greatest value, health, society, the environment must somehow also protect. In this case, we certainly do, I can literally say, we're throwing smokers and smokers on the road. And it is also ultimately the right to those who work for example in a restaurant to have the right to clean air, to have normal working conditions, because there is no such thing today. The existing law, which is in force, I tried it myself as the director of a company, although it was a good one. Sadly, though, he had holes to say so, perhaps a little less control, and soon he was devalued in the sense that he was originally meant to do. Unfortunately, he didn't give those real effects, the results. It's easy to find the reasons why it was the way it was. Each owner has found his way in one way or another and has met the criteria of the non-Silean population in the locals. In most cases, though, when there was no real control later, it was minimized and became what it was. I think that this concern of the state is right to care for, above all, its young generations who are on the march, when they are interfering with these so-called pleasures. I was a smoker myself once, and luckily not in puberty, but after I graduated from high school, and then, thank God, 12 years ago I came to realize this delusion and with hard will I decided not to smoke for myself, my family, my environment and so on. But it's not that simple, it's simple. It takes a strong character to throw this habit on the side of the track. And I did it. This is what I consider the greatest victory over myself. The law, in my opinion, is positive, good, it's strict. Like I said, he's going to have an effect. But I fear what my predecessors have already said, the very law of all these problems and the desire will certainly not solve. Many of these tasks must be carried out by family, home environment, education. The second is definitely a school that may be under-consecrated. And the media and general awareness. I think that there is more to worry about because only this written document and strict restrictions on smokers are likely not to give this expected result. As unfortunately, we don't have the expected result on the roads. Unfortunately, we have strong measures, great penalties, etc. And we can see that the number of accidents, including fatalities, is even increasing, but not decreasing. There's trouble somewhere else. Not only in the legislation and implementation of legislation, but also in the general social environment, which is what it is. I hope and I believe that you will accept the law, that this path will go and that it will achieve its goal. At least partly this goal is to try at least some smoker, but above all we are trying to protect those who work in environments exposed to daily smoke, which is certainly not friendly, which is bad, etc. But it's true that in those chambers, I'm guessing, only the hottest smokers who'll last that hour, the two in the bar won't last, and they'll go in there and smoke cigarettes, two. I'm sure it'll be a small group of people, because that average smoker or chamber won't be looking for it, and he won't find a soul in that room, so he'll take the pleasure that maybe fits in some other environment, not some kind of chamber. But good, the chance will be given. He'll have a chance to smoke some cigarettes there, etc. In short, free choice still remains for each individual to smoke as much as he smokes. However, knowing that he is primarily harming himself, this time he will not harm his environment, that is, those who do not smoke and who will not be exposed to nonsmokers in the smoking environment. Of course, to achieve the respect of smokers also in the National Assembly of Non-Smokers. I'm sure it'll unlock them a little too. Probably, but I also believe that they will find themselves in one way or another and probably always smoke somewhere where this will be allowed. But I do have a good recipe, and maybe not on my own path. Dear Members and Members who smoke, I know a good recipe for this new law: Stop smoking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u80	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I would just like to take a moment to comment on the debate so far and perhaps try to point the debate and the view of the law with a few arguments. Just like he was introduced and destined to. So from the debate itself, I have accepted that, therefore, all Members and Members of Parliament, you support restricting access to tobacco products to minors. However, it may be a bit of a difference in the law’s desire to reduce people’s accessibility to harmful effects of tobacco products. And here, as the debate now shifts towards the protection or ghettoisation of smokers, I would like to point out that the law adopted in 1996 and classified Slovenia among the leading countries of the European Union, which has taken an important action in the field of public health, could actually be ghettoised in your language even in some sense. It divides spaces for those who don't smoke and for those who smoke. Of course, at that time, the entire medical science or even science went on and with extensive pedagogical research proved that passive smoking was also harmful. In the proposal you have exact figures from the European Union. You can transfer them to Slovenia and find that 7,000 people die from exposure to second-hand smoking in the European Union. Seventy-two thousand die in the workplace, and 72 thousand in the house. So we still have a lot to attend to. Rather, we want to improve, not only to prolong life, but also to improve the quality of life so that in some sense we can understand the statement that someone will die a little sooner, but that the health system wants to equalize or approximate the life expectancy and quality of life. And how important it is that tobacco in that group of under 65 years of age leaves an indelible consequence. Let me go back to the law that was passed in 1996. Because I heard there were no effects. Any other important public health effects. This Slovenia is one of those who has taken an important step. At or before the adoption of the law, 28% of smokers in Slovenia were smokers. After 10 years, 23% of smokers or 20% of smokers in the Slovenian area decreased. There are 20% smokers in the European space. In short, with the knowledge that secondhand smoking is harmful and that we have sought to upgrade the existing law with the changes we have introduced to the European Union and other countries. Of course, as my predecessor put it beautifully, everyone would like to be an exception. In the amendment or the comment on the amendment, we also think that this is public space and that somehow the message value could be replaced or provided with substitutes. Finally, the argument itself was even said that some countries are doing so in the European area. In short, I plead not to point out that the law is ghettoizing or expelling smokers. No, the law has one of the basic tasks or objectives, in addition to restricting access to young people, in particular by allowing a safe working environment for all citizens. Of course, in no way limits smokers to their decision to smoke. Of course, they'll have to choose the place to do it. At the same time, the law also works in the preventive area, as it will be necessary to allow citizens who smoke to turn to help if they perceive it and use some of the preventive programmes that are notified to us. So, workshops on quitting smoking, programs that are directed at schools and other places where healthy schools are introduced, and preventive programs or promotion programs to quit smoking. But let me finish as my predecessor. If you have listened to me carefully, there are a substantial number of people at home or a significant number of people die from secondhand smoking. In addition to our workplace, there is much more to look at or to look in the mirror, whether we have done enough to live and work in a healthy environment and to strengthen our health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and colleagues! No soup is eaten as hot as it is cooked. Surely we will not solve the problem of smoking with this law. We have a law to protect non-smokers, at least that's how I understand it. Not to prevent smokers from smoking or restricting them. No, it protects those who do not want to come under the influence of this drug or harmful smoke to enable them to do normal work, a normal life without these harmful toxins. That, I think, is the basic purpose of this law. Of course, besides trying to prevent young people from accessing this drug. Which I think is absolutely right. Smokers who are addicted have smoked and will smoke. I can tell from my own experience that they will stop first one week before the last hour. I don't want anyone looking at a guy who's dying of cigarettes. I agree there are as few exceptions in the law as possible. I am convinced that even if the law so far did not have so many exceptions, it would have worked much better. And for this reason, of course, I am not prepared to support any changes that would lead to the possibility of as many exceptions as possible coming through the side door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Hello, my dear. With regard to the amendment to Article 2, I would say briefly that the explanation is quite extensive and quite interesting. You can have a little fun in the middle of reading this. But I have to say, I have to confirm that this is true of all that is written. By pointing out that we should, in fact, also in other laws that we have adopted here as the National Assembly, think about this problem, if I may say so when we have adopted them. I would only mention the Law on Public Order and Peace. I think that even in that law there is a lot of writing, something that can be done or should not be done on public surfaces or in particular on these areas, which are also somehow connected to some theatre performance. And if we adhered to that law, then there was something illegal or will be done on the stage or at other scenes in the future. I wanted to point out that there is now this proposal, which would somehow allow it to be smoked on stage, if any scene so requires. In fact, I can't imagine that if this scene asks for it, if that actor or whoever plays that part will light a cigarette, it'll be some kind of alarm about this law. I kind of agree with the Ministry that this amendment would have to be specifically required to be enshrined in the law. I don't think it's necessary, but I'm referring once again to all the other laws where there could be problems right now. Above all, they could be or will be in the future. And if we didn't raise this problem at the time, and we're living by going to a certain show, then there's probably nothing going on here, so I don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I did not intend to debate this amendment myself, but I can say in advance that I will support it. I think the theater is a kind of improvisation. But you can't improvise everything. Someone exposed Churchill. I can't imagine him on stage with a carrot and a fog on the back to improvise smoking. Those of you talking about improvising in sex, I think it was one of the government MPs, my condolences. Those of us who do this, we do our best then, at least I hope, to do our best. But they all went a little wider, not just on the amendment. The purpose of the law is to reduce smoking. What's forbidden is the sweetest. It's from your sacred book. And I doubt that the law will contribute to reducing the number of smokers. I'm a smoker myself. Believe me, the only thing that would stop me from smoking right now, but I'm saying right now, is that cigarettes wouldn't be available. But they're not available to me when I can't buy a pack of cigarettes. Dear Secretary of State, you said how many smokers have decreased since the introduction of the first law. But you forgot to say that at the same time this law also raised the prices of tobacco products and excise duties. The question is, what has affected 3% less smokers. I'm pretty sure it's the price of a pack of cigarettes we have to give. And those who say it's very awful to watch someone die because of cigarettes. Believe me, it's just as terrible to see someone dying in a car accident, from, I'll say, illicit drugs or anything. Directly after the consequences of smoking. And that's where you're going to pin it on me. No one dies. In fact, this may be the reason for the development of one disease that is deadly. No one, but no one really dies because they smoked. He dies because of a disease that can or cannot be. Believe me, lung cancer has people who haven't seen cigarettes. This is a very general debate and very general talk about it, it seems very unrealistic to me. But let's take a look on the other side. Children in the sixth grade of elementary school know what "over till" means. They know what a needle means, they know how to make a dose of heroin, and this government has not yet taken any serious action. He even knows one type of treatment that he also finances. It's methadone. We treat people with drugs. But there's nothing going on in this direction. Today you allow by banning smoking all on average, but to save no life. We won't. We won't. We're going to isolate a group of people who can be bigger or smaller. The data is very relative as to how many people smoke occasionally, regularly, in one way or another, and how many they do not smoke. I think marriage is a more fashionable fly. Remember a few years ago or a few decades ago, maybe even when I was gone. Some older Members here certainly remember this when smoking was modern. Not only modern, it was luxury. Even Bonton wrote about how to smoke, so you wouldn't look awkward when you smoke. Most of you, who I heard here today, but I believe this is not a confessional session, is this: "I used to smoke, but today I stopped." At first, I said I was a smoker, but not with the intention of admitting anything. I'm a smoker. And the only thing I've ever said that could take me away or take me away from smoking is money for the first time right now. And once, as Mr Janc has said, the terrible will that you must have, and only will and money, is not a ban on universal smoking. That's enough will. All those who are aware of the real harm that smoking does will make up their minds. Not if we forbid them. You know what hurts me the most as a smoker - the posters I see in a health care home: healthy lungs, sick lungs. These are things that let you think about what it means or doesn't mean cigarettes. Not a smoking ban. Far from it. Some people enjoy smoking. For some, this is an excess of experiences in their daily lives. Let's try to respect it and not limit it to one cell, chamber, isolation, I don't know what. Some enjoy sitting in front of the TV. We know TV's bad for the eyes if you watch it too close, and we don't ban it. Please, let's stop fooling around with words about how hard it is to watch someone who's dying of cigarettes, not blind themselves to reduce the number of smokers, because it's stupid. It is right to do something to make fewer people smoke in this country or to take care of their health in any way or other, just not in the way you suggest. Even if I go back to the amendment. I'm telling you, there's enough improv in theaters today and in movies. I doubt you could have a frame set up to do it without a cigarette. Someone said, "With no smoke," and then we let go of the smoke, and you don't know whether it's smoking out of his mouth or from somewhere else on the stage. Please, a little serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the apostle Gez Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Have a nice hello to you all. In the debate we have Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2, which says: "Among the public spaces intended for the activity of culture do not count the places where performances in the field of stage art are performed." And after all the debate that's been going on for a while, I think my colleague Mikolić was the first to discuss the contents of this amendment. Everyone else has discussed the law in general, and I don't think Mr Marusič has responded directly, either, with regard to the support of this amendment - yes or no. Any law that restricts or prohibits is always exempt. And it is not said that we must reject every exception for limiting things in the most drastic way, even if they are illogical. At the same time, we agree, because there is no need to make an exception, the exception will be the event itself and what is wrong if, I don't know, in the theater on the stage of the bathtub. Smoking is legal in this case, as the proponent says, "a space where performances in the field of stage art are performed." The law prohibits this, but at the same time we agree that this can still happen, even though we have not made exceptions to the law. I don't think that logic can hold up. And besides, according to my opinion, this law has enough good things to support it, I will support it already, but we have several amendments before us, which are logical, and one of them is the one we have at the moment, and I don't see any excessive reasons why not you, some of you even support the solution, but you will vote against it anyway, because you have already made such a deal. Think about it and take into account the logic of this amendment, and perhaps someone else to get support, not to say, we have adopted the law, but we do not need to implement it. The biggest problem with such laws is, even the previous or existing one, that we do not have, and we do not implement it. And it's the same here. We say in advance, "Yes, but we're not going to do everything." If we want them to be effects, then let us adopt the law that will be implemented and the authorities responsible for it will represent the solutions and implement the law. Thank you very much. And let's try to understand the exceptions and also make them legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I will not be as strict as my fellow Member, Bogdan Barovic, in presenting the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Probably because I'm not a smoker myself. But I must also say that I respect those who light a cigarette because it is their free will. Therefore, I do not understand certain provisions of the law, which, according to my assessment, are somewhat confused by logic or by the other legislation in force in our country. And let me just mention raising the age limit, that is, for those who can buy a pack of cigarettes, from 15 to 18. At the age of fifteen, we know that under certain conditions, citizens and citizens in our country can have the ability to do so. How does this law solve these cases? Will a person who, at the age of 15, is employed, in a regular working relationship, have to send a pack of cigarettes to the store, I don't know, his parents? I am only interested in this ambiguity in marriage or in logic, with the rest of the legislation in our country. On the other hand, several amendments are very logical and meaningful and have already been tabled in the second treatment of the parent’s working body. I have already addressed the Minister of Health, and I must say that I was truly disappointed, a request to take account of the economic effects of this law in the preparation of the law. Economic effects on innkeepers and others who will be greatly affected by the law. Also because of the transitional period you are terminating or during which you have not consented. This is that transitional period for the installation of smoke houses. But then I got a clear and loud response from the Ministry. Mr Minister has been signed in response to the fact that the Government has not done any concrete analysis in this area. Neither do they, distinguished government representatives or representatives of the Ministry. Last but not least, my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, mentioned a real topic that would be worth considering. He referred to methadone therapy as the only government measure of "healing" in nicknames, addictions. I mention this because you mentioned this, Mr Secretary of State, because you mentioned your concern for human health: however, that with this law so many and so many people in our country are healthier will live healthier. Commendable policy or at least the Ministry's thinking in this area. Again, I will remind you of a government measure, the only officially recognised government measure to which our country has joined or acceded for so many and many years. Methadon Therapy - The country of the Republic of Slovenia finances drugs to say that, I don't know, at least one of the measures recognised in the world has taken place to treat this pressing problem, the increasingly pressing problem of young people. But here you are not prepared to do anything because the project cares about the health of young people. Most of the time, young people are exposed to drugs. The vast majority of young people. We have heard that in the sixth grade, children know very well how to do this. But in this area, the government has no measures, no, I'll say, strategies, it doesn't want to go, because it's much harder than writing a law that prohibits smoking in every place. I would like to make one more point, but obviously this is not the concern of our government, the Ministry of Health. A large-scale survey has recently been carried out within the European Union, which has shown that, in fact, in Slovenia, across the European Union, smoking can be the cheapest and also the lowest price for drinking alcohol. And I believe you know, Mr. Secretary of State, that alcoholism in our country is also a major problem. And you know what's sad? That alcohol, a glass of wine in the inn is cheaper than a glass of non-alcoholic drink. But don't talk about it. This is what our government should be working on in the first place! On the other hand, when I mentioned this study by the European Union, this same study showed that in our country, however, the most expensive bread and milk are in our country throughout the European Union. I will support the amendment as well as all the other amendments. I am truly, once again, sorry that what I have just mentioned in the end is not your strategy for caring for, I don't know, increasing the health of citizens and citizens of our country. And I'm sorry that you didn't take this law into account - in general, I'm going to say the law, ok. We'll accept it and see if it's taken into account or not. I'll do it myself. In the law, once again, the economic effects were not taken into account. I would like to know what the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will say, which I believe will be the first to face the consequences of this law when small guest houses close.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. There's a member of Parliament, Maja Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u92	I would like to return the debate to where it should be, as stated in Article 2 and this amendment. I don't protect smokers or those who, as passive smokers, are supposed to be at risk with them. But I protect public speaking and freedom of expression. This law will limit it. It will limit the possibility of putting on the stage in the theatre and elsewhere those dramatic lyrics where smoking is an integral and message part of the show. Mr. Sok, I don't understand whether you're joking or you don't know the theater, or if you think we're a fool when you say they should put a chamber on stage. Indeed, the Chamber of Smokes will be and is in some way already some sort of stage; even more, I think there is even an embarrassing stage, which also has an educational effect, "see them, what manners they have, let's give them a glimpse." But to put on the theatre scene a chamber, I understood or I hope that it was something like a rhetorical parable, because otherwise we would have intervened once again in the work of writing, and it was a scenographic character. In short, it's a surreal enough idea, so I have the feeling that we're all dealing with surreal ideas here or not knowing the freedom of artistic expression. In this country, and perhaps not only in this law, they are increasingly being reproduced to the point of disability, so I really expect that we will get a law on when to breathe and when not. This amendment, which we propose, is not about encouraging smoking. It's about allowing for the possibility of performing, the free display of artistic works. Mr. Zicherl says it's only possible to imitate yourself if the sexual act is to be simulated on stage, why not smoke. Why should, say, Virginia Wolf, who we know has been drinking and smoking all the time, and in the theater this is clearly highlighted with these devices talking about her, her existential and another other crisis. Why should I keep a cigarette like that and show it, look, I got it right here, but of course I can't, because the law forbids me to smoke. These are the effects you will achieve. And, Mr. Secretary of State, you haven't answered what you think about it, except that they should just get some medical supplies, a pipe, a cigar. I don't know if the directors should go to the pharmacy and find replacements for the players that will bring this effect that you will destroy by this law. Art is simply a specific feature and has certain realistic moments also present. Smoking is in a way, if allowed, a display of certain habits or habits of people in life. When Werner Herzog made the film, he took the ship to Amazon and cut down half the forest in South America. He also went to the volcanic area just before the volcano broke out and risked achieving a certain effect with the film. Art is wide and let us not be embarrassed by it, especially if we do not know it. Indeed, the stage performances might be about what you say in marriage, about endangering a second-hand smoker. But I said, options are open. If you leave any further thought that you haven't made in spite of the minister's promise - I don't know why he lied to me on the phone when he listened to this idea or the idea that comes from theatre or stage workers, I don't know if he was embarrassed by the short, why don't we just let those other possibilities that I said before be allowed - get a stamp from the minister: this play can also be played by lighting two, three, four, five cigarettes - or one, it can also be standardized - whether once a pipe is lit or one cigar, for example, if we were to do Tito's self-port. [[...]] And we'd give "stamps" because "stamps" are picked up every day more in this country, but at least it would be, say. When this law is passed, if it is as you say it will not be possible. There may be other forms of open roads, I don't know, the withdrawal of the first five species in the theater, but find them, not be ignorant to me, or at least to us all, and to anyone else, the Secretary of State - the Secretary of State - is not here, quite symptomatic - tell us how you understand the limitation of freedom of expression. Freedom of expression, which is a fundamental postulate of art. I would be very grateful if you would explain this to me in relation to this marriage. This is the second time we've had this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Yeah, yeah, you'll get your buddy Sok. I am informing the Government that it can be included in the debate at any time. This is especially desirable when questions are addressed to you. Thank you. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u94	Yes, thank you for the floor, Vice-President of the National Assembly. I thought I had already answered you in my longer opening address when I wanted the debate to move in that direction, to actually protect here or what the basic purpose of the law is. I will reiterate that the amendment as such is not acceptable for the preparers, because we believe that it is a closed public, working place where smoking is not allowed. Therefore, there should be no exceptions and that this message value can also be provided with compensation. Let me be allowed because I've got the word, now just a few more replicates on some statements. In fact, we can extend the public debate or this law to the whole area of prevention, promotion, but we would be happy to discuss it in a reasoned manner. I'll try to give the most reasoned information why the law changes the age limit. This is enshrined in the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, adopted at the 56th meeting of the General Assembly of the World Health Organisation on 21 May 2003, and this Assembly ratified on 15 March 2005. It clearly states that minors, who are under 18 years of age, are not allowed to sell or buy. So, in fact, you have also helped that this framework convention has come. Of course, I did not have time to verify exactly how each Member voted, but in fact this Framework Convention in Slovenia has been ratified and is binding on the Ministry of Health to adopt. We can also extend the debate on tobacco dependence to all other areas. The programme you mentioned twice - it is a low-level programme that is located in Slovenia and is covered by compulsory health insurance, but it is certainly not the only one. Whether we have sufficiently expanded the programmes to limit the availability or use of drugs in Slovenia, it can be a broader issue, but it is certainly not easy to simplify that it is the only programme that is accessible in Slovenia. With regard to somehow exposing high prices - I still agree that the debate should begin and, last but not least, the Minister or the Ministry of Health has also started on the euro of tobacco, I hope that you will confirm any change, but it is not in this legislation. It is a law that regulates taxes or actually in another area. How meaningful it would be to adopt such a euro, how such funds would actually be used for broader prevention programmes to actually increase the proportion of those who do not smoke in the Slovenian space. However, it is so easy to attribute the merit of why the proportion of smokers has dropped, but only the price increase would actually want in-depth analyses. These can be used from comparisons from other countries, but hard numbers that are commendable for Slovenia to reduce the proportion of smokers from 28% to 23% cannot be overlooked. In fact, the law had its positive effects, some of which could also have led to a difference in the selling price, but it all led to these effects. To talk about possible effects or precise assessments of what these economic consequences will be - of course, we can compare here with countries that have introduced similar restrictions in the law, and you will probably not accept this, but the experiences of other countries have shown that after the amendment of the law it is a year or two, that there are virtually no important economic effects. Those owners of the restaurants that will decide and set up the smoking houses will probably be their economic burden, I can recognize that, but it is their decision whether or not they will open up in their local smoking rooms. The experience of neighbouring countries, which have introduced or have introduced even worse distractions, has shown that in fact the economic status of these has not changed either that the remaining offer is the same or that a different offer has even occurred in the inn itself. These are information from other countries that I can present to you today. However, I accept any comment you may have made, that is, that the economic burden of the smoking room will be, but for those innkeepers who will decide for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Member Aloise Sok is included in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much. All I want to do is explain to my colleague Majda that if she listened to me correctly, I said I was joking, so I wouldn't really have left it where I suggested that there be smokers on the stage. Well, actually, I was joking. Of course, I also understand that in these theatre games there is a lot to simulate, because I was alone in the play where the main player took off his clothes, instead of using gasoline, he poured water and burned himself. What would happen if I really poured gas and burned myself to get the original instead of a fake? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ensign Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u98	Mr. Sok, you were joking. True, but if we want to remain faithful in the theater now to some dramatic text that includes smoking as an integral part of the term, then we should do just that, build a chamber on stage and this is the nonsense of this text that we have before us. And unfortunately, Mr Marušič, you did not answer whether an intervention in artistic work is possible if such a law is enforced. Whether an intervention in freedom of choice is not only dramatic texts, but also an intervention in the dramatic text itself. Because you say they'll simulate it. I forgive myself if I give you one very banal comparison and everyone else, but that's the reality. For example, French, especially the novelty texts, have, for example, a ten - minute essay among the usual, between the two partners who are dedicated to smoke coming out of a cigarette. Let's say those famous bubbles that come from certain exhaust techniques. And there's some kind of interaction going on that's connected and it's in the service of some sort of event that's very much reversed. And now you're saying to simulate, say, some robot or something bring it there, which, say, doesn't cause these bubbles. So, what is it? Have someone come in from behind to stage it, to mount it, in the theater it's impossible to insinuate this text. I forgive myself if I'm so banal and real. But in reality, theatres and other stage artists will also be able to face such problems. And I don't know if any of the guests, especially the director, the author or anything like that, would be happy to put it all in the exterior because it wouldn't have been given to him in the interior. Is it still the second amendment or the second article, once again - not to bend and speak in general - whether such a law in this place is an intervention in freedom of expression in the field of creative work? Please, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. However, Bosniak Mrs Širca is also involved in the debate, you know for yourself that we cannot force the Secretary of State to debate in the National Assembly. It is a pity, I stress, his right. If, in my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should answer all the questions raised in Parliament. That's what Parliament is for. But as you know, that's the rules of the game. Parliamentary colleague Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! I must say that this government is one of the least flexible governments in this country. You mentioned the convention. I'll be very brief. The convention, but frameworkally, I'm not interested in conventions, and I'm interested in people. Slovenian legislation and the Slovenian Constitution are number one and then conventions arrive. The working ability of an individual either to tell a child or a youth in Slovenia is 15 years old. At 17 he gets a job in a store where tobacco products are sold, among other things. They can't be allowed under this law. When you get to the cash register, you buy a pack of cigarettes, what's that kid gonna do? I'm sorry. I can't. I'm gonna go find another guy who's old enough to sell this to you, and then I'm gonna go back to work. You see, here's the flexibility this government doesn't have. If you are concerned about your youth, I believe that you have accompanied the children's parliament, especially from the ministry you come from, like most Members of this National Assembly, I see that you are all looking at me and you know what I am going to do, which was also the subject of this children's parliament in this house: they were taboos of darkness. You know what three of them were? Drugs, I'm talking about it on purpose, violence in society and sexual abuse. Those three, not tobacco. But when you said methadone, you mentioned it, among other things, it's the only official program of the Ministry of Health to separate people from illicit drugs. The only one! But you can get up and say another thing, official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, will you stick to your established principle or will you cooperate? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u102	Dear Member Zagorac. Let's go in line, and I mentioned the convention, which is why we introduced it. I hope I've had enough arguments here. You can only condemn the Government of inflexibility, but I actually think that this movement is well-intentioned, and I understand the debate, except one or two, that you support the border moving from 16 to 18. Secondly, I can tell you directly that I was also involved with this Parliament in the family, so that I know all the topics. And once again, in fact, what you have pointed out to your parliamentary group, you mention one of the programmes, but there are also other programmes to prevent the use of drugs. The one you mention, however, is included in compulsory health insurance, a low-level program. In addition, we have a detoxification program at the psychiatric clinic, which I hope you are aware of, but is not related to the methadone program. In addition, preventive programmes are implemented at the primary level. In fact, what you say is an extremely expensive programme, and this country is making a significant contribution to this. I admit this, but also in the healthcare sector this programme is recognised as one that reduces the burden of drugs and is also recognised in the health council, the direction was to fit into the health system, and as such it is also accessible. So I hope that with two programmes, in addition to those mentioned by you, which are included in compulsory health insurance, you have been told that we also have others, not just a methadone programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. However, the Member of the Staff has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will not support any of the proposed additions, nor should this be allowed for the freedom of artistic expression in stage art to play or smoke on the open stage. There is a culture or value in the world that smoke is a bad habit and that it is also a habit. Particularly in the developed world, where they have only gradually come to realize that the negative effects and costs of smoking are significantly greater than, as a condition, the benefits of tobacco industry and tax resources. I think that unilaterally defending such a supplement to allowing smoking in stage art is problematic in my opinion. Freedom of artistic expression allows for a changed, perhaps even more pronounced, expression of a work. Smoking on the stage can be expressed more effectively in a different way with appropriate constitutionality. It's just a matter of trying. Perhaps at the present time, however, the technology of virtual reality can be used, which in the case of good simulation can be even more real than smoking itself. I think if mankind didn't know how to smoke, its plurality would certainly be on the same level. The very approach of the law, however, does not allow for virtually any exceptions and any such exception would somehow further stimulate those who would try to violate this law in any way. I think that the point of what some Members have said is that I remember my colleague Janz; that is, the essence of all the pumping or the reasons for adopting such a law, where it is problematic that something is limited, but despite all the knowledge is clear, is that, in fact, all smokers should in some way decide to stop smoking even in this event. I got a brochure in London where on July 1st their smoking ban law will be enforced, similar to our law, where it beautifully says what smokers get in minutes and in days and years if you stop smoking at this moment. Allow me, Mr. President, to read this. After 20 minutes, your blood pressure and heart rate will begin to slow, it is said, towards normal pulse and blood pressure. After 8 hours, the oxygen levels in the blood will return to normal levels. In 24 hours, there will be toxic substances, which say, monoxide, gases are excreted from your body. In 48 hours, your body will be free of nicotine. After 72 hours, your breathing is a little easier and your energy level is somehow increasing. After two to 12 weeks, blood circulation in the body improves, after three to nine months you no longer have coughing and breathing problems or improve, after ten years your chances of getting lung cancer are reduced by half and after 15 years you will only be at the level of us, non-smokers. I quit smoking at primary school because my father once gave me a good beating because I stole his cigarettes because the job was no longer interesting, and then I stopped smoking without any major problems. However, I agree that this personal and psychological problem for a smoker can be a major problem to quit smoking, because smoking is a habit, it is a kind of stimulant, and all that a person gets used to and then, even on occasion, draws him back into this habit, is a problem and quit smoking is not easy. However, I think that society as such, if we pull an analogy when we adopt an asbestos law, where we absolutely wanted to, on the basis of knowledge of science and in this case, in some way address the consequences of the use of asbestos. In this case, it would be fair to be equally consistent and to simply this culture of behaviour, it is said, smoking, which is becoming some kind of deplorable way of acting, to try to eliminate it and the smoking law should also allow it. All the other amendments, it is said, banning sales or smoking in business premises or restaurants, is not disputed, because people can also gather in private houses and have private parties there and can smoke on them if those people make that choice. But if they come to the bar, people who are not in a private and personal relationship can probably not be allowed to do so. So I think that the law as such is very positive and is a very, very nice incentive for all those who smoke that habit, not to say the habit, gradually abandon and especially benefit yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Comrade Steba. And if you'll excuse me, it's just an opinion for an explanation. You said you stopped smoking at primary school. Then when did you start? Thank you very much. Well, I hope you don't mind. A colleague of Boštjan Zagorac spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam President. You took the bet out of my mouth, but it doesn't matter. I have to say that the flyer you read is very interesting, and I believe it works in England. Believe me, try to be a member of the opposition under this government, at least as far as the pressure is concerned, it is definitely not true. But, Mr Secretary of State, let me tell you, but very realistically and honestly - how this law will be implemented when it speaks of a ban on selling and accessing tobacco products to persons under 16 years of age. Let me know how it's going to be implemented. It is inconsistent with another law and is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is definitely a higher legal act than the Convention of the European Union. Let me tell you what it's gonna look like in practice when a 17-year-old guy gets a job in a box like a dealer, and he won't be able to sell a pack of cigarettes to me who's a senior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Thank you, Comrade Potsch. Mr State Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u108	Your Honor! In my opinion, if we're talking about buying, first of all, if there's an application, the one who sells to a minor will be punished accordingly. I'm talking about the whole article, because here's a change in the whole article, we're going from 16 to 18, so they're not going to be able to buy or sell. In the course of the sale, the employer will not put such an option in the workplace where he sells cigarettes or if there is a breach, the inspector will have to respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u110	Dear Secretary of State, but our hits are private, just like the stores. 49. Article 49 of the Constitution states that every free choice of employment is available to everyone under the same conditions and that forced labour is prohibited. How am I supposed to be the employer, the owner of the hit, tell someone that he's going to work, based on what? On the basis of the Constitution? The Constitution is still the highest legal act, not the tobacco law. Let's face it! I'm not supposed to hire a 17-year-old kid on a date because that's what tobacco law says. But the Constitution says otherwise. This is the highest legal act, which is why the law is inconsistent with the Constitution and will receive constitutional opinions. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Excuse me, colleague Homan. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! I support the law itself because, in my firm belief, we have two types of smokers in Slovenia: smokers who exploit society and smokers, I would say, who are faithful to themselves. So I'm going to kind of illustrate it a little bit better. We have smokers who are loyal to themselves and smoke everywhere, so to speak, at home, in cars, in the workplace, on the road, in short, everywhere. And we have those - under the terms - to ourselves or to the society of 'unfair smokers' who exploit society or those who don't smoke. These are the smokers who go out at home and feel sorry for their private property because he says he won't smoke at home because it stinks; the smoker who won't smoke in his car, because it smells like it, and uses smoking in his workplace, uses smoking in bars and uses everything else where he can smoke where he's allowed by the company. And I think it's high time you made an incision here, and that's what this law does. Well, smokers everywhere will be the same. They may not be allowed to smoke at work, they may not be allowed to smoke in society, but they will be able to smoke at home, in their own property and in their own cars. What they're not now. But I feel sorry for the smoker, whom I see in the winter at minus thirty, when all are trembling, and he comes out, and smokes, and you ask him, "Why?" "You know, I'm not going in there because it stinks, but my wife says that..." That's what he says. His property feels sorry for, and the rest he doesn't feel sorry for. The car is also "holy." He prefers to wait in the resting place, to go out, and one of them burns, because he has given him so many thousands of euros because he feels sorry for him, because he knows that he has ashes on the ground, because he knows that he smells, but nothing smells in the workplace. And if we're still looking at productivity, if we're still there -- how much these people who smoke are even less productive than those who have to work on the standard. They have a whole time uncle break but I don't know what, poor worker, whether something has to be made up or if he starts smoking out, he pulls out and he says he's got a "uncle break" to be equal to the rest. And that's why I think this law stipulates that, but whoever wants to smoke has some sort of self-choice where they're going to smoke - where they're going to smoke, that's what they say, at home or in a car; the market will say its own. The innman and the one who wants to make more money will set up a smoking shop, but whoever doesn't, won't. And I think it's written in here and properly arranged. I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate related to Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. However, I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. I'm asking you to report to the debate. We've got one of the advertised discussers. Comrade Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Because of me, he can write anything: that I'm impotent if I smoke anything already! [[....]] Don't write "kill." Killing is death! I'm sorry it's not my fellow Member Majda Potrate who said that it's a passive verb that "killing" means nothing. Don't write "kill," please. He's killing. One more time, "kill." Imagine what that means. It can write anything, it really is, it's not healthy, it can cause impotence, it can harm health, it can cause cancer. It's possible, but it doesn't say "kill." Not to raise a nation in the sense that it says "kill." And once again: don't kill with a word, let alone if you get to the action, please follow the amendment, delete everything that says "kill," and write for me any doctorate you want, any scientific findings. Not to kill with words - From words to actions is only one step!.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this in connection with the inscriptions? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 3 and the amendment of the National Party's Group of Ambassadors. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. I call to the floor the Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. I hope that you, too, will now be involved in this interesting debate with a little more concrete interpretations. The private place, the first word I want to explain it to you, is my private place, if I buy it, people go to it in private space, either smoking or not smoking, is mine. I'm the one who's gonna do this in him, of course, within some of my standards, which I'm gonna want, unless you forbid me in my home apartment or anywhere. The place is private. I paid for it. I don't know how you can forbid me anything on my property, even if it's property by the constitution, I'll say, holy. Economic effects in private restaurants - you follow Europe, Italy, economic effects in Italy, you probably know them, small ones have closed, high prices of drinks have increased by 100%, because smokers are no longer allowed to go to restaurants. These are the economic effects of analyses in Slovenia. What happens to that, you don't. I'll be happy if you show me and tell me I'm wrong. You do not have a simulation in Slovenia and do not say that you have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u117	My friend Zagorac, if you'll excuse me, the place is public space. Even in the case of private property, things are forbidden. Anybody else want to discuss this? Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u118	Look, even if you say so. Why should we not take Europe as a model, to have private places or bars 20, 30 square meters that would be smokers, why not? A warning is given that this is a smoker's place, which is not allowed to smoke in this place, or will not go to anyone who smokes. And I got the answer when I asked that, by the competent government services, "Yes, and then everyone will go to this place!" Yeah, hell, then why this marriage? If anyone wants to have a smoker's place, let them have it! And give him a tax, charge him a tax, or give a tax relief to someone who doesn't want to have a smoker's place. I have a place to choose, I'll go to a smoking place, another one who doesn't smoke, he'll go to places where he doesn't smoke. This is the fundamental constitutional right of people to go where they want to go, and this is a constitutional breach, and we will certainly launch a constitutional review.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Comrade Zagorac, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u120	Not a replica, just an explanation to those who smiled, I can see there were quite a few. I didn't mean just the inn bar, it's not just the inn bar, I could have the place in my house, which is my place, my private space, and there's nothing you can forbid me from in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 10. However, I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. No one wants to discuss it, so the debate is closed. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. We're moving to 11. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A PLANN TRAINING LAW. We have two hours and 50 minutes scheduled for this agenda item. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with Mr Rudolf Mohet, the first to be signed. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u122	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Each path begins with the first step, and so does legislation. We passed our first Law on Mountain Routes with a colleague of the grandson of old in 2004. This was followed by the law in 2005 and by the end of 2005 by the third law that we are considering today. We have pursued the following objectives in this law in particular: the first objective is that the path is of a public nature, which means that with the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia we have determined property so that, without the consent of the owner, no one can have it. This law, however, has preserved that people who walk on mountain roads that are regulated have the possibility of free passage along these mountain paths and landowners have the opportunity to receive reduced cadastral income from the country. The law also has the marking, maintenance and construction of mountain paths, namely, this thing has two objectives: the first is to ensure the safety of the mountains using this infrastructure and the third, to preserve the nature through which these mountain paths flow. The third thing is that we have also protected Knafel's branding and thus preserved part of our cultural heritage; and last but not least, we have also arranged the financial consequences of adopting this law in the sense that, as so far as the state has done, it will help a little in helping the mountaineers through membership with the mountain society to help with donations and so on. It should be said that from the time we addressed the "Grimsov" committee a year and a half ago, we have listened to the committee and we have coordinated with the government team to prepare amendments that are such that the law in the legal and substantive sense of the regulation is enforceable in practice. On behalf of the applicants, I would like to thank Mr Nacet Polajnar of the Ministry of Education and Sport, who coordinated these matters, Mr Marjan Eglić of the Ministry of Environment and Space, who, with legal bruise, helped to rob Mr Tonet Tomšet and Danil Zbriza of the Mountain Union of Slovenia, who helped with expert advice, so that the law will also be feasible in practice, and Mr Sandi Šavli, an expert of the National Assembly, who from the mass sent by the Mountain Association, at least in the first stage regulated a document which was called the Draft Law on Mountain Routes. Finally, I would like to say that we Slovenians can be proud of several laws. The first is the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian Language. Last week, I was in Berlin, and all the presidents of the education committees asked me how we handled this, and I sent them this law. At the same time, we also have a law that we can be proud of, this is the Law on Mountain Guides, which ensures the safe walking of foreigners who come, at the same time speeding up tourism and in the most remote valleys of our country, forgive the expression, also allowing people to become additional employees. We also have before us now, I hope that we will adopt it, respected colleagues and colleagues, with a large enough majority, including this Mountain Route Act. I must say that only, under the terms of the term, were the "banoon ambassadors" engaged with him on 18 November 1933. This is the only document with legal content that regulated the mountain paths. Our national assembly will be the first to handle this matter, and it is likely that our mountaineers at conventions that will be held throughout the Alpine countries will be able to tell us how we have arranged these too. We have, in short, 147 mountain societies that provide about 1,507 roads, thousands of miles long. I want them to take on the law so that we can continue to work with more care. And if we have saved at least one human life by adopting a law, but I am sure that we will have more, this law has achieved its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you, Comrade Moge. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body and I am asking the chairman of the Committee, Mr Mag. Branka Grims to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 24th meeting, on 5 June 2007, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered the Proposal for a Law on Mountain Routes, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members with Mr Rudolf Mohet, the first-signed. This was in fact a second consideration, because for the first time we stopped this treatment, in order to harmonise the text of the drafters and representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Sport and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, so that we could formulate a text in agreement in which there would be as much consensus as possible. This work was actually done, to all those involved, I would also like to express my sincere thanks as Chairman of the Committee, both to the representatives of the ministry and to the proponents, because the negotiations lasted for a long time, were extensive and included mountain organisations, associations, different societies, so that the text, which was eventually drafted, was actually the fruit of a very high degree of consensus. Then, on the committee itself, the debate, which was very creative, very calm and the only topic that we opened up was the question of mountain cycling. In fact, if the text were to remain as originally submitted, this would mean in practice that the day after the implementation of this law should virtually no longer be the place for sport activities of mountain cycling, which is already very developed in Slovenia. It's about thousands of people who are doing this and people are doing it within mountain societies, so we've decided to do it and we've completed the text, so that now it's possible for the manager of the mountain path, that is, the mountain society, to open up part or all of the way for mountain cycling. We have also set a one-year transitional period in which it will be possible to do everything necessary to first carry out a categorisation, to collect all the necessary data and, if we call it, to define, in agreement between ordinary mountaineers who walk on foot - I also judge between them - and, of course, between those who engage in mountain biking, where there will be no greater damage, so that mountain biking can also be carried out there, and, on the other hand, that where there is a sensitive nature, where there is a special protected area, it will be possible to achieve full protection. Because so far it has been, as far as it's concerned, if we say domestically, "free hunting," and we're gonna end this law. This law is therefore not only positive from this point of view because it reflects a very high level of consensus, but because it is also very environmentally oriented; this is said to mean protecting a sensitive mountain nature, while respecting, of course, the different interests encountered in this sensitive area. Once again, thank you very much to all of you who have participated. However, we propose to the National Assembly that the text submitted be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present. Finally he found it back in the House of Representatives of the Law on Mountain Routes, after many intrusives and coordinations it is obvious what we wanted, and mountaineering is an obvious point where Slovenian policy is also coordinated. In New Slovenia, we believe that the law will not immediately solve problems that are open to the use, maintenance, renewal and construction of mountain paths, but will allow these things to be resolved. In Novi Slovenije, it seems important that we resolve the relationship between mountain road managers and landowners where these routes take place. The owners of the land on which the mountain routes are taking place are now involved in regulating and maintaining the mountain routes in a manner appropriate and fair for these owners. We are confident that the owners of the land through which the mountain routes are taking place will also later allow the smooth use, maintenance and labelling of the mountain routes as so far. It is, of course, right to repay them with the tax relief provided for in the law. One of the basic guidelines of the law is the concern for mountain nature, which is with a multitude of built and built mountain paths in Slovenian mountains, which walk, run and drive very many mountains, constantly on trial. On the one hand, therefore, we strive to preserve nature as unspoiled as possible, on the other hand, more and more people's desire to know the mountain world and to experience the beauty of the mountain. We are aware that it is not easy to maintain a balance between the two. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that even in the protection of the mountain world, when it comes to maintaining and marking mountain paths and visiting mountains, it is not possible to explore certain things, such as mountain cycling, mountain running, which brings modern time. It is estimated that it is the right solution for the course and it is important for us to stress when cycling in mountain paths that can be done on roads where cycling does not endanger mountaineers and at the same time does not damage mountain paths. It is right that we leave this issue open by adopting the law, because it is a sensitive subject that requires a sober, professional judgement and if we should already think about how this should be arranged, then we could also say: we see no reason why the biker could not be brought, for example, to the Great Mountain on a mountain road or a road, but it would be extremely unusual, dangerous for him and for other users of mountain roads, if it were to go down a mountain path that could not be transported up because of the difficulty. It happens that bikers use these exact routes to descend, and marital solutions will have to prevent such disruptive driving. There are such polygons for this, not mountain trails. The arranged and marked mountain trails are the first condition for safe and smooth mountain visits. Knafelč's brandation, which will be protected by the adoption of this law, is based on the mountain path. However, it is also important for us to have a uniform labelling after that for the difficulty of mountain routes, which will be entrusted to mountain societies, mountain trail keepers as well as to the country which will have to ensure that we have a uniform and regulated system for marking spatial and mountain routes. This will be an important contribution to the safety of not only the mountaineers, but also tourists who are sent by various tourist agencies, as an additional offer for relaxation. All of this, according to the New Slovenia Group, will also help to increase the safety, respect for the mountain world and greater responsibility on Slovenian mountain roads, despite the increasing number of visitors. In New Slovenia, therefore, we expect that the law will also contribute to a new culture of behaviour and relations in the Slovenian mountains.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill, together with the amendments of the Government and the addition of four parliamentary groups, which preserve the basic solutions of the proposed law and contribute to making these solutions easier in practice, will be supported by members of the Slovenian People's Party. In particular, for the reason that the fairness of private property as a fundamental human right, i.e. the rights of landowners, can only be limited by a specific law, on the basis of Article 33 of our Constitution. Another reason to support the regulation and use of mountain routes by law is because we believe that the protection of our beautiful nature is the duty and accessibility and the right to beauty of an unspoiled nature of the right of every human being. A third reason is to regulate the meaningful use of mountain routes and thus to influence the sustainable development of mountain areas. Mountaining is our national feature, tradition and speciality due to its multitude and natural characteristics of our beautiful mountains and mountains. Surely, we all agree that the experience of nature as specific values is invaluable to the preservation of the cultural and ethical attitude of people towards nature and is one of the foundations of the environmental movement. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we see mountaineering and related activities as an opportunity for additional tourist and thus economic complementary offers in remote areas, in a rural area where people find it difficult to survive due to difficult natural conditions. The bill states that mountain paths are of a public nature. The identification, construction and maintenance of mountain routes, the selection and funding of custodians, and not least the reduction of cadastral income for landowners on which mountain routes are taking place, are also appropriate. It is also appropriate for us to find a compromise solution taken by the committee in its amendment to the law that, at the proposal of the mountain path guardian, the Minister responsible for sport should determine by which mountain route, subject to the limitations, a possible mountain bike ride, which was considered in the original dictatorship that these sporting activities could no longer be carried out. It is because of these facts that, as has already been said, we will support this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you, too. Mr Rezman will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, so far we have heard quite a bit of excitement about the law that has been prepared, and I can say that the DeSUS Group will also support this law, especially because it follows the fundamental goals and principles that were set out years ago, and because, since the original radical rejection by the Government, this initial proposal has changed into something that we all seem to agree on and we see that, in the interests of reality, political ambitions can also be reconciled. This proposal is supported, probably because we are all aware that even in Slovenia there is an increasing number of hiking, mountaineering, more and more people who value nature, both flora and fano, who appreciate a healthy lifestyle and who also realize that all of this needs to be preserved. But more than this hike, sometimes it is on Triglav or on a similar mountain as on a mush of streets in major cities, so such burdens are already taking place; therefore, more than these visits, there is also a need for rational and prudent regulation of all regulatory acts, and this bill brings this. The problems have also arisen with a number of ownership-related threats, and this has been regulated in this area, at least it seems, slightly better than in the area of hunting, for example. There seems to be more embarrassment about ownership than in the area of the law that talks about mountain routes. There has been more and still a need for maintenance and related costs. When the proposal signed by the Members came to the hearing for the first time in 2005, and let me mention that it was signed by three members of the coalition group, although the opposition was the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the opposition. At that time, it was said that the objectives and principles were correct, but that the implementation was such that the law was completely inconsistent, that it did not take into account the small, read new mountain societies, that it did not take account of the relationship between mountain societies and mountain communities, and that it would impose even some costs on the State which it would not be able to, even though it was possible, I think for 9 million or 10 million Slovenian tollers at that time; that is, for indeed, banal amounts. After a month, i.e. immediately after the rejection, a group of Members, then reduced by two coalition Members, once again tabled this law, slightly supplemented, corrected, and with essentially the same principles, with the same ciliium, the coordination process began. We can say thank God, this year, which is now behind us, a good year has passed in good cooperation, ready by the Government to make compromises. It has to be said that today the Law has 47 articles, but it has been supplemented by 50 by the Government, but this form of entropy has also been able to harmonise the amendments almost. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we are pleased to maintain this public nature of the route, of course, of the mountains, that we will allow the implementation of various types of sports activities in the mountains, of course with the necessary restrictions, and that, as well as the law, the Government or the state budget, together with the municipal budgets, will also contribute some means of maintaining and also building new mountain paths. So our Group of Members, the DeSUS Group, will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected council, a respected representative of the government. The proposal of the Mountain Routes Act, which has been repeatedly tabled by 31 signatories in more or less the same text in the legislative procedure, has not as long as an interesting and varied course of substantive design as determined by the proponents, professions, legislative and legal services, the public concerned, the Mountain Association and its individual associations, mountain rangers and mountain bikers. Both the Government and the labour force have identified in previous procedures that the initial proposal for a law does not solve fundamental issues despite the good intentions of the bill-maker, who has been properly defined, with the right objectives. In our parliamentary group, we have supported in principle the proposed law since the beginning, but we are aware that with the initial solutions proposed, it would not be possible to achieve all the objectives and good intentions necessary to resolve the technical, spatial, security, property and other issues related to the problem of mountain routes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we welcome both the will and the Government's commitment and the understanding and cooperation of the law's proponents to seek, in a patient and open dialogue, together with the public concerned, good solutions that have been adopted on the home labour body, thereby correcting the proposed content in an appropriate manner and complementing it so that there is no doubt and uncertainty in the implementation of the law. The proposed law provides for, inter alia, a clearer definition of mountain routes, its purpose, the rights and duties of users and guardians of mountain routes, the rights and duties of owners and, in particular, the calculation of the land area through which the mountain routes are taking place, and the recording of the actual use of these land in the land cadastra, which will form the basis for the exemption of taxes and other charges on this area. Next. Marking and equipping of mountain paths and, in this regard, also the procedures required, the tasks performed by mountain communities in the public interest; areas of maintenance of mountain paths; prohibition of the construction of mountain paths, in particular due to protected agricultural land, forests and the exceptions recorded. Appropriate protection of wild animals and the possibility of permanent and temporary closures of mountain paths; restrictions on the use of mountain routes for mountain bikers and other means of transport with certain exceptions; exemption from compensation and other contributions for construction, maintenance, marking of mountain paths because they are public and other activities. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group actively participated in the search for solutions at the time of the creation of the proposed law's substantive additions. We have carefully studied proposals and initiatives of the interested public, both mountaineers, mountaineers, mountain societies, the Mountain Federation of Slovenia, the Kolesar Association of Slovenia and landowners and local communities. In a direct discussion with the representatives of the Kolesar Association of Slovenia, we also supported a solution that allows riding with mountain bikes under certain conditions. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that good work has been done in the final drafting of the proposed law, both by the Government, the proposers, the parliamentary groups and the interested public, despite the seemingly long-term process and at the initial stage of conflicting positions in the search for the best solutions. In our Group of Members, we believe that it contains a proposal for a law that is the most optimal solution. The adoption of the law provides such a good legal basis for the sustainable development of mountain activities, hiking, recreational mountain cycling and the development of mountain areas in general, which is also invaluable for maintaining people's cultural and ethical attitudes towards nature. For all of this, we will also support the proposed amendments of the coalition groups in the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposed Mountain Routes Act and all proposed amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you, too. Only Bevk will give his position to the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Mountain Routes Act. Finally, the current final proposal of the law of December 2005 was signed by nine of our Members and Members. Otherwise, the bill has a long-standing beard that goes back to the previous term of office of the National Assembly. At that time, the hearing prevented time pressure from the 2004 state-run elections. Indeed, the proposal signed by 29 Members and Members, of whom only one of the coalition groups was a coalition group, experienced a major intervention by the Government and the competent home committee during these 19 months, but that is no reason to reject it. If I'm not mistaken, only one article of 47 remained intact. In Slovenia we have more than 7,000 kilometres of mountain roads, some of which are more than a hundred years old, which in one way or another connect 170 high-rise, medium-mountain mountain huts, shelters and bivouacs. Mountain stands in Slovenia according to some data are visited by a million and a half visitors. Above all, they are members and members of 247 mountain societies, bringing together more than 60,000 members. It is therefore essential that this area also be regulated by law. I hope that the multi-annual efforts of the signatories of the law will be realized this year. With the change in the social policy system and the constitutional category, where the right to private property is guaranteed, hikers from the 1990s often began to face various constraints, obstacles placed and placed by landowners. Thus, the law provides that mountain paths are of a public nature, where the rights and obligations of users and custodians of these routes and landowners through which mountain routes are made are precisely defined. The law was coordinated with a number of partners, since it is a law of the Members, especially with the Government, then with the Mountain Union of Slovenia and many other interested organisations, local communities and individuals, and recently also with representatives of the Kolesar Association of Slovenia. Finally, on the parental committee, the debate focused mainly on marking and equipping mountain routes, categorising mountain paths, and most of the restrictions on the use of mountain routes in connection with mountain cycling. The solution now set out in Article 32, paragraph 3, that, subject to the limitations laid down in the law, mountain bikes are permitted on that mountain path as defined by the competent Minister for Sport on the proposal of the mountain route manager, is acceptable to us. But it is true that we had different views about this, and in the end the view prevailed that it was better if things were regulated and not left to the procession, especially because the Mountain Association of Slovenia agreed on this, as the tour of cycling was also recorded in its activities in the Statute, which is one of the forms of mountain biking. Dearly beloved, the law will certainly be incorporated into the rich history of Slovenian mountaineering, which celebrates 114 years of organised activity this year. The roads were once made from the lifeline of the inhabitants of the hill and mountain world. Today these are mainly mountain routes, which are very mass-oriented for recreation, sport and tourism, and for many other activities. The law is well regulated by an area that has not now been regulated, so we will support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you, too. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Good-bye. Mountaineering, or mountaineering, has played an important national leadership role in the history of Slovenia, as it has stimulated national consciousness. With organized mountaineering, our ancestors also fought against foreign mountain expansionism. We can justifiably claim that mountaineering has also helped to shape the Slovenians of the nation into a nation of our own. Today, mountaineering has a completely different role, especially this is an excellent way of recreation that strengthens the body and the spirit, while mountaineering with alpinism is an important element of our country's tourist offer today. The development of the mountains in the last century has developed a purely specific infrastructure that has enabled and enabled mountaineering as a recreational and sporting activity. The most important part of this infrastructure is the mountain paths. For them, two are particularly significant: they have been created in the same way and their status has never actually been regulated legally. And since mountain paths are one of the factors of mountain security and constitute an intervention in a sensitive, medium- and high-mountain environment, the time has come for a normative regulation of this area. The legislative initiative has been taken by our fellow Members. In cooperation with the Mountain Association of Slovenia, they prepared a quality proposal for a law which also had no substantive comments by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, however, the Government has not proved itself to be an expedient partner in this legislative project. More than a year and a half have passed since the beginning of the second reading of the draft law on the Home Committee, since the Government was in no way able to decide on certain key solutions to the bill when preparing its amendments. For a considerable period of time, the government has assessed that the proposed solution to the regulation of relations with landowners, which is summarised in the current forest law, constitutes an exercise of ownership right. That is why we are so much more pleased that finally the government amendments adopted at the meeting of the home committee have preserved the basic solution of the bill's proposal that landowners will be exempt from the payment of income on the basis of the fact that the mountain routes are of a public nature on the surface of the mountain roads. This represents compensation for landowners because they have to suffer walking on their land. The only difference is that the government amendments were in line with the new Real Estate Registration Act. At the same time, the records will be kept within the spatial information system at the Ministry of Environment and Space and in the land cadastra as barren land. Since the land cadaster is directly linked to the land book, the landowner will be exempt from this duty for this area. At the LDS Club, we also welcome some other improvements to the legal text, although we feel that the system is exposed in some parts too complex and knows a lot of mountain society, the custodian is causing a lot of commotion. We are disappointed, however, that the Government has not agreed to legal financing for the exercise of custody from the state budget. The law only provides that financial resources may also be obtained from state and municipal budgets. The Mountain Union of Slovenia and mountain societies - the custodians will, in spite of the financial evaluation of the annual work programme adopted, be specially left to the state or ruling coalition and individual municipalities when adopting state and municipal budgets. Such a solution is difficult to understand. It is also due to the fact that it is indeed a minimum financial resource that should be considered a State contribution to the maintenance of important public recreational and tourist infrastructures. However, the Government, with its amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent committee, also assumed responsibility for the successful establishment and operation of the system of construction, maintenance and labelling of mountain routes. At the LDS, we will support the proposal of the law in the hope that the legal provisions will not be too difficult to live in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments of 19.6. I am thus putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS. I'm asking you to report to the debate. There is no debate and that is why I am concluding it. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? No, no, no. I then put to the debate Article 47 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We conclude the debate and hereby inform you that we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. And now we're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on hospitality. We have two hours and 45 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council and would therefore give the floor to a representative of the Government who is not. I ask the Members present, shall we suspend the meeting until they join us, or shall we continue and move on? Then I will ask the President or Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Willi Rezman, who is not. I'll abort the assembly in five minutes, we'll resume it in 10 minutes, we'll resume it at 1:00 and 40 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u138	Dear Member, Members, representatives of the Government, we are continuing with the earlier adjourned meeting. We are at the 12th item of the agenda, this is in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act. Now we have representatives of the government and the vice-president of the committee. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u139	President, thank you so much for your word. Allow me to briefly present the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on hospitality. Let me also say the novelty of the proposed amendment is the addition of the Hostages Act, the abolition of all the decisions that are now necessary to carry out the hospitality activity, which will facilitate the entry into service and thus encourage entrepreneurship. Another novelty is the possibility that guests will be able to sell individual products that are otherwise included in their hospitality offer, such as dry meat products, bottled wine, coffee, juices and the like, without special registration for commercial activities. The local community will be able to adopt an act defining the period of the day during which catering activities outside the restaurant will be allowed during the tourist season. The conditions for carrying out the activities of natural persons' paralegals will be improved. In addition to the above-mentioned suspensions of decisions, the requirement regarding the duration of the operation is simplified. Instead of registering the conciliators that will be terminated, natural persons will be reregistered in the Business Register of Slovenia at AIPES. It is also a new provision that will allow the management of paramours in masonry and thus the integration of untapped capacity into the hospitality offer so far. In order to develop a hospitality offer on farms, it is important to amend the proposed law relating to the pursuit of activities outside the farm and the employment of employed workers. Farmers will also be able to perform hospitality activities at events related to the presentation of rural areas or traditional customs. In order for such activities to not be produced and to become unfair competition for the guests, the farmer will only be allowed to offer meals and drinks from the domestic environment. Since it is not possible to carry out a hospitality activity on the farm as an additional employment activity of the employed workforce, the proposal contains the possibility of carrying out this activity on the basis of registration under the terms of the Company Act, of course, taking into account all restrictions on the scope of the activity and the conditions for carrying out the activity or offer contained in the rules in the field of carrying out the complementary activity on the farm. For a short time, so much for content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you, too. The draft law, as previously said, has also treated the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask Mr Willy Rezman, Vice-President of the Committee, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Secretary of State presented in the grave, or framework, of the draft law on which it is referred; that is, the guise law, the amendments and additions to this law, of course, and it was decided that the Committee on the Economy was the working body dealing with this bill. For consideration, written material was sent to the members, namely the draft law, the opinions of the Legal and Legislative Services, the proposal by the Chamber of Commerce and the letter transmitted by the Commission to the small economy and tourism of the State Council and the amendments of the coalition groups of Members. All of these also participated and actively participated in the discussion at the home work body, and a representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia was also involved. Above all, there has been a debate around two Articles 6 and 8 concerning certain provisions which, according to an assessment of one part of the economy, may be problematic because they can promote unfair competition. It is interesting that part of the economy in the interest of the economy supported this amendment and the second part, which was involved in this in the opposite sense, was also part of the Slovenian economy, namely the Ministry of Economy. We can see, however, that different positions are also being broken in the interests of the economy, which was also very noticeable at this meeting. The amendment, which mainly mentions that there should be no summary of other domestic and purchased beverages on farms in the context of the complementary activity. Although he received support from representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, as well as representatives of the Council of State and the Chamber of Commerce and the work of the members of the Committee, but not of the majority. So most of them didn't convince this amendment. The government argued the rejection of the amendment by: firstly, it aims to promote the development of hospitality and tourism in order to promote the development of these industries, in particular those areas which are less developed, i.e. in rural areas. She argued that there were no data to talk about the excessive abuse of those provisions, which had already been in force. And she felt it was right that this accelerated inspection which she was talking about continued in the future, so that the inspection was sufficient. Since there was a considerable debate on whether or not the amendment should be supported, a third version of the amendment was also presented, a compromise version which went in the direction to be recorded and made public by hanging in a room where additional products may be offered by someone on a farm with additional guest activity. So this amendment was also under consideration and it was not adopted. The amendment to Article 6 referred to the expansion of the possibility of conjugalism. These are extensions to non-residential facilities which must otherwise be authorised. There were different views here, too. Some supported this enlargement, some others did not, but in the end it was decided that it was necessary to make this something that would encourage faster development of hospitality and conjugalism. And when this amendment was adopted, all other articles of the proposed law were also adopted. And such an amended law has sent the Economic Committee for further consideration, among which we will be present today at this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honorable representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The 1995 Inns Act was last completed with a novel two years ago. The law now in force lays down a number of preconditions and bearer obligations, as is the case with other economic activities. The proposal follows the aim of simplification in the area of hospitality and the promotion of the development of entrepreneurship. Such a proposal leaves, in particular, the obligation to obtain decisions to be obtained by natural persons, independent entrepreneurs, individuals and legal persons prior to the commencement of the hosting activity. The proposal is, in fact, equivalent to other economic activities. The removal of unnecessary administrative barriers and the promotion of the development of entrepreneurship is undoubtedly very positive. During the market economy, it is necessary to provide a free economic initiative, providing only the necessary conditions that bring consumer protection. For the development of hospitality activities, and in particular for the promotion of a particular guest in Slovenia or our country in general, when it comes to foreign guests, it is a welcome provision allowing the guest to sell individual products included in an offer without a specific registration of the business. In practice, it is likely primarily for domestic food and specialities that are characteristic of a particular inn or place in which it operates or carries out its activities. From the point of view of greater flexibility, it is also appropriate to abolish the decision-making process prior to hosting when it comes to carrying out this activity outside the inn, for example at public events or during the tourist season in the city's sailboats or ski resorts. In particular, it is worth noting that this does not change the conditions for hosting activities, which will be supervised by the competent inspection bodies in the future. Among the other changes introduced by the Law Amendments, let us mention in particular the new 15a. Article of the Hostages Act, which allows a farmer who carries out a hospitality activity on a farm as his complementary activity to carry out this activity outside the farm. Of course, out-of-farm catering activities are limited to events related to rural presentation or traditional events and, however, the offer can only relate to meals and drinks from the local environment. We believe that such arrangements will make it easier for a variety of farmers to present their activities and, in particular, their specific culinary products at various events. This is certainly the best promotion of the place from which such a farmer comes. We consider the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party Group as very good and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I think it's one of the first laws of this government, which is true to him, at least when we look at him or read him, you can't argue. This is a law that, in fact, I will say, brings liberalisation in the area of the development of hospitality and tourism, especially in rural areas, and we all know that this is mainly about the development of those regions that are less developed. Finally, something can happen in the countryside and not all in the city’s centres, although it also brings a certain liberalisation for the guests. However, well-intentioned warnings or well-intentioned comments that you may or may not take into account, new jobs on farms, we have heard, you will also introduce or prepare, I will say, liberalisation of these. It is also, I think it is right to introduce this, but on the other hand it is necessary to look at a smaller difference, even though we wrote that it goes according to the ZGD, what is this difference between the complementary activity, p.p. or d.o.o. In particular, I am referring here to the supervision of this complementary activity. I think that this control should be established, and it is right to allow this when it is really necessary, and I will be evil concrete - for those farmers of tourism who really want it. However, on the other hand, today, I think that two points back, we have dealt with a law that no longer liberalises the development of hospitality and tourism, at least in my opinion. This was the so-called tobacco law, but it will only prohibit someone from entering or allowing a place, but it will be limited in there. And here this disagreement between the individual segments of the government comes particularly close to the expression but, as already said, the law before us, not the law behind us, in the Slovenian National Party we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u147	Well, we in the DeSUS Group will also provide votes for this law, especially because we support development in society, because it is small, but it contributes to greater opportunities for economic development, greater opportunities for additional employment and, as a result, to improving the quality of life. We estimate that development cannot be limited only to the resolution mega-projects that we consider in millions of euros, but that these mega-projects must somehow be complemented by smaller projects, with individual promotion instruments, with individual measures, with certain development incentives and with the elimination of individual barriers that are on the way to faster development. And since Slovenia places tourism at the forefront of development, because it also has, of course, substantial comparative advantages and untapped market opportunities and even some niches, it is clear that, as far as power and correct, it is necessary to support the development of hospitality, without which, of course, tourism is not and, of course, is not. The proposal goes in two directions: for the first time in the direction of eliminating unnecessary and duplicative administrative and other administrative obstacles and in the direction of encouragement through individual liberalisation measures, as regards farms and complementary activities in and outside catering facilities. So it also allows additional guest activities at individual events, in individual places, in locations where they could not otherwise do so. It allows for a greater offer in the field of housing. We promise ourselves, there will probably be no dramatic changes, no new job and no reduction in the grey economy - however. As a result, we could also count on a possible negative demographic trend in these rural areas to be reduced in order to reduce the demographic outflow. Personally, it seems important to our group that the law also takes account of local differences. There are no conditions of employment for catering, for housing, for the development of tourism, i.e. the economy everywhere. It is important that this law allows the local community to actively manage the various economic and other flows, the offer to limit them when it seems necessary to restrict them, and that it can also encourage them by the measures it has at its disposal on the basis of an act which the local community must adopt. Just for example, it is not possible to simply compare the guest offer in Ljubljana with that in Goriška or, I don't know, in Suhi krajina. And this law allows this flexibility, this flexibility to local communities or local community bodies empowered to give consent. When it comes to removing obstacles, when it comes to encouraging hospitality and other activities, when it comes to allowing for the elimination of these local differences, and when it comes to the local community also having the possibility of correcting individual decisions, because it can give individual powers as a way of withdrawing them, then we think that this is a law worthy of support, and therefore our group also provides it with this support despite the concerns that are also correct at 6th and 8th, but we believe that it is more important to give weight to development incentives than to restrictive measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! I hope to state that one of the many proposals for amendments and additions that the current government and the National Assembly are trying to remove are pointless administrative obstacles. One of these is certainly the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on hospitality. The amendment proposes that a farmer who carries out a catering activity on his farm as his complementary activity may also carry out this activity outside his farm, but only at events related to the presentation of rural areas or traditional customs, such as martinis. In order not to create this solution in the performance of such activities as unfair competition for the guests, the proposal of the law provides that a farmer may only carry out such activities under conditions other than those applicable to innkeepers and offer only food and drink from the domestic environment. It is further proposed that, under certain conditions, farmers should be able to employ employed labour and carry out this activity not only on the farm but also at events related to the presentation of rural areas or traditional customs. Individuals, independent entrepreneurs and legal persons will no longer have to obtain decisions in administrative units before they enter into the inn, as proposed by law. This applies both to decisions laying down conditions for catering activities outside the inn establishment, public events, fairs and the like during their duration, such as during the tourist season in the city's sails, swimming pools, ski resorts and the like, as to decisions to meet the conditions for catering activities in the inn, in the courtyards and in the farms. The conditions for hosting the inn are not changing and will have to be met in the future, which will be supervised by the competent inspection bodies. It is also proposed that instead of the special register that will be terminated so far, the conciliators can register in the business register of Slovenia with the Agency for Public Records and Services, which will reduce their administrative burden. As has already been said, the proposal of the law therefore brings an end to the many pointless administrative obstacles that have been in place so far, and thus enables all those who want to do so to carry out their hospitality activities, as the proposal of the law also defines them. As far as the amendment is concerned, we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In any case, we will support the content of the Amendment and the completion of the Hostage Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you, too. Mr Ferri Horvat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you. I was surprised to get here so quickly. Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We support the bill in the Social Democrats' Group. We think it is appropriate and wise to remove unnecessary or rigid obstacles both to the work of innkeepers and to carry out tourism activities as well as complementary activities in farms, in rural areas. This can mean an additional source of income and will mean lifting these restrictions, in fact reducing costs on the one hand and, on the other hand, in our opinion, encouraging action. As has already been said in the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy and also in the debate, the two issues were, above all, the most discussed both on the Committee and elsewhere. One matter is also referred to the amendment tabled. We are thinking about this by extending and increasing the liberalisation of the surrender of rooms, that this is an appropriate matter, by asking a question that has already been mentioned, what is not a valid permit, or where certain problems may also arise for the benefit of those services. Of course, it is primarily the responsibility of the competent authorities of the local community to regulate matters in such a way as to avoid problems or even abuse. As far as the farm is concerned, I think it makes sense that farmers can also sell their crops at various events and other places, not only on their own farm. And, on the other hand, I think that the arrangement and the requirement of the Chambers was to prohibit or have a restrictive attitude towards selling farmers only their crops and products, that this is too narrow, too. What someone who has a well-developed activity has a market, has a demand, does not have enough of these own products, but has the same quality and equivalent products, and I see no reason not to sell them. However, it may be reasonable to accept here the amendment proposed by the LDS in order, on the basis of the permit it receives to carry out this complementary activity, including on the basis of products and crops it buys from others, to be marked in a visible place in the farm itself dealing with tourism, which would ultimately be in the interest of better information for consumers or tourists coming there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you, too. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! In the LDS Club, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the hospitality law, as we see in particular an additional attempt by the proposer to reduce and remove administrative obstacles and in this way also allow for a better, simpler economic activity in this area. In particular, three things are likely to be highlighted, namely: the conditions for the commencement of catering activities are being simplified, the conditions for keeping records for the conduct of the natural person's housekeeping are being simplified, and it is somewhat questionable or dangerous in an article where restrictions on employment are being removed, it is appropriate to point out the care of adequately qualified personnel, but it is estimated that the benefits of removing the administrative barriers already mentioned above are greater than the risks that may arise from this title. However, we were skeptical in the LDS about the possibility of selling the drinks and other foods bought, not as much because of the same possibility as the actual situation, which is now being applied in practice. I also agree that the absolute ban is probably not the right solution, so we have proposed a compromise amendment in which we allow this option, with the consent of the local community, but we want farmers' tourism, which can sell the drinks they buy and other domestic food, to make this clear in their premises. Why? Because in this way we want to contribute to the reduction of possible unfair competition for other guest establishments operating under substantially stricter conditions. For, as we say, it goes - and we come from a real state, because we estimate that control in this area is not the most effective, and we fear that abuse will then occur or we are confident that if this amendment is adopted, abuse will be significantly less. At no point does this amendment limit the scope and potential of this complementary activity or the extension of the complementary activity on farms by the proposer. This is why, of course, we support the law as it is said, and we also propose confirmation of the amendment tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much. And colleague Martin Mikolič will become the position of the Ambassador of Nova Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! We have been in the New Slovenia Group until now, and we will continue to support all those solutions that actually simplify certain procedures, certain laws. Those solutions, which are the removal of certain administrative obstacles, and certainly this law, the amendment of the law that we are considering today, lead to these solutions, because it greatly simplifies the procedure for the initiation of the hosting activity. Surely we also think it is a very good solution that in those farms dealing with the so-called complementary activity, real farmers will be able to carry out their activities at various events in the future. However, we believe that it is very important that they not only sell their products there, but that they will be able to sell products and drinks from the local environment at these events, which means that the other farmers can, I would say, cooperate indirectly with them. The local communities are given certain new powers, as local communities will give their consent to participate or to carry out these activities at various events. We also hope, somehow, that if there are more offers or offers, which is likely to be, in fact, that the local community or, after all, the mayor himself will play this decisive role, but certainly, the one who prepares the event on the basis of competition, on the basis of quality and ultimately on the basis of the price of the offer at some events. It will also be possible for new innkeepers to sell individual products included in their inn offer without a special registration for trading activities. This seems very important to us, it has certainly not been so far. However, if I say, maybe even this solution will lead to, or help to, some Sunday there will be a merchant, a mother at home, not to work in the store, because it will actually be possible, if, of course, the guests choose to do so, they will also, I would say, have, even the most urgent food or drink that maybe sometimes on Sunday someone needs it, they will be able to buy it there - at least so we consider - at a price similar to that of the store. It simplifies the limitation on the duration of the activity for conciliators, for natural persons, so that this applies only to the overall period of reception of guests and no more than it has now been, is to a common period or a three-month period. It removes the duplication of records, since there will be no register of conciliators, only mandatory entry into the Business Register of Slovenia with the Agency for Public Administrative Records and Services remains. In New Slovenia, we support such hospitality solutions that encourage the development of entrepreneurship and remove administrative obstacles to the start of activities. In this way, we want to contribute to the greater integration of farmers into the hospitality offer and to improve the quality and diversity of the offer for tourists. We must be aware that hospitality and tourism work hand in hand, and we are pleased to be able to contribute to legal improvements in this area through the adoption of the new law on hospitality. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group we will also support the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much. With the presentation by our colleague Mikolić, we have concluded the set of presentations on the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19.6. I am thus putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. I'm asking you to report to the debate. We have five panellists registered, first member Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. So once again, what I predicted was already in the opening statement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not support this proposal or amendment tabled by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Why? Much justification could be drawn from this, but all together would be too much of what we call unfair competition. In this sense and in this spirit, the proposal for amendments to the Custody Act has followed certain desires and actual needs and has defined this precisely in a sufficiently broad context. If we were to accept this amendment, in our view the damage would be done mainly to the host, the inn and, of course, neither those who perform complementary activities on the farm nor those who are currently engaged in catering. It is essential, however, that those who carry out the hospitality activity and have a registered complementary activity on the farm are, however, equivalent and equal in the proposed amendments, laid down in Article 8. As has already been said, we will not support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it seems to us to break this proportion, which is precisely defined in the proposal for an amendment law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you, too. Member Milan Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you, President. First of all, say hello to the Secretary of State, who meets us for the first time in this Chamber. He is lucky to be in a relatively unrequited marriage and not yet in the real trials. I hope he gets something tougher as soon as possible. The amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy was created, as has already been said, on the basis of a debate at the Committee on the Economy in which, we must say, the Liberal Democracy has proposed a more resilient option, i.e. the deletion of the whole paragraph, because we considered that paragraph to be inappropriate and that it allows for too much abuse. Later in the debate, which was correct and must be said to be interesting, we modified this amendment with Mr Slavinac's proposal by adding to this text, which already applies, which in fact changes only the one who gives consent to or conducts this activity, so we complement that such a decision must be given at the appropriate place and specify what and how food and drink can be sold. From the words of Mr Marinič, who, at least in my opinion, pointed out that the SDS Members would not support the amendment, of course, this word "scientific" already meant that, because it had been tabled by the LDS, they would not support it, which I am sorry. So, it is not the LDS text, it must be the text of consensus of all who are aware of the consequences of such behaviour in the event that we allow a business that has many pitfalls in our opinion, much of the chakra and is too open and too much of the doubt leaves behind. Why? I'll try to justify this further. In the debate on the Committee, it was said that different countries, different countries, are working on such tourist farms in such a way that, I would say, it is the intention of everyone to offer food and drink from or from the environment in which such a tourist farm operates. And it would be normal for all of us to realize that. Unfortunately, in Slovenia some do not realize this and there is a lot of abuse when selling food that does not come from this environment on tourist farms, and especially a drink that does not really come from this environment. And if you can order gin tonic on a tourist farm, I don't know who you can convince in this room that it's a drink from this environment. And that's where it was meant to be. So, these radical violations and abuses of such a liberal law, such an open law, we wanted to prevent this amendment from making it impossible, therefore, to offer what does not really belong in this place. If I illustrate with a Slovenian case, we all know where the yota belong, and we offer this jota cheerfully all over Slovenia, and we are surprised that we eat it both at Pohorje or at the seaside end. There is probably a premurska movement on a tourist farm in Primorska. This was, therefore, intended to locate something that belonged to this environment in that area. And I think that we would do more services and a better service to the guests, especially tourism, than that we would allow so simply through Prešeren to use and offer everything. In this respect, we also reach out to competition. The fact is that some of the explanations have been discussed by the Committee on the Economy in this way, so when we allow these options to be offered by these products, it allows some areas that are lagging behind or needing, I would say, a developmental impulse, to be given the opportunity, where there is no inn where there are no larger inn, to offer this as an argument that when a tourist gets there, he will have the opportunity to get what he cannot get anywhere else on such a tourist farm. That's possible. And I believe that those proposers who think in this way, in their environment, where there are no major establishments, are justified in taking care of the development of this area. However, I hardly know and do not know that in the Slovenian space it would be so radical that they would not be relatively in the small time range or the kilometre range available to one and the other. For this reason, I think that we are giving only solace to those who should, for the first time, pay equivalent taxes, and in this case we are faced with inadequate and unfair taxation. Thus, there is a inn operating in an area which can decide to apply a relief or 25% relief of the standard costs, because it belongs to this category of activity, but on the other hand there is a farmer who applies this as an additional activity and in this case pays 70 per cent or has a 70 per cent relief of the standardisation of costs and is no longer the same on the scale. And that's one of the problems that arise. Secondly, the fact is - this is also illustrated by the case of Pohorje, which, believe me, I know very precisely - that on one side of the road we have a guest establishment, on the other hand we have such a farm offering something that does not belong there, and that competition is literally for this inn which has to meet different duties and different conditions for guest activity, and this does not create conditions for the equal treatment or operation of these entities. And if we want to stick to it at least a little bit, we have proposed this amendment, which therefore continues the text, which is already in law and text, so does not delete, with which we leave the local community to determine more precisely what such a guest could offer in this environment. And it seemed to us that this should not be disputed even for the coalition, even though it was an opposition amendment. And I think it would be wise to do that. Koroška, for example, is a typical example of a province in which they do not have their own production of wine, such as Gorenska. And it is clear to me that in this area they can offer Slovenian wine from all over Slovenia, but it is not clear to me why they will be able to offer, I don't know, malvasion from Dalmatia or a swimmer from Macedonia; this is how they do it. I conclude because my colleague Juban reminds me that we only have three minutes left. I'm sorry! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you very much. In New Slovenia, however, we do not think that these amendments to the hospitality law are as liberal as some have presented in the positions of the parliamentary groups. It is true, however, that these changes eliminate some of the pointless or allow tourist farms working at home in catering activities, that they can do so even at events that remind them of the countryside, with various offers such as, say, the Exerciser or the Goodies of Ptuj, and that they can also serve food and drink there if they also have it registered at home. They can only serve food and drink from the home environment. This seems to me to be an additional offer in tourism, including an additional culinary offer and we welcome these changes. However, we do not support the LDS amendment, because, as it is said, the changes are escalating red tape and nonsense, which is not followed by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much. And Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listened attentively to Comrade Friday, he actually explained why this amendment should not be supported. And I am very interested in the opinion of his fellow Member, Mr Juban. Indeed, this matter that we are changing today is not new. This has already been carried out in the previous term and even now. We've changed marriage once before, and I don't know why it's not there. It seems to have been forgotten for a moment. Now, on a specific case, I would like to explain to you why, in fact, this change is taking place. I heard in the position, one of the MPs, that there was no control. It's surveillance, you know, and there's a lot of control. So you all know the exhibition The Good Farms on Ptuj. This is the largest exhibition in Slovenia, every year. And at this exhibition, farmers who have this activity registered as a complementary activity could be the real processing, the production of these different breads, then meat products, not to mention, could display it but could not legally sell it at this exhibition. And because of this, the organizer had trouble, because someone wasn't willing to show up, and at the same time, he didn't deserve anything that he couldn't sell. And that's why these efforts have been to loosen it up, to loosen it, and by this law today this is essentially changing. I have given a practical example that the public will also understand what we are talking about. Because it was pointless that someone could have exhibited it, the visitors looked at it, but when they said where I could buy it from you, he said no here today, come to me in Koroška, to my farm, and then you could buy it. And what is the point of these exhibitions and complementary activities on farms? Not that the farmer sells on his farm, as you said "gin tonic", if I understand both Coca-colo and so on, but that he sells the products that he manufactures himself, but by allowing him to sell some of the drinks he buys - what he cannot produce. He can't produce it himself, at least in our environment, no coffee, at least raw coffee has to buy it and then he can't self-produce Radenski himself, and some non-alcoholic drink is allowed to him, at least that's how it used to be when I was working in the inspection, and I think it's still like that. And then he's offering this offer on his farm. Here you were also told that you were concerned about some additional employment. A farmer cannot be employed by one who performs an agricultural activity as a basic agricultural activity and registers an additional activity. If you want to hire, fellow LDS, then you'll register differently. It must then be otherwise registered and kept in the register for the purpose of paying taxes and so on. So there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. And what is this change? Of course, we're all right, it's in a sense competition for the hospitality industry. But competition to the catering industry to create conditions for the conservation of the countryside, not to destroy our inn, which are just registered as s.p. and carry out this activity in such a way, but to be able to create some additional earnings in the countryside in order to give some additional opportunity to farmers. And so it's organized everywhere if you go to Austria, if you go to Italy or any other country. And unfortunately for a few years, we're late on this matter, and in all these years, there's been a lot of damage. Now somewhere strictly stuck to it, and they specifically banned it through inspection services, as I mentioned earlier in this exhibition on Ptuj, and somewhere the inspection services could have looked over their fingers a little bit, but it was a violation. It is right to correct the law in this direction and to legalise this matter. That's one thing. That's another thing. Some of you said, and I agree: it is different about sleeping capacity in Slovenia. As far as the areas of the Slovenian Mountains and Haloz are concerned, these sleeping facilities are not available. I had an Austrian journalist a while ago who couldn't be surprised that we didn't have any sleeping capacity in this part. And now this law gives the possibility that the farmer who already has this registration can, with the help of others, provide an increase. This will, of course, take time, I understand, because during this time also through the rural development programme much will start investing in these sleeping capacities. As these passing tourists are increasingly interested in these areas today. Of course, they don't just want to come to some farm tourism, mow or dine there, want to sleep there tonight, and stay there for days. And in order to do something contrary, it is a recent time that the Government, the Ministry, has prepared this proposal and I am very pleased that after several years of efforts, I must say this, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers - the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber has made the first proposal, of course through the wishes of their members - that this initiative has been taken up and that we hope to implement it today. However, this amendment is not accepted, because what it actually purposed to relax and actually do what I understand our rural tourism would become innkeepers. That's not the point, and that really wouldn't be in the interest, I'd say, of all those who work in some environment. First of all, it is not in the interest of the innkeepers, who, of course, are otherwise registered and otherwise pay taxes, but farmers from the cadastral income or through complementary activities at standardised costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you, too. And the apostle Geza Juban has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, as I follow the discussions in various laws, I find that most of the debaters, particularly those who oppose the amendment, talk about everything, only those amendments that are not among them. And one of them is now. Complementary activities were first regulated by regulations, supplemented regulations and those that functioned within these regulations until the law came, with colleague Uhanovo know this, were the best agricultural tourism, wine-growing and similar and survived, were modernised and now functioning well. But those who speculated, whether others or innkeepers, usually poor innkeepers, or failed and some still live. Until it came as a matter of marriage, which is before us today, and the basic text of the law was good. All the solutions you talk about - no one opposes them, rooms, events where farmers participate to have an additional offer of other farms. No one's opposed to that. What is the point of this amendment? The basic text of the Government was that the administrative authority could allow the extension of the offer. That's right, isn't it? On the committee, you have decided to make them decisive in this local community. Here's the mistake. And I don't want this jurisdiction for the mayors. The administrative authority would determine by 50 rules in the country, because about so many, or by the uniform rules prescribed by the State. Suddenly we're going to have 220 policies, 206 or so, 210. And each one will adapt a little to the interests of his citizens, his complementary activities in the congregation. And that was a mistake on the working body. What's our amendment? Nothing else will he say if local communities already determine the extension of the offer, whether it is written at either the Martin Fair or in rural tourism if we are in Kranjska Gora on rural tourism, and today we also offer wine from Haloz or shorts from mountain calves. Nothing else. For the record! And the interest of everyone who comes - see, today we have Styrian wine. Is that something wrong? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And that's what this amendment is talking about. [[...]] It's clear to me that you can't make homemade sausage unless you buy pork and beef. And no one's arguing about it. And this amendment only brightens the matter, no additional bureaucracy, nothing like that. And think about it if you support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Comrade Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I would like to say that I am already on the committee, but also now, supported this amendment, because this amendment is completely benign and of course no harm is done, even no special benefit is done, except in this sense that it gives some additional information. Information on what is offered by the mayor or the competent authority, and nothing about what is involved in taxes, what is involved in unfair competition. All that has been written before also now, only now is an additional requirement to hang it and write that people are informed that they know - those who are more enlightened. This is the function of bringing this amendment to light. Those who are more enlightened, for example, will stick to it. Those who don't care where and what they drink anyway. Of course, it is foolish to expect that the mayor who will allow this would not react when he offered tons of squid on a farm with only one chicken. I guess that's clear to everyone. That is to say, without any problem, we can support such an amendment and even if it is not supported, nothing will happen. Just a little less information and training.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Maybe just two words so I won't be too long. I will not go back to the opening words of the amendment of the law, but only to the amendment of the LDS. We think that the amendment is unnecessary, despite the fact that there was more explanation, but that it promotes unfair competition and similar things, I think this is unnecessary. I think we have two filters in this segment. The law does not in itself impose or oblige someone to sell bought drinks on their farm tourism, but leaves the option to decide. So, the local community. I think we believe the local community. We believe the mayor. I think there's a second filter at the end of the market. We are all consumers and decide for ourselves whether to drink Cocto or just homemade wine in this farm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. Comrade Slavinec, now I will not give you my word because I have asked twice who wants to discuss it. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, as part of the vote in half an hour, that is at 3 p.m. and 10 minutes. I'm adjourning the meeting of the choir and with this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u171	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on the quality and safety of human tissues and cells intended for treatment. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of Article 1 of the SNS Group. In that case, let me remind you that if the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. 49 Members and Members voted for 5 to 38. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of Article 2 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There were 57 votes in favour and 49 against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of the SNS Parliamentary Group. We're voting. 53 Members and Members voted for 9 to 38. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. We're voting. In doing so, I remind you, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant - which has also happened. There were 55 votes in favour and 50 in favour against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 13. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted for 52, against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u172	Mr. Vice President. Honourable Members and Members. I suggest we proceed with the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. 62 Members and Members voted for 51, against 5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday 22 June 2007 in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 2. Explanation. The application shall be made on behalf of the Group of Members. I think it was a mistake, Mr. Battelli, which is why he has a mistake. [[...]] Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Since the hall is now more full, allow me to summarize what this amendment brings, and to appeal to your hearing, even because if you do not like it in this form, you might come to the form that the ministry or others would like. It is also possible to leave the possibility of smoking on stage within the stage, not in the hall, to leave the possibility that the dramatic texts will remain integral and that we will not enter the author and dramatic design of the individual text through these interventions. Actors of stage art, directors, actors, you can see this in these days, who actually appeal to this exception, think that some theatre layout will not be possible, are specific, we know that, as we have heard today, we need to put on a stage some kind of separate space or space that allows smoking. In short, if this law is to be adopted, as proposed by the Ministry, and I should like to point out once again that the Minister himself was surprised that this solution had taken place. In his conversation with me, he himself pointed out that it was clear that inside the theatre work he could smoke, if that text required it, and that it seemed pointless for him to intervene in this way. In short, if we supported this proposal, there would be no interference in the artistic work of theatre, film and other stage art. If you would like the solution that for every play that has such a possibility that the Minister of Health or possibly the Minister of Culture, perhaps the Minister of Culture is still in the theatre several times and is perhaps more sensitive here to allow that an exception is possible, then we are already resolved in those film performances, when, for reasons of hardship or other reasons, the Ministry gives permission to allow a projection without subtitles to take place if such a situation is the case. Here you could give permission to light a cigar, a pipe or a cigarette if this dramatic text tells you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 35. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 3. Vote. There are 61 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 41. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 38. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 36. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will vote on the draft law on Friday, 22 June 2007, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Mountain Routes. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 32. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 44. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 47. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would ask the National Assembly to hold a third hearing at this meeting and thus relieve the July session.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u177	I wanted to give my word to the proposer, but you beat me to it with your hand. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday 22 June 2007 in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostage Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 8. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 33. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will vote on the draft law on Friday, 22 June 2007, in accordance with the 139th Member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I hereby terminate the agenda item and interrupt the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
