ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mag. Janez Petty and Drago Koren, until 3 p.m. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Secondly, the proposal for a law on participation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Secretary of State Robert Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The purpose of that proposal is to establish procedures for the participation of the competent Slovenian authorities in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings with the competent authorities of other Member States, as defined by the European Union Framework Decisions from the field under consideration. International cooperation in criminal matters is provided for in the applicable legislation in the Criminal Procedure Act. Most of the proceedings under this Act are based on the recognition of a foreign court decision and in accordance with the internal legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. That regime will apply only to cooperation with the competent authorities of non-European Union countries after the adoption and implementation of this proposal. At the level of the European Union, however, the Amsterdam Treaty explicitly included the creation of a single space of freedom, security and justice among the objectives of the European Union. For this reason, the Tempere European Council has foreseen that mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgments between the Member States of the European Union should form the basis for judicial cooperation in criminal matters. This practically means that the national judicial authority of one Member State of the European Union must recognise specific applications for surrender or extradition or applications for international legal assistance in criminal matters of another Member State with minimum formalities. Most of the framework decisions implemented in the Slovenian legal order by this bill replace traditional extradition procedures and international legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union and are based on the concept of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the course of criminal proceedings and judicial judgments. It is the implementation of framework decisions governing the European arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States, the Joint Investigation Group, Eurojust - the European Judicial Network, the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties, the enforcement of decisions on confiscation of property or evidence in the European Union, the withdrawal of property benefits, assets and assets related to criminal offences and the application of the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation orders and the exchange of data from criminal records. In addition to the procedures for the cooperation of the competent Slovenian authorities with the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union, the proposal for a law in the first part also defines the application of this law and other provisions of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The proposal further sets out the principles on which international legal cooperation in criminal matters is based between the Member States of the European Union. This is therefore the already mentioned principle of mutual recognition, the principle of speciality, the principle of effective aid and the principle of speed. As I have already stated, the purpose of this proposal is to transfer previously defined documents of the European Union's legal order in the field of international legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union to the internal legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you adopt the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask Vice-President Happy Hwauca to present the Committee's report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At its 37th regular meeting on 3.10.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the ordinary legislative procedure. At the meeting, the representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill. He said that international cooperation in criminal matters is provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act in force, namely procedures relating to international legal assistance and extradition of defendants and convicts, which is applied in a subsidiary way. Slovenia has several bilateral treaties on international legal assistance in criminal matters and extradition and is a party to most of the most important multilateral conventions of the Council of Europe and the United Nations conventions in the field under consideration. The majority of those proceedings are thus carried out on the basis of a procedure for the recognition of a foreign court decision and in accordance with the internal legal order. The Amsterdam Treaty also explicitly included the creation of a single area of freedom, security and justice among the EU's objectives, making it possible for the European Council to see mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgments between EU Member States as the basis for judicial cooperation in criminal matters. This means that the national judicial authority of one EU Member State must recognise a specific application for surrender or extradition or an application for international legal assistance in criminal matters of another Member State with minimum formalities. Regarding the arrest and surrender procedures currently under way under the Law on the European Arrest and handover Order, however, he said that an assessment had been adopted that a more appropriate regulation of this area would be transposed into this bill, which would fully regulate international legal cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States and, in view of the development of the EU acquis, could also be adequately complemented in the future by new areas. Also included in this proposal is the establishment of investigative groups, which is now regulated in the current CAP. The aim of the bill is therefore to transfer the above-mentioned documents of the EU acquis in the field of international legal cooperation in criminal matters between Member States to the internal legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, which is in accordance with Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is linked to Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments of this service were largely taken into account by the amendments tabled. It follows from the opinion of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia that the Council considered the proposal for a law at its meeting on 27.9.2007 and has no substantive comments on its text. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia as a political system was presented by the Council of State, which said that the Commission supports the bill. The members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. Amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS coalition groups were tabled in the bill. The amendments to Articles 23, 39, 40, 42, 61, 75 and 123 were adopted. The Committee also adopted all the articles of the bill below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u6	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The rapid progress of border clearance procedures within the EU has increased the free movement of persons within the Union, while making it easier for criminals operating in several Member States to work. The non-compliance with various international treaties and non-conclusion agreements between individual countries facilitated the avoidance of prosecution and threatened the safety of the population. The Amsterdam Treaty has narrowed down the structure of the third pillar, which envisages the establishment of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Just as a common economic space has been created, so this third pillar area is slowly being created - we know that the new Reform Treaty is also changing the way in which decisions are made in this pillar. The proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States implements legal acts that form part of the EU acquis into the Slovenian legal system. The draft law sets out the extent of cooperation in criminal matters between the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and other EU Member States, and also establishes the procedure for arrest and surrender between Member States. It further lays down legal assistance, the cooperation of the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia with the competent authorities of the Member States, which shall be carried out by the service of writings and the conduct of investigations and other measures for the successful execution of the forecasting or criminal proceedings. The draft law also provides for the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions, the enforcement of prison sentences, the conditions for determining detention, the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the enforcement of sanctions in another Member State. The exchange of data from criminal records is also envisaged. The Central Data Transmission Authority will be the Department of Criminal Records and Records of Educational Measures. Data from the record will be transmitted without a request or on the basis of a request from other Member States. If a particular issue is not specifically regulated by law, the provisions of the law in the field of criminal law shall be subsidiaryly applied. The draft law also includes two amendments to the transitional provisions, which merely prevent a legal gap from occurring during the termination of the law on the European Arrest and handover Order, the Rules on the form of the European Arrest and Surrender Warrant and the tasks that have been received prior to the entry into force of the law that we are considering today. Before the entry into force and implementation of this law, there would be no legal basis for the implementation of procedures based on the European Arrest and Receipt Order, thereby giving rise to a legal void. The second amendment also prolongs the validity of the provisions of the CAP with regard to the legal arrangements for the enforcement of applications and binds it to the entry into force of the Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Kristjan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, Prime Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group agree with the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The aim of the proposal is to bring certain documents of the European Union's acquis governing international cooperation in criminal matters between Member States into the legal order of our country. The draft law does not provide for the regulation of all matters and thus the provisions of the proposal do not apply to matters already covered by legal acts of the European Union or international treaties. If a matter is not regulated by the law, it simply provides that in this case the provisions of certain legal acts of the Republic of Slovenia, such as the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Offences Act and others, shall apply mutatis mutandis. Members of the Slovenian People's Party agree that meaningful legislation would facilitate cooperation between Member States in criminal proceedings, and in this regard would significantly simplify the procedures for surrender for prosecution, enforcement of penalties between members of the European Union, which would help to improve cooperation between Member States and a faster result. As a result, the level of efficiency in prosecution would also be increased, so that Member States would also mutually recognise judicial determinations and decisions and judicial decisions of the judgment on criminal proceedings. This would put some legal acts of the European Union into our legal order: a decision on the European Arrest Warrant, a decision on joint commissions of inquiry, a decision on the establishment of a judicial network, a decision on the confiscation of property benefits, and some other conclusions that would make a significant contribution to the regulation of this area. The fact is, many well-organised crimes have such a large scale that they happen in several countries at the same time, not only in one country. For such and similar cases, we support the conclusion that the competent authorities of two or more Member States of the European Union may set up a joint investigation team for a specific purpose. In this way, the investigation would take place in several countries at the same time, and greater coverage could contribute to shorter procedures and greater efficiency. Otherwise, this possibility is already allowed in criminal proceedings, but we agree with the proposaler that it would be better to transpose into the provision the proposal of the law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, because the law could cover all the more important provisions and solutions in one place. From the point of view of a more effective fight against serious crimes, it is of great importance that the Council Decision establishing Eurojust with a view to strengthening the fight against serious crimes, which would also be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. This would improve the dialogue between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union in the investigation and prosecution of a crime in the territory of several Member States and in the territory of Member States and third countries. This bill would also apply the principles of mutual recognition of financial penalties, enforcement of decisions on confiscation of property or evidence in the European Union and confiscation of property benefits. But even more important is the decision to exchange data and criminal records. It is possible to provide data on convictions of citizens and other Member States, thereby establishing more precise criminal records that result in efficiency and faster prosecution. As already pointed out by the representative of the applicant, mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgments between the Member States of the European Union must become the basis for judicial cooperation in criminal matters, only so that uniform, more efficient and, in particular, faster procedures can be expected at the level of the European Union as a whole. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group therefore agree that the transposition of certain documents of the European Union's legal order in the field of international legal cooperation in criminal matters between Member States makes sense and we will also vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u10	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government! The proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union is a positive content; the substance that we need to understand in this law is subsidiarity and much to teach and talk about what we have already heard does not make sense. Cooperation in criminal matters with the European Union is essential and useful. If we can use it to our advantage or if we can use the European Union to solve the criminal cases that take place in our country. We need to understand that there is less control on our borders with neighbouring countries that are members of the European Union because of the'schengen'. Less control gives an opportunity, I say, to the perpetrators of crimes to move from country to country, and not least from the Member States of the European Union to non-member countries. Therefore, according to the Slovenian National Party, one better solution is that this proposal includes the possibility of establishing joint investigation teams. This is the best solution that we see in this law, which is now regulated by the applicable law on criminal proceedings. Such groups are particularly useful in researching organised crime, disclosing criminal groups, of course, we are the most vulnerable, at least in the Slovenian National Party, for example in relation to pedophilic associations and so on. In short, the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union is, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, self-evident, in particular in the principle of subsidiarity, and is particularly useful in preventing organised crime which has found market niche within the framework of the 27 Member States. We will therefore support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! Speaking of this law, we are talking about criminal matters and how we can monitor them uniformly within the European Union countries, prevent and sanction them. It is about establishing a stronger cooperation and a more unified space. One thing in the sense that it will be more reliable in procedures, in action, even in the sense of covering the entire space, not just what is now laid down in many international or bilateral treaties. We believe that this transposition of the European acquis into our domestic legal order is necessary and that the effects or consequences of this transposition and the implementation of this legislation will be positive. We hope that this new law, in which 9 Council Framework Decisions are passed - I think 9 - will ensure greater efficiency in procedures, in order to ensure greater speed in regulating these situations and that mutual recognition of the decisions of the judicial authorities will help. It is a matter of mutual recognition of the possibility of arrest, extradition, surrender of persons, either convicted or suspected, or of confiscation of property or confiscation of items. This unification follows the expectation that we will be more effective in all of this and that we will therefore be easier to prevent, so in a preventive sense, we will act to make it easier to suppress criminal acts, criminal offences and that sanctions will be better regulated. This mutual legal assistance, which has already been mentioned today, is one of the preconditions for this to happen. It means the Joint Investigation Commission, it means cross-border transmission of data, and thus shortening the route, it also means participation in various investigative procedures. We estimate that this will minimize what we usually call bureaucratic obstacles, we estimate that procedures will be simplified and that automatic recognition will greatly help. The conditions for all of this to unify this European space, the single space of justice, freedom, as also discussed in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Temperian conclusions, so that this will be possible only after or we know that this is possible only after the constitutional change has been made possible, so that we can ensure that part of the transfer of our own sovereignty is ensured in a larger European space of adequate security, justice and freedom. Since this is in some way necessary, as we are now adopting in this law, which we are transferring to our legal order, because the Council of Justice has also agreed, because the Commission has also agreed with the Council of State and the Committee of Mothers has supported this, we in the DeSUS Group have assessed that the proposal for a law is well prepared and that it can be part of our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič, position on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives. We support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because it is about implementing the European Union's acquis in the field of law. The purpose of this law is, as is the purpose of the European Union, to implement uniformly the rules of the European Union, which must be properly incorporated into its legal system. This simplifies the procedures relating to the participation of all Member States of the European Union and thus makes them more effective. The basis of such judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union is mandatory mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgments. From this fundamental principle, it can be achieved that the judicial authority of one Member State of the European Union will recognise specific applications for surrender or extradition or apply for international legal assistance in criminal matters of another Member State of the European Union with minimum formalities. The bill under consideration, which we say is supported by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, will allow a faster and easier way to receive and hand over suspects of crime who are located in any Member State of the European Union. The legal assistance or cooperation of the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union, as provided for in the European Union Framework Decisions implementing this Law into the Slovenian legal order, will also enable better and more effective conduct of criminal proceedings. We believe that the adoption of the law will move forward towards a better and more effective work of all judicial institutions in Slovenia in the area of criminal law, so there are no reservations to the adoption of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 22.10.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 124 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I note that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment on this Article. And I am putting to the debate Article 125 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - Defence Bill on Supplements to the Law on Payments, Reduced Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments is supplemented by Article 29 of the Law on Payments relating to access to data from the Register of Transaction Accounts. The main objective of the proposed additions is to remove administrative barriers, speed up enforcement procedures and reduce court costs by facilitating direct access to data from the transaction account register to the courts. The proposed additions provide for access to the Courts' Register of Transaction Accounts only by specifying the name, surname and address of the residence of the Account Holder, without specifying the tax number as required by the Courts now in force. The current regime now gives rise to the courts: for the first time, the extension of judicial proceedings and the consequent increase in judicial backlogs in the area of enforcement, where the backlogs are relatively already the largest and burden the entire judicial system. In the event of the adoption of the proposed additions, the Court would be so burdened by an additional preliminary examination into another register, which, unfortunately, represents a rather delayed procedure at this time. This would significantly accelerate the enforcement procedures in which the court must act in a particularly rapid manner. And a second time. The current regime is causing disproportionately high costs to the competent courts. Following the adoption of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia UI 298/04 on 27.10.2005, which repealed Article 29(1) and (2) of the Law on Payments, which prevented the courts from having direct electronic access to the transaction accounts register data, only in the largest regional courts, that is, in Ljubljana and Maribor, more than 150,000 Euros were spent on the necessary inquiries by commercial banks and, of course, the decision-making period was extended. By adopting the proposed supplement, the courts will be entitled to direct access to data from the Register of Transaction Accounts. Direct electronic access to the transaction account register data only by stating the name, surname and address of the holder’s residence is crucial for the court to speed up enforcement procedures for the first time and, secondly, to reduce the burden of the courts, which is why all the District Courts, including the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, strongly support this change of law. The opinion was also forwarded to the European Central Bank, which, in its reply, stated that the bill welcomed and expected that by facilitating access to the data of natural persons from the Register of Transaction Accounts, the law would strengthen and expedite judicial enforcement proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask Vice-President Srečk Hvauc to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Hello again! At its 37th meeting, held on 3.10.2007, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. At its meeting on 13.7.2007, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. At the meeting, a representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, gave an additional explanation to the article of the bill. In particular, he said that the proposal for a court law provided for the possibility of access to the transaction account register only by stating the name, surname and address of the account holder's residence, but not by specifying the tax number of the transaction account holder, which was generally unknown to the courts, as regulated by the law in force. Such arrangements result in the extension of judicial proceedings, thereby increasing judicial backlogs mainly in the area of enforcement, where backlogs are already very large. Moreover, the current regime also creates disproportionate costs for the competent courts. The bill is prepared on the basis of an initiative by the Centre for Informatics at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and has also been sent to coordinate with the District Courts in Slovenia, which supported the bill. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that that service had no comments to the draft law. It follows from the opinion of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia that the Council considered the proposal for a law at its meeting on 12.7.2007 and has no comments on it. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the political system is also without any comment, or the Commission supports the proposal of the law. No amendments were tabled to the bill and the Committee adopted all the articles of the bill below. No amendments were adopted to the draft law in the second reading at the home labour body, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice to the National Assembly, proposing that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on payment services be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you very much again for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of the problems of the overload of Slovenian courts. Complementing the Law on Payments will speed up the enforcement procedure. We believe that today the situation is such that the acceleration of the procedure is welcome, of course, provided that these changes do not affect the protection of the personal data of the holders of the transaction accounts themselves. Access to the Courts in the Register of Transaction Accounts without specifying the tax number of the holder of the Trascation Account makes sense, since the Court would not have to carry out further inquiries in the other register, and this is precisely the result of the discharge of the courts or the acceleration of proceedings. We also believe that the court should not depend on one of the parties to the direct electronic access to the transaction account register data when it comes to direct access to the data from the transaction account registry. The right of courts to direct electronic access to the transaction account register data must be based on the law itself, as this is a matter of removing the administrative obstacle, and these are always very welcome, should result in a reduction of judicial backlogs, a cost assessment and the acceleration of enforcement proceedings. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support this addition to the Law on Payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on payment transport, which is in fact made for - and I must be critical here - that once again and again the judicial branch of the government will be able to make as few delays as possible. At the same time, however, it is necessary to be critical and say, with Lukenda and all these programmes, another measure to ensure that there will be no judicial backlog. Now I think that, on behalf of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and on their behalf as their Members in this National Assembly, we can only expect a reduction in the judicial backlog. With regard to the law itself, it should be said that access to the register of transaction accounts with the name, surname and address of the holder’s residence is, of course, perfectly normal. I don't know why we should be looking for tax numbers and I don't know what, but we're surprised at the fact that there are as many as 150 000 Euros in search of this data, I think in Ljubljana and Maribor, which is, of course, unreasonable in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Well, I am surprised at the position and opinion of the European Central Bank, which supports the proposed changes, but also says that these changes should not affect the standards for the protection of personal data. It's not a dick or a mouse, I don't understand that. Someone can make up that access to some data without tax numbers or, I don't know, a parent number, now I'm thinking it's harmful, but another might say that it's irrelevant and that it's right that you can get some data without tax and without any other number. That's how this attitude is a little weird, but good. Last but not least, I don't know if it's criminal or criminal, but it's necessarily evil. Not that we're protecting someone now if, under the terms of "lump," we're protecting them because somehow we don't get some data, I don't know, some tax number or whatever. In short, we will support this law and expect a reduction in judicial backlogs and a faster solution to indeed pressing problems and to all those who so far have exploited all these options that have been given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thanks again for the word. Members of the DeSUS Group will contribute their votes in favour of the proposed amendments to the Law on Payments. The drafter prepared this in such a way as to propose an amendment to a single article with two contents. It is about replacing the tax number with the title, and it is about allowing direct access to information that is available through the transaction account register - for the courts, of course. The very sharp changes in the number of words and letters and the very high expectations of this changing article are extensive. The expectations are that the courts will be cost-effectively burdened, that significant administrative improvements will take place, that work will also be carried out with significantly lower workloads in the courts, that more speed will be achieved and that more efficiency will be achieved in carrying out this work, which could be reconciled with the word recovery. The importance of good lawmaking is so much more evident in this regard. Sometimes it is just to miss a word or a line, and this causes problems for which the applicant has even assessed that this is irreparable damage occurring in the courts and, of course, intends to remedy this irreparable damage with this change. The bill assesses that the solutions in the current law are poor and therefore cause unnecessary work, work by the curves, higher costs, poor efficiency, greater burden of the courts and backlogs that we have in every law on our lips. However, the problems of payment and payment discipline are not just what is changing here. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the problems are in fact in a very poor business culture that has been established in us; that problems are also in a poor general culture, which is dominant in the area of payment transport in particular; that there is irresponsibility and fraud, where possible, good business practices and practices, and that they may be too easy to access financial resources, which then in many cases cause inequity or even insolvency, and consequently all of the problems that we are talking about. It is interesting or necessary to point out that this non-discipline of payments is not, as is generally supposed, merely the payment discipline of those engaged in business, i.e. businesses and private persons, but that it is actually the largest pool of those who violate payment discipline, between natural persons and those who are also likely to have the most work done by the courts. It's probably about things like this, like not paying different bills, either rents, operating costs, or it's a bad return on consumer credit and other similar things that natural persons face every day. The most common users or applicants for this information that we are talking about and whose accessibility we now want to approach are the courts for these executions. Since the current legislation has not allowed adequate access or is not the best access, we are trying to change this. It is an ambition for the courts not only to facilitate access to these data, but to relieve their work and to access these data directly. Whether the effects will be what is expected or not, we don't know. The DeSUS Group will support this bill, but some questions are being asked. Is what we are talking about so dramatic that there are irreparable consequences for the work of the courts, or are we over-dramatic about this indirect accessibility of the tax number? We ask ourselves whether it was really not possible to draw up any international comparisons, whether others do not have such problems and whether there really are no consequences for public funds, since there are significant savings and public funds that do not mean only expenditure, perhaps even when it comes to saving.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Rezman. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments contains all two articles, the first is substantive and the second defines the entry into force. Nevertheless, it does appear that the law of operational use is of no importance for both time and financial benefit. We are all aware of the backlogs in the courts, and we welcome in the Slovenian Democratic Party any proposal that would in future intervene in the register of transaction accounts with the name and address of the holder of the transaction account, without having to mention the tax numbers that the courts normally do not have, so far they had to look for in other records. In particular, enforcement procedures will be able to be expedited, which is the most. The proposal for a law on payment transactions allows the courts direct access to data on transaction accounts held by the Bank of Slovenia. The data could also be obtained by means of a special arrangement with the central bank, but in this case the bank would require financial compensation, which is not a small cost for the courts, but it is known who must pay all of this. This is the justification in the introduction - found financial benefit. The proposed novelty shall enter into force the following day following its publication in the Official Journal. The proposal for a law was adopted on the home committee without any comment, and we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party a proposal for a law supplementing the law on payment services full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will give his position to the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At a meeting of the National Assembly last month, we discussed the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and highlighted that the area of enforcement remained uncontrollable in the direction of backlogs and accumulation of cases. Indeed, the New Law on Payments contains only two articles, but it brings an important change to the work of the courts in the field of enforcement. In addition to the name, surname and address of the transaction account holder, the courts, after the law in force, had to provide a tax number to identify the transaction account holder as well as the name and address. The problem arose because the tax court did not have the power to do so and had to take a look at the tax register. The additional inquiry meant another step more in the process, which burdens the referees and prolongs the procedure. Such a solution certainly did not benefit creditors who wanted to pay their claim as soon as possible. Following the proposed amendment, the courts will only access the Register of Transaction Accounts managed by the Bank of Slovenia by transmission of the name, surname and address of the natural person. Informatics would say that the approach will be via a secondary key. While we were asked here a key question is how, in the case of a data match, for example, the courts will live on the same address for persons with the same name and surname, distinguish and choose the right person who is the holder of rights and duties. The Government explains that in this case it will be necessary to provide adequate information support to alert the user that the search needs to be extended on the basis of an additional criterion, i.e. tax numbers. However, access via the tax code is uniform. There are likely to be few such cases, but there will be a need to ensure adequate due diligence and a high level of protection of personal data. Amendments to the law also provide for the possibility of direct electronic access of courts to the register of transaction accounts, which will primarily facilitate access and reduce disproportionately high costs that the courts had to pay for inquiries. In the District Court of Ljubljana and the Regional Court of Maribor alone, a total of EUR 150,000 has been used in the last two years to investigate commercial banks. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed changes, while we are pleased that the proposed amendments are also welcomed by the European Central Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO REVEAL THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LOTTERY OF SLOVENIA LEGISLATION LAW, REDUCE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Minister Dr. Beast. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u30	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members and Members! Allow me to start a discussion with a few introductory words on the amendment of the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije. As you know, the law has been in the parliamentary procedure for some time now, and the government has started to discuss the amendment in mid-2005 when it formed the first working group to draw up the expert basis for the preparation of the novel. Later, she formed another working group, which prepared the basis for the marriage. We wanted or wanted to make sure that the composition of the worlds of both foundations was even more balanced so that civil society from both areas would be even more represented in the worlds. And by doing so, we continue to wish that the direct impact of daily policy in such bodies would be overwhelming or excessive. We also want to ensure, through the amendment of the law, a solid and effective work in the allocation of funds and the precondition for this is certainly the professionalisation of the job of the Foundation Director. Why? We are convinced that this brings greater expertise, operationalism and the responsibility of the Foundation's management body, given that they both have a considerable amount of more than €20 million per year. So with all the topics, including the third innovation, which brings 2/3 of the members in deciding on the allocation of funds and the adoption of the most important acts at all, we want to achieve even greater transparency, ensure appropriate procedures for the work of both foundations, efficiency and risk reduction. I am pleased to note that in the course of the debate, the practical text of the law was aligned with all the social partners, both with the Olympic Committee, the Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, the Red Cross, Karitas, the Mountain Rescue Service of Slovenia, both the FIHO and the FŠO. The law is also agreed by representatives or members of the Professional Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for sport, for persons with disabilities as well as many other organisations which are affected by the law in one way or another. We even have written assurances that the law is aligned with all these associations, so that we are in some way satisfied with our work so far. Given that there are many conflicting interests, sometimes even conflicts, we have managed to reach the consensus of those most affected by this law, and these are, of course, sports and disability-humanitarian organisations. I ask you, honourable Members, to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. May I have the president of mags, please? Branka Grims to present the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. On 11 October, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture, Education and Sport addressed the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. A number of representatives from civil society, various associations and, following a very broad discussion in which these representatives participated, attended the meetings, the Committee adopted several amendments, namely Articles 1, 2, 4, 5 and 9 and rejected a number of amendments. In any event, he finally confirmed the second reading text and we propose to the National Assembly that the text in that form be considered and adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, of course also representatives of the Ministry, especially Mr Minister! I believe that this early hour is too early for us to think more substantively about the proposal of the law, the amendments and additions to the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije, which is an important law. An important law because it undoubtedly speaks of a very high financial quota, which is awarded at the annual level to three types of organisations: disabled, humanitarian and, of course, sports. Allow me to begin by focusing on what the Government has written in its opening statement. The cause of change is an increasing conflict, or there are growing conflicts between some representatives of civil society and members of the Foundation Council following the proportional representation of individual organised groups and beneficiaries in the Foundation world. The amateur work of Foundation Directors, the conflict of interest between the applicant, the distributor and the supervisor, is a problem with the sustainability of mandates and more and more complaints by applicants about the call for funds. There is no doubt that we can also agree with this in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, as we have received a whole lot of complaints about the legislation so far, or in particular the implementation of legislation in practice. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that, in the first place, there is a need to ensure a sustainable and stable source of funding for disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations, the autonomy of the functioning of the Council of the two Foundations, and in particular transparent and appropriate criteria to prevent conflicts in the functioning of members of the Councils, supervisory bodies and recipients of funds. The fact is, and at the very beginning, I mentioned that this is a high amount of finance, 5 billion dollars, I'm sorry for talking about tolars. A total of 5 billion tolars were allocated at annual level in 2006, divided into three types of organisations already adopted: disability, humanitarian and sports. The maximum percentage falls from disability organisations, up to 65%. Let me also recall from some of the previous meetings, including the Labour, Family and Social Policy Committee, and the disabled, because we have not heard complaints from one party or the other about irregularities arising from the existing conflict of interest in individuals occurring in the distribution of funds. That is why we have already tabled an amendment in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to our mother's working body, and we have prepared it once again for the meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to point out that we favour a change in the composition of the Foundation's Council, which contributes to greater balance in representation between disability and humanitarian organisations, and prevents, emphasises, prevents discrimination in the field of disability organisations, as it offers the amendment we have drafted in the Slovenian National Party, in accordance with the Disability Organisations Act, the possibility of equal cooperation to registered disability organisations, which are not representative. And accordingly, in the amendment itself, because I will have more time, perhaps more to say, I will explain the content of the amendment in more detail, and in this part I would like to point out only that we have also been given an amendment, and I will say that we have received a huge amount of mail, especially humanitarian organisations, welcoming the amendment tabled, that I have been hampered by a representative of one of the disability organisations, if we want to reduce the rights of disabled organisations with this amendment. In this place, I must say that this is just the continuation of the work that we have witnessed to him, as I said before, on the Committee on Labour, the family, social policy and the disabled, and I believe that other working bodies of the National Assembly have been faced in the past with similar pressures, which I strongly reject at this time. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party we have prepared [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Our support for this bill also depends on the adoption of this amendment. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u36	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! The purpose of the activities of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations is to ensure and create better conditions for the work and life of individual groups of the population. The activities shall be financed from budgetary resources, sponsorship and donors and concession fees from the adaptation of gambling. The funds derived from concession fees are distributed to users by a disability-humanitarian foundation and a sports foundation. There is always dissatisfaction with the composition of the members of the Council of the two foundations, which is particularly evident in the annual allocation of funds between direct users, resulting in conflicting interests and disputes between individual organisations within foundations. There is also a problem with the allocation process itself, as regards the conditions, criteria and relations, the allocation of funds, the reporting of the use of funds and the professionalisation of directors of the two foundations. The funds and the number of members in both foundations have changed in the past, with the proposed changes in the composition of the two foundations' councils trying to ensure a more democratic and even representation of different civil groups, but the proposed composition, in particular the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disability and Humanitarian Organisations offered by the Government, in the DeSUS Group we do not favour. That is why we have once again tabled an amendment to Article 1 which is unacceptable to us. In view of the fact that the proposed amendment increases the number of members of the FIHO Council, there is also an increase in the gap between the membership of representatives from representative disability organisations and humanitarian organisations, which is contrary to the objective of a balanced and balanced representation of different social groups. This can certainly affect the fundamental mission of Humanitarian Foundations for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations, which, due to uneven representation, is to be extended to a large extent to one side. We have similar concerns about the composition of the Council for the financing of sports organisations, where the predominant role in the Council's composition process is on the side of the Government. And if we take the comparisons from the current and proposed composition, we can see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will appoint or propose as many as 6 out of 17 FIHO members, that is, the Government of 30 appoints only 2. In view of the fact that both foundations draw resources from the same resources and that the funds are allocated to civil society, it is necessary to provide for both foundations, for their operation, composition and supervision comparable arrangements, which must also be sufficiently autonomous in order to ensure that their mission is fulfilled. Members of the DeSUS certainly agree with the restriction on the repetition of the mandates of the members of the Council and the Director and the professionalisation of the Foundation Director, as this will also provide greater responsibility for the operations of foundations and more democratic decision-making in the allocation of funds from foundations. In view of the above, we will support the law, while at the same time we expect that the text of the proposed amendments and the additions will be improved, which we believe is also essential for a more effective fulfilment of the mission of foundations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u38	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Property Transformation of Loteria Slovenije was adopted in 1996 and completed in 1997. The law transformed Lottery into a share company, and 50 % of the social capital in the form of shares was transferred to two foundations established by the same law and 40% of the shares were transferred to the disability-humanitarian foundation and 10% to the sports foundation. In addition to concession fees from the adaptation of gambling, which are entirely or in part intended for the financing of disability, humanitarian and sports organisations under the Gambling Act, funds for these purposes shall also be provided for the division of the profits of the Lottery of Slovenia. We can say that the state has waived part of the funds that would otherwise be included in the budget for the benefit of the foundations, which are to co-finance activities in the field of sport, disability and humanitarian affairs. In doing so, she expressed her confidence in the disabled and humanitarian and sports organisations that they themselves would be most able to manage these funds and to distribute them fairly among their members and members. After the adoption of the law, the two Foundations established, adopted the necessary documents, the creation decree, the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds, appointed holy foundations and directors and prepared all necessary, established national Councils of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia and so on. In the years since the entry into force of the law and the necessary regulations, there have been some shortcomings. Some groups that had representatives in the foundation world no longer function or ceased to exist have been abolished. Some groups have the opportunity to propose representatives from different titles, such as the Mountain Union of Slovenia as a single group and as a member of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. The Court of Auditors reviewed the procedures for the allocation of funds and drew attention to the conflict of interest between the applications of the applicant, the distributor and the supervisor, the proceedings were not conducted in accordance with the ZUP or led by persons who did not have a ZUP. The relevant decisions or decisions have not been issued, thereby preventing the exercise of the right of appeal. The rejection of complaints was not substantiated. At the time of the invitation, even the criteria or criteria changed. As a result of this, more and more complaints were made by the notifiers to the invitation to tender. In the last year, the number of complaints increased by 15 times, from 6 complaints to 86 complaints. The administrative inspectors carried out the inspection of the Sports Foundation, adopted the minutes. The Inspector in the minutes shall refer to irregularities in the conduct of proceedings by persons who do not have a ZUP examination. He noted that no decision had been made to the applicants for funds, so that there was no possibility of formal complaints, and that an informal complaint had been resolved by the Director of the Sports Foundation, who had not passed an examination under the Administrative Procedure Act, instead of a second-degree body which had been issued by the Ministry. The Foundation, instead of addressing irregularities, proposed an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 307 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which, by the way, has been conducted in many different segments of our country, which was rejected by a decision of the Constitutional Court. A few more procedures have been arranged at the Foundation for Disability Organisations, where procedures have been more determined by the Foundation's internal acts, but are also not satisfactory here. This led to growing conflicts between some representatives of civil society, members of the Foundation Council regarding the representation of individual organised groups. Some irregularities have been eliminated by the Foundation through its internal acts, and others we hope will be improved by the amendment of the law. The composition of the two Foundation Councils is changed, in line with the changes already mentioned, when the number of disability organisations increased from two to 17 representative, humanitarian from 3 to 52 and when percentages of co-financing also changed. In addition, the service users and representatives of the two Foundations pointed out the difficulties caused by the amateur work of the Foundation Directors and the inadequacy in the payment of the costs they had as non-professional directors, so it will be professional and may take up a maximum of two consecutive mandates after the new Director’s post. An important change is also that the Foundation Council will decide on the financial plan, the final account and the rules by 2/3 of the majority. The Interdepartmental Group, which was set up to prepare a proposal for the amendment of the law, has invited the representatives of the two foundations to participate, so the law is in our opinion coordinated and we will also support it in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The Slovenian Lottery was transformed by ownership in 1998. Since then, 40% of the assets of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and 10% of the ownership of the Sport Foundation have been held by the Capital Fund of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Fund. The Foundation has been set up to finance disability and humanitarian or sports organisations. The financing of these activities also achieves public interest in those areas. The use of the funds collected in this way shall be regulated by the Rules on Criteria and Conditions for their Use. The funds are very large and therefore there are also various interests and impacts on their distribution. Still, this has been well arranged so far. The impact on the distribution of funds is one of the fundamental reasons why the Government decided to amend the law, following a reduced procedure. We objected to this in the opposition. We have proposed that there should be no hurry and that all the questions raised by these changes should be examined by organising a public presentation of opinions, which is what the government coalition on the parental committee has done with a smooth and without arguments. In this way, we could talk about the key problems of foundations, which today are mainly related to financial flows. The biggest threat to the existence of both foundations is today the situation in the gambling market on the Internet and the absence of legal regulations in this area in Slovenia. The Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly has found that, despite the extensive explanation of the novel law, it is extremely modest and indeterminate and does not provide sufficient grounds for a comprehensive understanding of the text. Although the proposal has only 10 articles, the Legislative and Legal Service has raised serious concerns about the seven articles and has found that some changes are also disputed from a systemic point of view. The proposer of these changes has apparently gone a long way towards home and, above all, his own taste. On a proposal from the law, the Group of Social Democrats tabled four amendments to each article. The bill is about an increase in the composition of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which increases the difference between the number of representatives instead of a balanced representation of one and the other. We therefore propose that the number of representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations in the Foundation's world be balanced so as to allow for dialogue between all organisations with more than 600,000 users. We also propose with the amendment that there is no special need for the Olympic Committees of Slovenia alone to define precisely the body to appoint their representative to the Foundation Council. We also propose that because of the inaction and practical absence of a public sports institution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute for Sport, they do not have the opportunity to propose their member in the world of the Sports Foundation. We also propose that until the appointment of the new directors of the Foundations, all tasks be performed by the Director of the Foundations. The government solution to this law means replacing directors by the fastest possible procedure. Your Honor! If our amendments or amendments to the Social Democrats' Group are not adopted, our Group of Members will vote against the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! At the LDS, we estimate that it is again one of the laws that is not well prepared. One of the laws that is very important, since it defines how humanitarian, disability and sports organisations come to have a significant share of their resources, which can have an important impact on their success, on their success, while at the same time we see that once again one of the laws which is opposed by almost the entire professional and interested public is not supported by the law to which the intended one is directed. We have very thick letters of support to the amendments tabled, but they have been slightly over-voted. At the same time, we note that this is another case that proves not only a smooth vote, as I said, but also an arrogant attitude towards the profession, since the proposed public hearing is a possibility for the professional and interested public to tell themselves what they think about the laws, what proposals they represent and support them, was well-voted. At the same time, as I said, no mention was adopted on the Committee, or a substantive amendment, but there were quite a few. Many were also supported by the Legal and Legal Service. If we look at, say, Article 1, where the composition of the foundation's worlds is determined. It is also questionable how many members of which the organization proposes to the world, as well as the unclear definition and role of the National Assembly in the appointment of the founder, who is already authorised under the current legislation to appoint members, are asked to resolve the members, and it is not explicit to say what kind of resolution is: either regular or exceptional. And also this has been clearly warned by the Law-Legal Service. With regard to the number of members of the FIHO world, there has been an amendment to ensure balance on the one hand between disability organisations and humanitarian organisations. In view of the fact that the share of the funds, as far as they belong, is already predetermined. Of course, this is not about voting, about fighting for as much money as possible, but, as we have heard many times in the debate, it is primarily about the wish of humanitarian organisations to make a more effective contribution to the functioning of the Foundation so that they can improve the organisation of the Foundation. And we are confident that this will be what will reduce the number of complaints, which will reduce many indications of the irregular and untransparent functioning of these foundations. On the other hand, there is a significant gap between the legislation in force, the applicant's statements in the introductory part and the text itself. The proposal states that the foundations are still institutions of civil society representatives and that it seeks to ensure the autonomy of the two foundations' councils by means of a proposal for a law. From this point of view, then, it is quite questionable why most members appoint or give consent to the government or congregation, the local community. This will certainly not contribute to autonomy and the strengthening of civil society. We have already heard the case that only the Olympic Committees of Slovenia must appoint members to represent them at the Assembly. This is left to all other organisations to arrange for their internal acts. We will not support the proposed law, given everything listed at the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! The Novela Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije brings in particular three changes to the law. Firstly, the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia is changing. Both amendments promote better representation of all those representatives who are actual users of the funds belonging to them under the Gambling Act. However, the second thing that the amendment improves is that in key documents such as the financial plan, the final account and the rules on the terms, criteria and allocation of funds of the Foundation are decided by the Board of Competent Foundations with a two-thirds majority. In Novi Slovenija, it seems crucial that no one has an absolute majority in the allocation of funds, which are essentially the revenue of the budget, which the country has renounced for the benefit of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. The third amendment brought by the novel is the professionalisation of the Director, it is said that the Director performs his job professionally. In the fact that it is distributed for both foundations about EUR 30 million or 7 billion of old Slovenian tolars, we think that it is professionally the only right thing to do. In addition, the amendment introduces a legal basis for the procedure for appeals against the decisions of the two foundations. In Novi Slovenija we will support the amendment of the law as it improves the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije, introduces greater transparency or transparency of business and greater responsibility for those who share budgetary resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The revenue of disabled humanitarian and sports organisations is partly provided from the budget and part of public funds is provided through the revenue from gambling. What can be found to be easy to find that, in particular, the latter option is linked to large financial gains and the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations have a large amount of money in their hands when you share it with users. 80% of the funds achieved by paying concession fees from the number lottery, lottery with current profits and lotteries are earmarked for the financing of disabled and humanitarian organisations and 20% for the financing of sports. The funds for this purpose are also provided through the distribution of the profits of the Slovenian Lottery and the Foundation in July 2005 with lottery profits of EUR 275 million dividends. Undoubtedly, we strongly support all the financial assistance provided to people with disabilities and humanitarian needs, as this undoubtedly contributes to the quality of life of those organisations. However, I would just like to point out that this is a matter of great profits and, as a result, a great deal of responsibility for those who share money. And this area must also be consistently regulated. This responsibility, given the availability of money, is also one of the reasons why we support the idea that the Director of the two Foundations should perform their functions professionally and not just in the afternoon, as the drafter of this law himself has expressed himself. The problems are also posed by the composition of members of the two foundations' boards, as the Council is deciding on the actual allocation of funds between users. The bill also mentions, for example, irregularities in the sport foundation identified by the administrative inspection, in view of the irregularities in the conduct of the procedure and the inadequacy of the staff. These problems would therefore be addressed by ensuring the autonomy of the two Foundations' councils, by changing the composition of the Councils of the two Foundations, by simplifying the procedure for the collection of funds, which so far has been the subject of many complaints by the notifiers to a public tender for the acquisition of these funds. The professional function of the Director would also be ensured compared to the previous one, and mandates would be limited to individuals. These changes would maintain the predominant influence of representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations in relation to the country. With the increase in the number of representatives of disability organisations in the Foundation's world, the National Council of Disability Organisations of Slovenia is also extremely pleased in its report, and slightly less of the humanitarian organisations as they advocate a balanced representation of representatives of disability organisations as well as humanitarian organisations. Long and probably even hard coordination has obviously managed to harmonise most of this, which is very important for the proposal of today's adoption of the law itself, because most humanitarian and sports organisations, as we have information, support the proposal of the proposer. The Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore believe that the proposed changes will improve the current situation and protect these organisations by ensuring a more fair and more controlled allocation of funds, so we will also support this proposal for the benefit of all these financial users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 22.10.2007. Before we begin the debate on the amendments, I would like to remind you that we would really like to discuss only the content of an individual amendment in order not to reopen the general debate. If that happens, I'll stop. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors, the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors, the three amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Zares Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? The application for discussion shall be open. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. In the opening presentation of the Slovenian National Party's Group, I have already pointed out in essence what the amendment refers to in Article 1. Very clearly and loudly that I will not read everything again, I believe that those Members and Members, as well as the government representatives who have read the explanation, know what this is about in our amendment. What we want is to want a better balance as regards representations or representatives within the world, it is said to increase the number of humanitarian organisations and not to equalise them, but only to bring the number of members of the disability organisations proposed by the National Council of Disability Organisations closer to them. On the other hand, we also want to eliminate, according to our assessment, the discrepancy in this law with the Law on Disability Organisations, because we want to delete the word'representative', saying that we would have the right to appoint a member also those organisations that are not merely representative. I will also ask the representatives of the Ministry of Explanation specifically on this last matter, which I have highlighted. There's one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. Today I received a letter from Mr Boris Šuštaršič, President of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. I must say that I have received his phone call a while ago, asking us not to table a re-amendment because our amendment is supposed to cause or cause a deep conflict between disability and humanitarian organisations. It goes on to say that they point out in the National Council of Disability Organisations that the rumbling of certain humanitarian organisations reflected in the proposed amendments to Article 1 is objectively an unethical conduct and so on. I strongly reject such speculation or instigation. And now I'm a little harsh on the president. Why? Because I am saying that this is only one aspect of the problem, one aspect which, in my opinion, very clearly indicates irregularities in the work of the said world or in the practice that took place when the law came into effect. This is also, in my opinion, one reflection of inequality, which has been pointed out by many disability organisations, as well as humanitarian ones. And if Mr President of the National Council of Disability Organisations calls on them to support our amendment only some small organisations. I must say that, these are the letters I received, among the supporters of such a text, are the content of the amendment, including the Unicef Society, which I estimate is a large organization, even the world dimension, then the Society for Assistance to Women and Children, Victims of Violence, Safe House, Association against Sexual Abuse, not least the Slovenian Karitas. In short, there are many large organisations that advocate content as proposed in the Slovenian National Party. I will, of course, ask for further explanations from government representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members, we have indeed not tabled an amendment that would change the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations because we understand that the support given to the amendment 50:50 representation of humanitarian and disability organisations is large enough for the Government and coalition to listen to all the warnings that come to us. Of course, they should have been coordinated before you came in with the law, but that's nothing new. Minister Beast, we know that there have been more votes in any other legislative field in the area of civil and other university and other organisations, and there has been no hearing, so I hope that there will be hearing that humanitarian and disability organisations in the world appear in equal representation, even though there is also a question. Given that there is no analysis of how other resources are spent, from budgetary resources. Many would say that humanitarian organisations sometimes have easier access to other, including donor funds than disabled ones. But as I say, we don't meet with this data, and the discussion here wasn't deep enough. However, we were upset by the proposal of the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, as you proposed. Let me say that we are aware that there has not been a radical change in such a way that someone might think that from gambling, money can be diverted somewhere else. I welcome such an arrangement as it is in Slovenia, because after all it means a lot of help. Other countries have another, other countries, for example, from sports games, also finance the film. And our filmmakers would like to do that. But we're glad you're keeping this, and we're not happy that you want to get as involved as you do elsewhere. And the composition of the worlds suggests that. That is why we have tabled an amendment to change the balance within the world of foundations for financing sports organisations where the government would not have as much power as it wants. That is why we have proposed that, well, because you do not want to influence only through the government, through your representatives, which you give them or which you confirm, but also in the way that you reduce the presence of representatives of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, because we know that this is nothing surprising given that you do not like them here too. We, from nine members of the representatives on the proposal of the Olympic Committee, propose nine members, while you suggest seven. And we also propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appoints 3 members on a proposal, while you appoint 6. In short, we don't want this politicization, we don't want so much government involvement and so much government control. After all, the government will already give its consent to the directors, both directors, which is right to professionalise this service, but you will also have your hands over here. Our amendment is going in the direction, I will not read it to keep the Olympic committees 9 members, not 7 members, like you, and that the Government has free hands with three members, not six, as you think. In short, less politics here, less control of the world. I would appeal, for three years we are faced with trying to put more confidence in those services that can participate independently and autonomously in the composition of different supervisory councils, different such and different worlds. Today or at this session, we will have another such world. This is the Public Book Agency, where the Government is already "bringing" in again, as if there could be nothing without it, as if there were no confidence in civil society organisations and strong representatives of civil society and professional representatives of civil society. So I appeal to you to support this amendment. Let me draw your attention to another change that's different from yours. We have given another representative on the proposal of the University of Ljubljana Institute for Sport. And it is not a public institution that has already been heard today that is not trustworthy because it does not work or on a committee. Our proposal for the membership of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations is aimed at greater confidence in civil and professional organisations and is depriving the power that the Government wants in this organisation, and therefore I think it is worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The proposal for this amendment is, of course, an increase in the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which, instead of balancing the representations of each other, increases the differences in the number of representatives. There is no valid legal basis in Slovenia to justify the unequal representation of representatives of disabled and humanitarian organisations in the FIHO Council. In any applicable regulation concerning the law, disability organisations have no legal status other than humanitarian organisations. The argument for a balanced representation of the Councils is also that in 2006 23 disabled organisations and 52 humanitarian societies and associations had exhausted their funds for operation and programmes. We therefore propose that the number of representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations in the Foundation's world be balanced and, as I have already said in the introduction, a dialogue that will allow for cooperation between all organisations involving more than 600,000 individuals or users. We propose that the number of 16 members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations proposed by the National Council of Disability Organisations be reduced to 14 and that the number of members proposed by humanitarian organisations be increased from 9 to 11 members. This would somehow balance the representation of each other, but otherwise this would not have a significant impact on the allocation of funds, as it is already determined in advance how much of the funds goes in the global for both. In addition, we propose a change to the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. We are proposing a larger number of members proposed by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia in the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia for reasons such as this, which brings together sports associations covering approximately 99% of all sports activities in Slovenia, i.e. from 7 to 8. We also propose the deletion and right to membership in the world for the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia and the Institute for Sport. In fact, it is a non-functional organisation, as far as I am aware, which makes no sense for the law to give it the right to propose members in the foundation's world. Well, let me say, and I refer also to the conclusions of the Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia, here I have the decision of the 9th meeting of the Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport of 22.11.2006, which states: "The professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport calls on the Ministry of Education and Sport to take all necessary measures to implement the decision establishing the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Sport, that the Public Institute for Sport will begin to carry out the tasks set out in the decision on its establishment as soon as possible." As far as I know, nothing material has happened, and this institute or this public institution does not work at all, and there is no point in having a single member in the law itself or in the membership of the world. We therefore propose that this membership be deleted and the number of members of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia increased. In addition, there is another nonsense, which has been explained on the parental committee for culture, but is discriminatory to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, because only for the Olympic Committees of Slovenia is it explicitly stated that the proposal for membership is formed by the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, but not, for example, by others who propose, say, on a proposal from the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Sport, on a proposal from the Association of municipalities of Slovenia, on the proposal of the Professional Council of the Government of Slovenia for Sport and so on. It is not a written body, only the Olympic Committee has written that it is a meeting of once a year, and any other organ of the Olympic Committee could suggest this in its opinion. In the Group of Social Democrats, we propose these three amendments. And as I said in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, our support for this amendment of the law will also relate to how the National Assembly will decide on our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? Check-in is on. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Much could be said about these supplements, and this discussion would be linked to the usual topics that the Government opens when it intervenes in the management of various institutions that should be autonomous in nature. This foundation, like all others, should be far from the influence of policy and away from the influence of the Government, except, of course, in the part where the control of the use of these funds is concerned. I myself see in these changes and also in this proposed solution the wish expressed by the Government every time we receive in the National Assembly any law governing the allocation of funds or the provision of specific programmes or special tasks. That's why I think it's wise to support all those amendments here that don't limit the government, but the government is reducing the impact on the operation of these foundations as much as possible. The idea of this foundation at the time of its creation was very simple: to leave it to disabled and humanitarian organisations to take care of certain programmes themselves. In order to be able to provide for certain programmes, it was agreed that part of those benefits collected by the budget would be incurred in these foundations. In fact, this established a philosophy that people and their civil organizations can take care of themselves in their good work. This government obviously doesn't trust them. Instead of going this process of exercising autonomy in the opposite direction, we always return to the times we have tried to distance ourselves from them. That's why I find the SNS and DeSUS amendments intriguing here, in that it seems to me that DeSUS should consider whether it is even possible to complement them in this part when it comes to representativeness of disability organisations. I'm afraid it would be difficult to reach such a number of representative disability organisations and come across with possible other regulations. Otherwise, I will say, it practically sums up the solution to the management of this foundation by representatives of the same organisations. In this regard, I also find it somewhat unseemly that what colleague Bevk and his parliamentary group are proposing that we as a Parliament should intervene in this long-standing discussion between humanitarian and disability organisations, and we are trying, for such or other reasons, to change the relationship that is on our own and, on the other hand, when the end of the year ends, everyone is saying that this foundation is in a good way satisfying both the interests of each other and makes it possible to implement the programmes. If the National Assembly intervenes in this relationship in a way that will equalize the number of each and the other at a symbolic level, it is not possible to pretend that, as a result, this will also lead to a discussion as to whether the allocation of funds that remains intact will not come into line very quickly, and the National Assembly will certainly contribute to future disputes in this foundation. That is why I am reserved for this amendment, despite the fact that some of the arguments we have heard can also be accepted. However, I certainly think that it is necessary to support the first or the second one to get as close as possible to what they imagine to be, not only their right, but that it is the most appropriate right at this time. This has also proved to be quite effective. As far as international comparisons are concerned, this is also an example of how this works. Many in countries where gambling money is spent for other purposes point to Slovenia and say, "Look, that's how they solve these problems." From this point of view, when it comes to the issue of culture, which, for example, is largely powered by the British from gambling, and Minister Simoniti will have to pay a little more attention to our tax system and the facilitations that are possible there and see solutions elsewhere. If we had brought the third player to this pile of money, we would have made the same mistake I said earlier to see it in the Social Democrats' proposal. However, this is also worth the attention because we are meeting at this same meeting with an even more radical concept of state influence on the allocation of funds. This will be with the Book Agency. And if the government dared there to secure a majority influence, in this proposal it is dangerous to withdraw from that withdrawal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u55	Mr. Skull, I warned you earlier that we should discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u56	I'm saying, this amendment says Look, you're demanding some comparisons in these things and I'm only talking about comparisons, that in this supplement proposed by the Government, it's to feel that it wants a greater impact on the distribution of these funds. [[...]] I believe that attention should be paid to this, and I believe that such ideas should be rejected. I'll talk about everything else on Thursday, so there's no dispute. But on Thursday, it'll turn out that we're going to have to do a comparison. And if we are talking about how these institutions work, how specific funds work, how they deal with specific problems, then it is necessary to decide whether the state will fully take care of it and will essentially monitor it, whether we will actually give more freedom to those organisations and the people in them, in order to take more care of themselves. If there is a need to agree with the President of the Government and ministers who at times advocate liberal principles and then, of course, do anything else, it is necessary to create opportunities for people to take care of themselves. And such a foundation is an opportunity of this kind to allow the various organizations that are powered from it as freely as possible to regulate these things themselves. In this regard, I apologize if anyone thinks it's a waste of what's written here. But all these supplements actually revolve around to what extent they leave the management to those who are most interested. I call on the Government to leave this to the full, the most liberal spirit will show and the most opportunities will be given to the people who manage it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u57	Mr. Just Bevk, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would just like to make an explanation of the statement made by my fellow Member, Jožef Školč. The amendment of the Social Democrats' Group is exactly the same as the amendments of the Slovenian National Party, their parliamentary group, and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. All three parliamentary groups are essentially proposing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appoint 14 members on a proposal from the National Council of Disability Organisations and 11 members on a proposal from humanitarian organisations. If I read those three amendments correctly, then those numbers match. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u59	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. To a large extent, in explanation of the proposed amendments to the Law, the Government has made a good diagnosis in the sense that, of course, from the very beginning, the fundamental interest of all around the composition of the worlds has been the next phase in the law on the property transformation of the Loteria Slovenije. During the seven years of working in the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have met many times with a debate on correctness, fairness, regularity, the purpose of using funds in the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, and we have also adopted two laws. We have also changed the criteria on division and, of course, the Court of Auditors has had a number of comments that those who are beneficiaries of these funds on the one hand are also involved in the allocation process. Of course, I can appreciate that the government has made little effort to be more successful in therapy. It's very little written, given the diagnosis we've been given, what we're getting with this change. Therefore, the explanation of Article 1 is very modest, both in changing the composition of the world and in the sport sector. Here we are Members of Parliament before the dilemma: whether by amending this law we will contribute to the fact that we will not witness again major debates about the redistribution of funds in an unacceptable way. We have recently dealt with the FIHO report on the Committee and have again hit the same conflict that we have been listening to for years and years. And a letter sent to us by disabled organizations defends one position; defends one position, which is perfectly legitimate. And in fact, we need to know that we are doing step A today so that step B can happen tomorrow. Will not the changing composition of the world reach into the key of the distribution of these funds? Here I would expect a clearer and transparent response from the Government, because in this case the picture before the decisions would be much clearer and perhaps also answers to the amendments that are here - and in distinction there are different amendments, colleague Bevk, different in some details in the composition of the world of disabled organisations. Who can participate in the proposals? Is it just those who are in national interest or others? So representative, I apologize. And here before the Members there remains the dilemma that the Government has bitten into an acid apple, which it definitely is, and from this point of view it must be said that they are trying to regulate an area which today is the area of conflict. But is this what the government is doing with a proposal to reduce this dilemma and these conflicts? And if we ensure the inclusion of as much of civil society as possible, then it is right that the Government in the area of one proposal is trying to exert a possible greater influence. And here is the dilemma that we expect the Government to give clear answers, why, for example, it does not allow for a significantly greater balance between one and the other organisations - this is on the one hand the disabled, on the other hand the humanitarian ones - in creating, we can end up with proposals of criteria that will be decided on and decided on by this National Assembly, and in fact significantly more of their involvement in the correctness and fairness of the allocation of these funds. For a very poor journey of this Parliament will be if we make a change, and this change at a concrete implementation level will not bring any other than, say, "spetter". We on the Labour Committee, the family once again, when considering the FIHO business report, proposed that FIHO's operations be reviewed by the Court of Auditors. It is precisely from this fear and the pressure of those who feel that they cannot participate in these means, that the division is incorrect, to see whether Parliament has been able to remedy what certain users of these funds have reported through the changes in criteria. And here I think the proposaler's ambition is at least in explanation, with this diagnosis he's making, so it's a conflict of interest and that dissatisfaction and conflicting interests about the composition of the world can then be seen as crucial through division. And, of course, on the one hand, the Council of Disabled Organizations, whose signatory is Mr Šuštersič, who says that 65-35 is the only right recipe, is the question, given that it has held this kind of age, whether this is still the right relationship today. Here the government should respond correctly, as it is possible that the relationship can be further shifted to the world of disabled organisations, given that we are also amending other legislation that can give more or less support to humanitarian or disability organisations. In my opinion, however, this pressure is on the part of humanitarian organisations mainly because the availability of discussion within disability organisations has been very difficult. And there is an appeal that this space will have to be opened and that it will be possible to have as high-quality a discussion as possible within the users of these funds, which will then form the right decision for themselves. Otherwise, we will face the pressures of the civil public of various spheres, in a way that those who have the sense of being ousted also try to find a different solution through this internal agreement. And here it seems to me that the law in explanation is too weak for Members to have a clear assurance that these cases of conflicts of interest will be less than no more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself support the first amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party. In my explanation, I would like to highlight and present certain facts that we may not have heard before. I have already referred to the Committee to support pension organisations, which also receive a significant share of the money for their operations from this title. And it is then often in pensioners that there is a sense of why. And this division between disability and humanitarian organisations; for pensioners, even though they are disabled, but the disability rate occurred at the time after their retirement, they do not have the status of disabled persons and they can only provide for their disabled members through the funds they receive from humanitarian organisations. Humanitarian organisations have always taken care of others, taken care of the problems of others, and therefore I feel that it is okay for them to have the best conditions so that they can participate in the formulation of these conditions. Of course, on the other hand, the issue of disability organisations opens and we must not agree to become a judge between each other, because both types of organisations work well, in the interests of a group of people whom I objectively need to be taken care of and assessed in a very good and orderly manner. Through civil society, any contribution with charity and voluntary activities can be significantly more eloquent, and we can achieve significantly greater benefits than if any government organisation or any other, not least, profitable. And I've already indicated on the committee that, because of this, I suggested that FIHO, a foundation that is now de facto divided into two parts, we also formally do so - we formally divide into two parts. In this case, already this share of funds, which is pre-allocated, how much is going on for organizations that care for the disabled and for humanitarian organisations, so that, of course, these two foundations are first identified, remains a sports foundation, and in this way we cut off some kind of specificity created by the way these two foundations were established. And I am sure, then there will also be no possibility and there will be no reason why there is now a contradiction between the two types of organisations that are objectively required to work together and for which it is good if there is no friction between them, as this friction only contributes to less operationality and, last but not least, to their smaller reputation. I also support the assessment of colleague Tavševa that support was not signed by only small organisations, small companies. Therefore, she did not mention the Red Cross of Slovenia, which is certainly not a small organisation, which is certainly not an insignificant organization, which is a very important organization on a global scale and contributes greatly to the good organisation of humanitarian activities. Finally, support to the amendment that eliminates the anomaly that the Olympic Committee must elect its member at the assembly. It is certainly discriminatory here - why only the Olympic Committees must choose at the Assembly. There is no way we can agree to one of the explanations, one of the explanations, why by striving to achieve as much democracy as possible. I really want to know why only in the Olympic Committee we want this high degree of democracy, but other organisations can define and determine by their actions how they will choose their members and when we read it, at the outset maybe someone else had the feeling that it was just a lapsus and that then the proposed amendment was welcome to eliminate this anomaly, which the bill-maker could only write down, but when the amendment was rejected, then of course we have only two options: whether it was the right proposalr, in which case I suggest that you find the candidate who would be acceptable, or perhaps it was written by someone who was probably never at the Olympic Committee of Slovenia's meeting to know how things were going there, and I would see that it is totally unnecessary and totally inappropriate to make a decision there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. In fact, it is more of a controversy with some of the particulars that have been given here. I'm not going to quote people, I'm going to argue with the content. A few words about representativeness first. I think the whole point of being representative is to get enough of some tougher, sharper conditions. And those who fulfill these conditions get this opportunity. For this reason, I am convinced that the current solution, which, of course, implies representativeness, is more appropriate than that it should be withdrawn. Let me put it simply for all those who may now be following us: it is not the same if an organisation has 3 members or if it has 3 000 members and thus meets the conditions of representativeness, so it is clear that if this is to be properly regulated, this condition must also be met. Otherwise, the word "representative" basically means that you can then represent someone with credibility. Then, some concerns were expressed about possible staff exchanges. Now, of course it's legitimate, even understandable. However, I must say that it is a bit embarrassing if no one in these discussions has pointed out that, after the establishment of the competent services, in at least one case, someone has paid more than €2,000 a month without any legal basis, and now it is a matter of concern what would happen if any of these persons were ever replaced. In fact, we all know that there are three very sensitive areas: the disabled, the humanitarian organisations and the sports sector. And someone could have taken something from any of these areas without a legal basis, then, of course, it is for my firm conviction at least what we should pay attention to here today regardless of the Member's political option and Members, not to any other reason. But of course, everyone's looking at it from a valuable point of view. Then, as to sports, the idea was expressed that the congregation would decide. I must say that I cannot accept this, for all the sectors are represented in the congregation. In the Assembly it is more, if you want, a democratic representation of all parts of Slovenian sport and it is therefore more appropriate that it decides when it comes to key matters; that the Assembly therefore has the final word that there will be no such constant readings, since we have all received them today, which we are participating in today's debate in this Chamber, that in the past some of the industries have been in a prominently subordinate position, despite having achieved great international successes, and if you want, some of them can also be listed, but I firmly believe that this is not even necessary. For in the Assembly, once again, all the key sectors are equally represented and therefore the credibility of the decisions taken is certainly greater and there will certainly be fewer concerns on the basis of such decisions. In addition, I should point out that the solutions now proposed also allow for a much clearer, more legally correct, more transparent sharing procedures, and also for possible controls or procedures that would be followed in the event of a particular beneficiary's dissatisfaction with the decisions taken. In short, here is the possibility of control and all procedures, including legal, appropriate, and on this basis, I firmly believe that there should be no further problems. However, let me point out that this is an area in which, in one case, the Constitutional Court has also warned. As a result, a relatively large number of proceedings in the courts were taken into account. Well, then a few more words about civil society. Personally, I must say that I absolutely agree that civil society must play a major role and play a very important role in every democratic society. In the case of civil society in Slovenia, however, there is one problem that we face again and again with different angles and in some ways also has proved to be when we discussed this topic on the committee. Indeed, it is very embarrassing to hear from a former member of one party first and to make certain claims on behalf of civil society. And then she summarizes her words to the former president of the same party and, on behalf of another civil society or some other civil society organisation, puts in place some additional requirements for her. I can make them the best people in the world, but, you know, the point of civil society in some democratic order is that it's at a distance from any policy. In this way, civil society can develop fully and as long as the situation is such, but this is the product of a story that has lasted for many decades, it is necessary to do everything possible to enable civil society to breathe equally with its lungs, regardless of the fact that any part of this civil society is somewhere, let's say in the so-called continuity, an extremely political disgrace. In doing so, I should also point out that those who have now stressed civil society would be much more credible, but if they had raised their voice the most in the past days when a case had been exposed, not only that one part of civil society was obviously politically controlled over past periods, but when some part of civil society really became independent, it was being tried to control it and some vice-president of a political party allowed it to even abuse students for sending them as small spikes to see what was happening in the institution of civil society.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u65	What you are saying is not part of the debate on the amendment to Article 1. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u66	Of course, it is important because it is a matter of civil society which [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u67	I'm the one who warned you. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u68	I think you should have an echo in this National Assembly as well. [[....]] I'll get it over with. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The Minister wanted to, I give him my word, but otherwise the application is for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of questions and initiatives to which it is right to try to answer. More or less, all the comments went in the same direction. They wanted the debaters to prove that the state was trying or the government was trying to gain any better monopoly position. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u71	Mr. Minister, one technical, you have to turn it off first, please, and now turn it back on again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Is that better? I would like to point out that more or less all of you have tried to prove that the Government is also trying to increase the impact on the functioning of these civil society organisations, which we are talking about today or their foundations. The truth is different. The government is not trying to penetrate this important part of civil society life, on the contrary, we can say that Slovenia has a very good structure here compared to other countries, even neighbouring countries, where actual politics is strongly involved in the distribution or life of sport or disability-humanitarian organisations. We have already had a fairly autonomous case laid down under the old law, and we are still spreading this autonomy. The reasons for the need for novelties are quite familiar to you, from the fact that some of the founders no longer exist, to the need to adopt some legal basis so that the system will later work more transparently, more effectively and more legally. First of all, if you will allow me, Mrs Tavšev and others, who have proposed a change in the relationship within the structure itself. Negotiations or discussions with civil society partners, including humanitarian and disability organisations, have been held for a long time. What is proposed here is the maximum possible consensus or consensus we have received. At the outset, I said that our social partners, who agree to this division, also humanitarian organisations, had confirmed their signatures. And certainly does not hold your claim that Karitas opposes it. Finally, by signing, he gave his consent to such a proposal, as did the Red Cross, which was mentioned by Mr Slavinc's Member of Parliament. It is necessary to find a mechanism, one that will prevent one part of the organization from voting or imposing its will on others. This has been achieved through a system of two-thirds decision-making. There is simply no one who has more representatives in the world to vote another, but there will be an urgent need to come out of consensus and I hope that we have achieved this with this guardian. So the question is whether 14 or 16, this question, which was, once again, already agreed and harmonised, is less relevant. It is important that no one in these organizations will feel over-voted. And this protector, with this mechanism of two-thirds decision on key acts and documents and conclusions, I think this has been achieved. However, I am fully aware, and you are probably aware, that reopening this issue would relaunch multi-annual negotiations between the parties. I don't think we can land and support the amendments that interfere with this sensitive matter. As far as the civilian sphere is concerned, it remains dominant. It does not, in particular in the field of the Sports Foundation, hold the claim that the Government retains certain influences. That's not true. As a representative of the civil sport sphere, OKS has a remarkable influence not only by proposing itself but also indirectly through the Government's professional sports council, where it has almost half of its representatives and remains from the sport sphere. Here the government has not reserved any direct mechanisms of influence, nor does it need to do so. The sport sphere in Slovenia is qualified enough to self-regulation and self-governance. However, it is true that the legislator, and it is you, dear Members and Members, must create an appropriate, appropriate regulatory environment in which this system can operate, but also transparently and legally. I'm sure that's how it's gonna work in the future. We all know roughly where the stumbling blocks were, what was wrong in the past, and that's all we're trying to do and no increase in the influence of politics or even of day policies on the functioning of these links. For these reasons, as I mentioned earlier, we cannot support these amendments relating to the changed relationship. I also ask you to understand, this has been agreed, with the signatures confirmed, any new relationship would trigger new and new conflicts between these organisations. However, it is an integrated clear protector, this is a two-thirds decision, which means that no segment in these bodies will be over-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. It is a great honour and a pleasure to be able to welcome in our midst the delegation of the National Conference of Legislative Bodies of the United States of America, which is currently on a study visit to Slovenia, led by President Donna Stone. Dear guests and guests, I want a successful conversation and a pleasant stay in our country! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u74	Nicely greeted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u75	We're moving on with our work. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I only wanted two sentences. My colleague Germič said that we have set up the only recipe and the only commitment to humanitarian and disability organisations and set percentages. I object to this because we have already changed the percentages of funds shared between humanitarian and disability organisations in this mandate. I've already said before, but maybe I haven't had enough time since the foundation was established and since we first established the relationship, how the funds will be distributed, they've changed from 90:10, 75:25, and in this mandate we've changed resources, so the percentages between the humanitarian and the disabled to 65:35. And it's probably not a concrete thing, so we're probably going to be changing something ever again. It must be said, however, that disability organisations were initially two, today 17 are representative or 18, while they were humanitarian at the beginning of 3, so they were also included in the world of the Foundation, Karitas, the Red Cross and so forth, to date, 52. At the same time, it is necessary to know that the establishment of a disability organisation is likely to be different from the establishment of a humanitarian organisation. Therefore, the number of disabled organisations established in these good ten years does not increase significantly, as opposed to humanitarian ones. I am not saying that this is not necessary, that we do not need humanitarian organisations, but that in the spirit of righteousness we must look at this from a larger perspective. Perhaps there is something else about whether the Olympic Committees should decide at the congregation. If we look today at the composition of the world, which all sports are not included or whose representatives are not - by the Olympic Committee is proposed, the President of the Slovenian Ballar Association. This is great, we support the ballistics - no problem, but there is no room for basketball players, football players, handball players, hockey, volleyball, gymnastics, rowers and those who bring medals to Slovenia, and probably not quite right. It is also important to ask these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will also be brief, even though it seems that there is no need to speak now. Since the appearance of the Minister, it has been noted that the three amendments which have been tabled, which are very similar, although one is a significant difference, cannot receive sufficient support to be accepted. However, I would vote in favour of these amendments, for the second and third amendments, and for the amendments of the Slovenian National Parties if the other two could not be adopted. We think, too, that even though we are talking about 2/3 of the majority needed to make decisions, there is a certain imbalance in the composition. We can argue this by looking at the funds, as they were distributed in the past, if we look at activities as they were recorded in the past, so if we look at trends, we see that humanitarian organisations that involve many Slovenes and Slovenians - if we just take how many of those who are involved in the pension society, I think about 250 thousand - so they will not be adequately represented in this body. If our amendment had been adopted, we would probably have ensured a slightly more appropriate representation, and that is why I will support this amendment. The non-acceptance of this amendment will not make my vote valid for the law itself, but at least in my judgment and in the opinion of the DeSUS Group, the law could only be improved slightly by adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much. However, some of the uncertainties that have been evident from the explanation of a colleague in the ruling coalition need to be answered. I am aware and believe that the purpose of civil society in democratic society is to - I don't know - stay away from some policy, but the problem arises when a policy does not keep its distance from civil society. This is the segment that I think is more problematic and consciously implemented. Another thing about representation. At the beginning, when I tried to explain the amendment we had prepared, I said that the very explanation was very clear and extensive and I believe that those who took five minutes of time read the explanation understood the essence of representation. That's why deceiving, and I'll say, without one argument, is bad. Especially if it's a man sitting in a government party. I would like to point out that 16 representative disability organisations from 23 registered disability organisations have been registered with the competent ministry, and this is what we wanted to point out in the Slovenian National Party with this amendment. Only 23 are registered disability organisations and those not represented by this amendment are given the opportunity to cooperate in this way. It's not about 100 and a few organisations, societies and so on, as my colleague Grimes wanted to point out in his explanation. Once again, only 23 are registered disability organisations and only 23 registered disability organisations would be able to participate equally. I, too, by the Minister, have not received an answer to the question I have asked. If we leave the word'representative' inside, it is said that only 16 organisations have the possibility to participate from registered organisations, or this is not contrary to the Disability Organisations Act. In my explanation, I mentioned paragraphs 18 and 27 of the said Act. I ask, because Article 18 says, "State authorities and other public institutions are also obliged to disabled organisations which do not have representative status to provide an opportunity to present the interests and opinions of persons with disabilities." And then forward, this article is, in my opinion, very important, essential. Article 27 of the Act on Disability Organisations, which speaks among other things, "the representativeness of a disability organization does not constitute an advantage for the acquisition of funds from the Foundation". He's just saying "by the way." I have not received this answer, and I would also like to explain this answer. As regards once again the relationship or the elimination of the imbalance within membership, in particular between disability and humanitarian organisations. The current proposal sets out the ratio of 16 in favour of persons with disabilities to 9 in favour of humanitarian workers. We wanted to bring the amendment closer to this step, it says at 14: 11. I still think that the amendment we have drafted is much more meaningful than what is stated in the bill, even because of what I have mentioned at the outset, because the letter I received today also makes it clear with which the government solution was actually aligned.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. In this intervention, I would like to draw attention to some misleading arguments, and, I will say, this common beauty that we are dealing with when the Government is preparing changes that it says are not essential and that they are not directed against civil society. First of all, around these arguments that deceive. Here it was said how can you resist introducing changes that would allow for the replacement of those who have taken something unjustly. No one's against getting the money back unjustifiably. No one is opposed to initiating proceedings against people who have taken advantage of the rules. What's worth telling you is that there's no need to change the law. For this there is a large number of applicable rules. And, I'll say, this revolutionary logic, if, before that, it was a law, where it was legal, that someone could take it, and now we're changing it, and it won't be possible anymore, it's misleading. We are familiar with the case of the very proposal made by Mr Grims to draft a law so that he could replace the leadership of one of the public institutions prematurely. That is why we need to be careful. If something's wrong, there are regulations, so there's no need to change the law. Where would they have come if, for every violation, wherever it might have occurred, they had come to Parliament and demanded a change of law? Secondly, about the minister's fine talk, you're saying that they're wide open to civil society, so they don't interfere with it, so they don't try to penetrate it. I believe they're not trying anymore because the reputation of most people around the government is so low that they can't penetrate. That it is more a problem not to accept them as relevant interlocutors. But that's not the problem with these changes either. These changes do not talk about trying to penetrate somewhere, but I will say they are changing relations and it is important to be careful that the relations between those members that civil society can have, even if someone calls them so-called civil society, are changing, and those members that the Government has an influence on. Here the proposal for these amendments is questionable to me and I therefore oppose it. As it is said, you are changing relations in favour of the Government and entities to which the Government can influence. The fact that you can't penetrate somewhere, however, seems to me to indicate only the tenacity of these civil society organizations, not the ability of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! From the basic text of Article 1 of the Act, which we are considering today, I do not see any greater impact on the current Government than it has on the current law. Of all the amendments tabled by colleagues and colleagues from individual parliamentary groups, I do not see any reduction in the government's impact on individual decisions. We are talking about the composition of the foundation council, we are talking about two representatives of the government and we are talking about the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, their number and representation of individuals in the Foundation's bodies. Another thing I'd like to say. At this basic level, I find the amendment of the Slovenian National Party acceptable. I also understand the Minister's reasoning on why such a relationship with the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Why I find the amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 1 acceptable - for one simple reason, because it divides representatives of disability organisations and humanitarian organisations. Above all, I find it acceptable because it removes the provision in the basic text of the article under consideration, which refers to 16 members of representative disability organisations. And a colleague from the Slovenian National Party said that out of 23 disabled organisations registered, only 16 have representative status. Why? Probably due to irregular relations within disability organisations, at least I remember the mandate period 1996-2000, when we tried to regulate the law in the procedure of certain relations within these disability organisations. And the third thing I'd like to say is to my friend Sam Bevk. I do not understand his position, nor do I understand the position of the SD, which says that he is a lower body, but this is the Executive Committee of the Olympic Committee, more democratic than the Assembly, which I think 72 even sports organisations, and so on, and that their amendment in the basic text of Article 1 deletes the Assembly, which designates a member of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations. I'm sure it's a more democratic assembly, because it's broader because it represents all the sports, the executive committee, and I don't know how much membership it is, but it probably represents only some of the sports financed by these funds. For this reason - I will probably hear further explanations from the Minister or representative of the Government - I will support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. To Article 1(1). I see that there are no more stakeholders to discuss, so I am closing the debate on Article 1 and putting Article 5 and the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I conclude this debate and put to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Zares Group and the SD Group's amendment. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Article 7 is written as follows: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall appoint, within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Acting Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the Acting Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which is very unusual. In fact, Article 6 provides that the National Assembly shall appoint new members to the FIHO Council and the Sport Foundation within six months of the entry into force of this Act. Until the appointment of the new members of the Council, the Foundation shall carry out all the tasks of the current Council of the Foundation. It is said that there is no rapid procedure, but the normal composition of the Council of the two foundations within six months and then these new members will appoint the Director in both foundations; in FIHU and in the sports foundation. So that our proposal goes in this direction, until the saints, on the basis of Article 6, are appointed, the Directors of both foundations can carry out their work normally. Apparently, the government wants to replace both current directors after a very fast procedure in 30 days. I don't know why you didn't write "so" in Article 7, because between now and 30 days I don't know what the difference is, one month, and between one month and six months, there's quite a difference. And where does the rabbit go? On this point, in my view, there are now calls for the distribution of these funds. Disability organisations account for EUR 11 million 688 000; humanitarian organisations account for EUR 6 million 283 000 for 2008, sports organisations, almost EUR 7 million; and outside, there is a call for the construction of sports facilities for the period 2008-2010 totalling EUR 6 million 583 000. And it is obvious that it is necessary, before the tendering deadlines are completed or after these calls for proposals have been decided and when the funds are distributed, to place the two directors in the position of the people who will follow the example of the current government. However, if we waited for these six months, as is the case with the 6-month deadline for the National Assembly and the Government to appoint new members in the world of these foundations, these calls would have passed and the funds would have been distributed and the old directors would have had the influence that this coalition now obviously wants to get rid of and put on these two places of its staff choice. As it is said, it is a very large asset, for FIHO about 18 million tolars, 18 million euros. Thank you so much for the warning for my lapsus. - And in sports organizations for 12 million euros. Together to control the allocation of almost EUR 30 million. These are already decent money, and as you wish, the government wants to have full control of this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Scholch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, I hope you won't mind me returning from the east to what we heard earlier, if the Government really has no intention of interfering with this area. If this claim had been maintained, it would not have tried to enforce Article 7 as it was written. In this regard, I fully agree with my colleague Bevko. The truth of these changes is well realized in Article 7, which allows the Government to immediately and without reservation take over the distribution of money in all these three programmes. This is totally contrary to all that he says, preaches and promises both to disabled persons, to human beings and to athletes. And that's something that needs to be protested here. Of course, there's a coalition that assists the fat all the time. We have been in the process of appointing the Director of FIHA for a long time this proposal, where neither the Government nor the Government have raised any concerns about the candidacy and, of course, this was a unanimous proposal, has been repeatedly rejected. It is said that we are dealing here with a very clear policy of taking control of these assets on the one hand and behind this Pilateary washing of time and duality in front of the public. Mr. Minister went out at this point, but if he was here, I should explain it, he'd now take his other face to the lobby so that he wouldn't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Whether the minister is here or in the lobby, his presence or absence is now irrelevant. With regard to the deletion of Article 7, as proposed by the drafters of the Zares Group, and with this amendment, they wish to make it possible, as they themselves say, for the current Directors to complete their term of office within the prescribed time and thereby enable the continued work of their functions. We will reject this amendment in the New Slovenia Group. Why? The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia provides for the appointment, composition, mandate and powers of the councils and directors of both foundations. The suspension of the terms of office of members of the Boards and directors of the Foundations in that case is, however, legally permissible. The early termination of mandates will be regulated in the law, i.e. in a hierarchical legal act such as the one with which the Council and the Director are appointed. Also, in the New Slovenia Group, we find that the change in the law provides for a different composition of the worlds - i.e. we are all united in this - a slightly different process of appointing directors and the nature of the management of their function, before it was unprofessional, as we all know, it will now be professional. We therefore believe that there are also legitimate reasons for the early termination of the term of office of Directors. This will give an opportunity to prepare, in a responsible, professional and timely manner, all the necessary measures to implement the provisions of amendments and additions to the law and other legal acts relating to amendments and additions to this Act. The immediate professionalisation of the Director's post will, in our opinion, reduce the risk of the preparation and implementation of current calls for proposals and will take full responsibility for all processes within the Foundations. This also ensures a higher quality of work, transparency and expertise, greater operationality and, of course, greater responsibility, which is very important. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will not support the amendments to Article 7.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I think that the topic we are talking about, this amendment, which was also presented by colleague Bevk, I think some things are not entirely clear or otherwise understood. What are the responsibilities of the director, and what are the powers of the Council? I think you know what the mayor does in the local community: he carries out the conclusions of the municipal council. And the Director will have to implement the conclusions of this Council. That's how I understand this matter. If I'm wrong, tell me and correct my thinking. Finally, the fear that we are coming to the professionalisation of this area, which deals with such large resources, with such important areas as disability, humanity and sport, is logical to me. For so many disputes which are at this moment: irregular division, complaints, up, down, and so forth, and not least individuals had great power, but also were exceedingly well paid. The fees that have been paid insanely well - you know that. You don't know? And it's the right thing to do. It is right and for all good, all those who urgently need these funds, which most of them also use well for their mission in their areas, and I think that fear of this is unjustifiable, gentlemen, incorrect. We let people lead and decide, and these rules of the game, which are now set by the proponents, in my opinion and opinion, are generally acceptable. Surely, though, not for each individual, especially those who take some things, are paying a good fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u93	Replica, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We have such or other mayors, Comrade Janc, who can or cannot run their municipalities and not only depend on the wishes of the municipal council, but the mayors also play a very strong role in the local community and so do the directors. Nor does the Government always implement the policy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, or has much opposition in this House. With this amendment, we propose that until the new appointment of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, all tasks be performed by the Director of the Foundation so far. The newly appointed board of the two foundations should be appointed Directors within 60 days of the appointment of the Foundation Council. This would be some normal procedure as we know it under other similar arrangements. I don't know why this speed is so fast. In the end, let's say the term of office of directors of the Sports Foundation expires in February of the month, is in a few months. But where does the rabbit go? I looked at this tender documentation for the distribution of these six million 898 thousand dollars for 2008, and I keep going to these euros per head, but 6898 thousand euros, not tolars as I said before, for 2008. Look, the deadline for this invitation to tender is 15.11.2007. By 31 January 2008, it is necessary for the expert commissions to review all this material and take a decision for the Council of the Foundation to adopt a decision on the allocation of these funds by 28 February 2008. It is obvious that these deadlines make it very urgent to replace the director of the Sports Foundation, which we are opposed to by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. I'm going to support the amendment that's been filed here. I think that colleague Bevk has also demonstrated, on the basis of this, that there are different approaches to how this civil sphere should be regulated. If we allow the world to be transformed into a new composition in the six-month process, of course it is very interesting that, in the field of directors, we give the Government the opportunity to change the people who are running it very intensively in a very short time. Is it also possible to make a critical statement to the director of the Sports Foundation, who warned that the keys to the allocation of funds could only go by a different key, such as transparency, the openness of the priority of individual projects? Or is his critical word, which has also been repeatedly written in public in order to make it necessary, in fact, to make a director of the Council's decisions so quickly and in a moment, within 30 days. Here's the interesting thing: The government won't answer again. The bill, in its explanatory memorandum to Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9, very quickly states that new members of the boards of the two foundations and the perpetrator of the duties of the two foundations should be appointed, and a deadline is also set. Why should a change be made within such a very short period of time, giving you a 6-month deadline for the perpetrator of the duty? [[Ad in the background.]] It's a transition. But the transition could then be possible in the hands of both. I think that the arguments that Bevk was making are much closer to the truth than you are showing, where you are not actually showing any substantive argument, why it should be done in such short periods. The Director of the Foundation of Disability Organisations proposes to the Council in the National Assembly and here comes proposals. This means that Parliament needs to take responsibility and give the Government the authority to do so itself, so it appoints someone she likes. How else can it be understood that the role of Parliament, which has failed to create support for the proposed candidates to the Council, which will now be asked to propose proposals for the Director in 6 months when it is set up? The government and the majority coalition now assumes this authority to settle this issue in a single month, saying how it leaves the civil society spheres of disability, humanitarian and sports organisations to cover this area. You don't think we're so naive here that we can just believe in government proposals like this. Be assured, however, that you are not believed by those civil society, disability, humanitarian and sports organisations that you are convincing today to accept the best solution for their benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. In view of the desire expressed for further discussion with regard to Article 7, I am reopening the procedure for applications for discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. Two Members and the Minister applied for the debate. Minister, do you want to start or end? [[At the end.]] Then I give the floor to Ambassador Mitja Ljubeljska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I did not intend to come to the debate because, as it has been said, the law has very few members, in fact only five substantive and five transitional provisions, which are very clear. The key change I see is that the Director's position is professional, that a professional director should be obtained and that an existing Director also has the opportunity to become a professional director. It doesn't say anywhere that this director can't be a professional director. But he'll probably have to decide whether he's going to be a professor or a director. That's the point. Some of the assumptions about the allocation of funds in this article we are talking about are silent. But the discussion on the allocation of funds is in section 2 of the Act, which speaks of the financial plan, the final account and the rules governing the conditions, criteria and allocation of the assets of the function being decided by the Council of Competent Functions with a 2/3 majority. Don't talk about the fact that these funds are shared by the director. Not speaking, but the world of the foundation, both the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations and the world of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organizations. And also in Article 4, it speaks, in the last paragraph, that the Board of Competent Foundations shall conclude a contract with the Director to define the rights and duties of the Director. So once again, the foundation council will define what this director will do. And some guesses, if you do, it changes fast because now the funds are going to be distributed, not shared by the director. That's the core. But the law says that the director becomes a professional, and professional work is a little different than volunteer work. We probably agree with that. And it is desirable that the most responsible person, the executive, begin to perform these tasks professionally. Professionally - professionally - responsible, not volunteering. Some believe that it is hidden in this, the sharing of funds, it is in the hands of the world, the world of foundations. Let's be clear, let's stick to the law, let's see how the articles are written, let's be clear, let's be clear, let's be clear, let's be clear about how the articles are written, let's be clear, let's be clear, let's be clear, let's be clear. With all the experience, he probably has more options than any other candidate, so I don't think these insinuations and criticisms are appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much. But the word has been given by Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! For about an hour, maybe more, I listened to the leading cynic in this House, who was explaining to us and teaching us how politics, the party presidents of former Members, and other Members should not influence the functioning of civil society organisations. And I completely agree with that. I also fully agree with the fact that the Government does not have the right to intervene in the functioning, organisation and decision-making of civil society organisations and that this Article 7 is an exclusive example of cynicism not only of a Member but also of the Government itself. First, we listen to a minister explaining how the Government has no interest in affecting procedures within the Sport and Humanitarian Foundation, while at the same time reading that the Government will appoint for more than six months, logically, given that the Council of both foundations is to be replaced within six months, v.d. For God's sake, we've all grown up, we've all worked somewhere, and we all know what the role is, say, if we go back to work with a municipality operating under a new system, according to new laws, and the mayor is no longer the executive body of the municipal council, but the executive authority in the municipality and the same goes for the director of the municipal administration. He, along with his fellow workers, prepares everything necessary for the municipal council to decide on important matters and also gives the mayor the most important support. The same is true in foundations. The Director prepares all the material so that, together with his colleagues, he can, through the expert committees you have very nicely drawn and written at the Foundations, decide on the allocation of funds, saying that it is always the source of the decision of the Director and his closest associates, whether he is a professional or non-professional director. It doesn't matter at all. It would be better if you were professional, given that this is a very, very large amount of money. We have heard almost EUR 30 million from both foundations in the period up to 2010, by including investment funds from the sport foundation. So it's still important who appoints the director, even if only for eight months. And I think it's high time that this government comes to its senses once and begins to think that before the Slovenian public, obviously without any scruples, it goes and forms a staff composition of everything. I think even in Tromosta public toilets will start running those people the government will choose. I have to say that it doesn't work that way anymore and let you think that once you have to stop and think and say, is our image, I am speaking to the government now, really suitable for you to get anything else at the elections next year. Slovenians and Slovenians aren't stupid people. I think what you're doing today is another hole in those holes you've been digging yourself for three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The debate shall also include the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! I agree with the last statement that Slovenians and Slovenes are really not stupid and that we can separate good from bad, right from wrong. I'm sure they'll also adopt the new law before you. I would not discuss whether I was wrong about who was more penetrating civil society by politics and government in the past or in the present, or whether this government is doing so. I would like to stress, as before, that the purpose of this law is not to increase the influence of the Government, the executive branch, or the legislative authority. And if we propose here a change in the ratio of forces, for example, between humanitarian and disability organisations, this in itself means some attempt to influence policy on what monetary disability organisations have agreed between themselves. And these amendments mean that we do not allow them what they have agreed on. That's why the government opposes it. As for the question of directors, I would just like to repeat what the honourable Member Mr Ljubeljšek said. The fact is that in this transition, which is no more than 6 months, not 8 months, as you say, will elect a director, I find a logical and meaningful decision. And everyone has the right to run. If, for example, the director of the Sports Foundation manages to convince the Government that he has acted properly, transparently, that his business has been confirmed by an inspection as positive, for example, by the Ministry of Public Administration, if he has paid appropriate fees and awards, then he certainly has the possibility that he is chosen. But I personally don't think there's any big chance of running for office, which I think we both agree on. During this transitional period, the government will provide some normal conditions for the Foundation to function and will, of course, later leave it to the decision-making authorities. It should be reiterated, however, that this is a new systemic situation. These directors who are now will, of course, have to adopt the rules of the game that this law will bring. And I'm not sure they'll agree with them. This is certainly a matter of secondary importance now. Once this law is adopted, the Director's office will be completely different than it has been before, and it is perfectly logical that for this transitional period until a new Council is appointed, we will appoint a new Director on the basis of new legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then we open a new procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Sam Bevek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A well-respected choir. If the director doesn't have any powers, then why are you replacing him so quickly? That's a question for all of you. I would like to stress that the foundation is founded by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and also gives consent to the appointment of the Director. Under the new law, these powers are taken up by the National Assembly. The government will now give its consent and the estuary itself will determine, as this Article 7 says. Let me point out that this was specifically pointed out in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and I quote: "It is also disputed that the Government appoints it within 30 days of its entry into force [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's the law. [[...]] Although the director shall be appointed by the Board of Foundations and the Government shall only agree to such appointment." Even so far, the National Assembly has had these powers, and now the government has it all. And also this controversial appointment, which we are now discussing for a few minutes, has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and it would be wise for a government coalition to ever adopt an opinion of this service, even when it does not suit it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I think some colleagues may have overstated why we're giving the world so much time, while different criteria are different for the director. We know that it is probably not that simple and within one month it is possible to call on the bodies of individual disability organisations and other organisations, where they have to agree on the candidates they will propose, and it is therefore clear that it is normal for them to have a time in which they can adequately propose their candidates and, in fact, set up a new composition of the world. You mentioned that the terms of office were expiring, regardless of the law. So in February, I think that for the disabled before, and we could essentially run procedures for naming the old ones, because the world is in the old order, because someone has to take responsibility if not, after the mandate is over, we won't have someone to take over the tasks that someone should be doing. Therefore, it is logical to prepare for this time an arrangement that will last. In the meantime, a new world is allowed in order to be able to propose a director with whom it wants to work within the new composition. It would be a little strange that the old world might be able to collect proposals and propose someone who would be the director of another world. We're overreacting so little with these statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u108	The real cynicism is, when the minister says, we have to take matters into our hands, we don't trust things, we don't trust civil society when we sort things out, we're going to hand over what we have to do, and we've done it successfully over the years. How should this cynicism be if the proposal of the Council of one of the foundations in the National Assembly and led by the government coalition, with the Minister, is rejected twice or more, and now you are talking about how you will deal with this within one month. The Minister had in his programme to restrict or abolish civil society. Look at his interviews for [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the messenger of Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Clearly, it is necessary to recall the tactics of a new authority that has lasted for three years and has somehow become so self - conscious that we no longer warm it. But if I restore it for a little while. Where it was possible, then we called it tsunami, replacing people without legislative changes. Where this was not possible without legislative changes, this was done by amending laws. But the perversion of this provision, the well-respected minister, is so much greater because in the current legislation you have at least let the former, whether they were responsible editors or were other officials, have maintained or through the exercise of duties to change, to the arrival of others desired by the Government to do their duty. And now you can't take that short time in place for the doer of duty. Here's the perversion you set yourself. It is necessary to hurry, to rush to disability, to change the law quickly, to place the perpetrator of duty with his hands so that the other director can become again with your hands and your will. No, there's nothing wrong with turning this function into professional. It's wrong that you're saving her in an unprofessional way. There are no new circumstances, please, so that those people who have done this work can not continue to do so for this short period of time until the arrival of the desired people. What I'm saying is that you're already overreacting here in this hurricane that you're on a humane level, of course, you're closing the deal, and you need it in a quick way, Mr. Beast. It's not just here, it's somewhere else, we both know. For this reason, I find it pointless to invoke and justify this through new regulations and through the new rules that this law imposes, which would not be the other elements of the present, but still have to be laid down with your thirst. Please, this has gone too far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word is "minister of the Beast."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. But apparently not so sad, considering you're laughing when you're discussing these serious subjects. I may also understand the context of your debate. The whole story was set up by people from your political nest actually managing the entire sports system. Now you can trust me that this will not be the case and from no political nest, at least we are trying, so that in the future they will not control the sports scene as before. The greatest nonsense I've heard today came from the mouth of Ambassador Anderlich. That I now declared that I would end civil society is, of course, perversion, to think of saying that. I hope you can prove that to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Given that there is no longer a desire for a debate, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 9th item of the agenda. I thank the Minister and his team for their participation so far. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is a second-level proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the reverse law. We have one hour and 25 minutes of discussion scheduled for this point on the basis of previous applications. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and will be given the word mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on changes and additions to the craft law does not affect the special legal regime of trade, as it assesses that this part of the economy continues to need to be regulated by law, especially because it is a traditional activity, an economic activity which deserves a special place in the Slovenian legal system, because it is also a pillar of economic initiative and development and because it is a flexible and developing part of the Slovenian economy. However, we are following by law some measure to make it as easy as possible to enter the craftsmanship of the economy and thus to enable the faster and more efficient development of this sector. Therefore, the proposal for a law is without prejudice to the definition of craftsmanship and thus preserves the arrangements laid down and reached in the last novelty of 2004. The draft law consistently introduces the principle of removing administrative barriers, which means further reducing the administrative burden on economic operators. This eliminates the trade permit for activities for which a qualification condition will not be established, and in those activities where this qualification condition is the case, all administrative procedures relating to the performance of the master’s examination shall be abolished, as well as the material burden on the acquisition of the craftsman’s examination. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will establish, by special arrangement, trade activities for which it will not be necessary to meet the qualifications conditions, as well as for those in need of professional competence, indicating the appropriate minimum level of professional competence. In this context, the proposal for a law reduces the current qualification level for performing the craftsmanship test, which required secondary education, to the secondary level. A major change is also in the area of determining the mandatory membership contribution for the Chamber of Commerce, since this proposal provides for only one membership and we no longer have national and regional work. The introduction of one membership shall set out the maximum possible part of this membership, which shall also be intended by the Chamber of Commerce for the operation of the regional chambers of commerce. By law we have determined the proportion of membership that belongs, and it is divided in the ratio of 35% to 65% in favour of district trade chambers. The share of the membership fee for each district trade hall will be determined by the Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce, in which each district trade hall has its own representative, and thus all are represented. Given that the mandatory membership contribution is declining, we have also set the maximum possible membership fees, ranging from 10 to a maximum of 50 euros, according to the number of employees of independent entrepreneurs in the craftsperson. If I withdraw, it is a proposal that updates and relieves all those who wish to enter into craftsmanship. It relieves them both of formal entry conditions and of the necessary payment of a member’s contribution during operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u115	Minister, thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee of Ferri Horvat to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! At its 35th meeting, on 10 October 2007, the Committee on the Economy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the trade law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The meeting was attended by representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Economy, the Legislative and Legal Services of this Assembly, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, the amendments of the DeSUS Group, as summarized by the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce, the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce for amendments of the Committee and the views of the Chamber of Commerce on the amendments tabled. At its 30th meeting on 11 July 2007, on the basis of the request of the Group of Members, the National Assembly held its first consideration of the draft law and concluded that the proposal for a law was a suitable basis for further consideration. In considering the draft law on the Committee on the Economy, the proposaler's representative has taken the most important objectives and orientations of the bill, amendments and legislative additions, so I will not repeat this. In particular, the debate focused on the way in which trade activities were defined in Article 1 was discussed, and the discussion on Article 8 of the Act relating to the system of compulsory membership was more extensive. We also have before us an amendment from the coalition parliamentary groups proposing the deletion of Article 8, paragraph 9, relating to the enforcement of outstanding and outstanding obligations. After a thorough discussion, amendments were adopted which are included in the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report you have before you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you, too, for your introduction. I am informing you that, as has already been said, the 30th meeting of the assembly held its first reading of the bill has also made a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, which is why there is no presentation today. We are going straight to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be implemented, that is to say, the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 22.10. I am thus putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm opening an application procedure for discussion. Here you go. Mr Boztjan Zagorac was involved in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-General. We in the Slovenian National Party, I think years ago, indicated a tendency towards voluntary membership in certain chambers. The new Government and you, as Minister, have followed us in the field of the Chamber of Economics, and last but not least the same change would have taken place in the area of the Chamber of Agriculture. But I don't know, Mr. Secretary, what you're ascribeing to the need to remain a mandatory member of the Chamber of Commerce. If we look at the facts and the law as such, to which I must say that the Government did not foresee a general debate, even though turnover is one of the very important factors in this country and now with all the things that the law allows, trade and entrepreneurship are becoming very close to each other. It seems to me that when you have abolished the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, I must ask you whether the Government sees any additional interest, but that certain economic operators in this country can unite or reach out to just one chamber. Maybe it's some kind of spite. We have abolished the Chamber of Commerce, introduced it somewhere else and we wish that there would be a Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as it should be called, a new strong chamber that will operate hand in hand with the Government. Another matter of interest to me, Mr Minister, paragraph 5 of Article 4 of the Law says: "Segregated entrepreneurs and businesses", here we have already crossed this framework of trade "who have more than 10 employees, pay a maximum of 50 euros per month." At the first reading, Minister, I hope that you have checked this data, I told you that the posts for this membership have also received such institutions as the Ljubljana dairy establishments, which have thousands and more employees. Therefore, it seems to me that the Government does not follow all the trends it has indicated at the beginning of its mandate and in the Slovenian National Party we are still convinced that each chamber should receive voluntary membership, voluntary membership, according to the quality it provides to the users of this Chamber. The amendment, as tabled, if we are talking about the amendment to Article 8 tabled by colleagues from coalition parliamentary groups, is, I will say, some correction of a lapsus that seems to have occurred. They found, I can't believe, even after three months, that the execution of an unpaid membership fee for an individual craftsman has already been arranged elsewhere. It's like, I almost feel like an amendment like that when we get it on the bench, it's as valid as the moment Columbus discovered America. Sometimes it is necessary to read the law well in the first reading, but these anomalies would not have happened if the marriage were seriously prepared in a consistent, narrow society, as you usually do. And I find this amendment completely irrelevant. I still think it's better that it's written twice than it's not written. But all right, if you find out that this is already arranged elsewhere, let it be, and we'll delete this amendment. I don't think any of us here, 9, 10, as many of us as there are, have any reason not to support him if it's already arranged somewhere else. The important thing is that it will be implemented. But still to the Minister the question: Why this government strategy and strategy? We abolish mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce, in principle we should abolish mandatory membership in the Chamber of Agriculture, introduce or determine, or we do give this membership in half, this should be stressed, that is true, we are reducing the level of membership in the Chamber of Commerce, but we are still maintaining it. Above all, I am interested in the fact that this fifth indent of the fourth paragraph, which says - "segregated entrepreneurs and businesses equalise companies with independent entrepreneurs," which have 10 or more employees "Or "more" means also 1000, 1200 or 15 000. [[...]] In this case, it seems to me that we are working for someone who has 11 employees a small injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you very much. However, the Minister shall also be included in the debate. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Here were some questions that are more relevant to the general debate that the Members did not require in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, it was not. And there are some topics that have already been debated several times and it is only right for me to respond to them here at this plenary session. First time. Why a different or specific approach to each chamber? Because the chambers are also different and because they bring together different entities. The trade has a very important and long tradition in Slovenia. There is nothing new here, we are not introducing anything here, but we are improving or deregulation and reducing the burdens of the regulation so far. Why is a slightly different approach in the case of the Chamber of Commerce? Because we want to follow the interests and expectations of their members and entities in any regulation of organisation, that is to say, certain organisations. Therefore, in both cases, in the case of the Chamber of Commerce, we did a first analysis, a survey during the membership, and found out what members are expecting, what they stand for, and where their interests are. We'd like to see the boards of directors in terms of membership. And that's why it's different. In the case of the Chamber of Commerce, a very strong percentage of economic operators were against compulsory membership, i.e. voluntary membership, which is why we have introduced this. In the case of the Chamber of Commerce it was different, there was a convincing majority, around 60% of the members were in principle required to maintain the current system: mandatory membership for the minimum part of the general services related to information, representation of interests and paid individual services on a non-profit basis. And that's what we're putting in. We lower our membership fee, even set only a limit, top of our membership for each category, give even the congregation the opportunity and all the members to lower it. If the Chamber of Commerce decides at the Assembly, the membership may also be nothing. That's allowed. We leave the decision on the level of membership to the Assembly, and at the same time limit it up, limit it up. And I think that this is an important step towards representing the interests and views of the members. Maybe another argument, why a slightly different approach. The turnover usually brings together small economic operators. In a craftsmanship they cannot carry out the activities that you have named, say, the Ljubljana dairy, not the Viator-Vector, not the SCT and so on. It is not possible to work in a craftsman's way here, because it brings together enormous numbers and they are not members of the Chamber of Commerce since 2004. No, you have the wrong information, I'm sorry. After 2004, anyone who does not engage in craftsmanship as a major activity and does not carry out it on a permanent basis can perform it only to a small extent on the part of Namreč, what have the dairy activities that you have highlighted done? [[...]] They also dealt with the operation of mechanical repairs of motor vehicles and the installation of parts for additional equipment in motor vehicles. That's what they did because they had it registered. This is a trade activity and therefore they were initially involved before 2004. However, since 2004, a novelty has come to say that all those activities which are not managed by or managed by a company on a permanent basis only to a small extent do not engage in a trade activity, nor does it need to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce. The same was true of the Post Office of Slovenia, Petrol, SCT and similar. I've said it over and over and over again in this place. You are right, these companies do not actually engage in craftsmanship or craftsmanship. As far as one more argument is concerned, as far as craftsmanship is concerned. As a rule, these activities do not have their own services within an economic operator who can take care of, say, legal issues, human resources issues and so on. The craftsmen tend to focus on their basic activity and need the service provided by the Regional Chamber of Commerce as well as the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Therefore, they are also slightly different from those of economic operators. For example, Gorenje, Krka, Luka Koper, these major economic operators have many of their own internal services that care for a wide variety of areas that do not belong to the core activity of these economic operators. The craftsman can't do that. And when we talk about association, economic association, because of the nature and size of the economic operator, it is perfectly logical that solutions are also different and specific. And that's the key reason. So much so far, and if necessary, I will complete this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac applied for the debate. As I see the desire to discuss it, we are opening the procedure. Here you go. We have seven Members of Parliament who have been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Maybe the answer is why membership remains mandatory. The government has seen the mistake of demolishing the Chamber of Commerce with voluntary membership and fortunately does not want to repeat this error now at the Chamber of Commerce and probably will not be in the agricultural or agri-agricultural chamber. However, I welcome, they will also coordinate the level of membership there, as they are now here. In the law itself, however, I am concerned that certain conditions regarding who can carry out an activity, what kind of activity, and what kind of trade are being abolished again. And believe this, there is no point in promoting vocational schools, there is no point in encouraging schools that are already maturing with low enrollment, and know that this does not contribute to the improvement of craftsmanship. It is also fortunate that in some areas, the craftsman’s law leaves a master’s test so that the Chamber of Commerce can handle its own staff. However, once again, this is not in the direction of improving the situation in the human resources market. This is not in the direction of making it easier for craftsmen to find the necessary personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. If I have the right information, and I think I have it, we have an amendment to Article 8. There's no debate today, there's no more, we've put it all through. The amendment is only coalition and that's all we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. That now the debate on fundamentals or I can speak to the end, Mr Anderlich! [[...]] That's the question of a craftsman's marriage. I think we've been through this before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u125	Hey, buddy, let me run this meeting. It was properly established. Today we are in a phase where we are talking only about the amendment to Article 8. I therefore ask all future debaters to stick to the rules of procedure and to the content of the proposed 8th amendment. We continue the debate. Another procedural proposal? Do you have a replica? Who? On a procedural proposal. I'm sorry, you know that doesn't exist. Member Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I, too, was about to warn my colleagues in the introduction that we were not sticking to the actual amendment. I'll be very specific, we're talking about Article 8. First of all, I would say that there has been a lot of debate about this article in previous discussions on the Committee. The only thing that's left inconsequential is the one thing we're now making. The conclusion is that the solution is not systemic. In accordance with the applicable Commercial Chamber Act, the procedure for payment of membership is governed by administrative procedure, which means that decisions are issued in an administrative procedure, which also means that complaints and further proceedings, including enforcement, are carried out in accordance with this Act. In the existing law, the enforcement of monetary obligations shall be carried out by the tax authority in accordance with the procedure prescribed for the enforcement of tax obligations. This matter is actually resolved in the basic law and I think that this amendment also resolves it, but this is also in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, so we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much. However, the word is given by the Member of the Council of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you once again for your word, Madam President. Very briefly. I don't know, Comrade Krivec, when you said you were warning your colleagues, you probably thought Mr Slavinac, who is alone, because we all talked about Article 8 and Article 8 also included membership. Unless you were thinking of me and the minister, because we were talking maybe at one point, or the minister was speaking at one point a little wider. And I thank you for that, if you have also mentioned the Minister, and for your consistency. Dear Mr. Minister, one thing really doesn't work for me when you said "big systems aren't members of the Chamber of Commerce because they can't be". Today you directly condemned Slovenian media, which, among other things, wrote that members of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are also companies such as Ljubljanske mlekarne, SCT, Viator Vector and some others. Slovenian media no longer report consistently and nationally and in truth, because you have other data. I tell you, I have the information myself, I can confirm and show you that the Ljubljana dairy have received the position as part of the membership fee for the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. They employ more than 10 employees, and in this case there was no breach of legislation, because you have written so softly, so indistinctly, so unconsistently - "segregated entrepreneurs and companies", that the "souls report" of the Ljubljana dairy companies are an economic company, employing more than 50 employees, get a ticket in accordance with the law. That's right, it's just not the same as paying 50 euros for someone who has 11 employees or someone who has 1,200 employees. That's not right. Nor is it right that you do not adhere to the principle that compulsory assembly membership, regardless of the chamber, should be abolished, for all equality before the law, which is also laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but, among other things, you allow for voluntary membership, but also compulsory membership. And who is powered by compulsory membership?Oh, my God! I don't know how many times we've had this. Those quasi professional officials sitting in warm rooms for an hour a day, although they have an 8-hour worker and do not offer economic operators, independent entrepreneurs and craftsmen anything. Believe me, it's nothing. True, the survey was done when the result was, Minister, you said, something over 60, more specifically, it was 62.3 to 37.7. But then you really did this poll and you sent it to hard craftsmen, those craftsmen who have up to five employees. So, five people can be one, and I'll do my homework by saying, "foha" is a good craftsman, but the rest is a company from there. That's why your explanation, Minister, does not "sit down" me. In the Slovenian National Party, we still advocate equality before the law and the abolition of compulsory membership. It is up to individuals to decide for themselves whether or not they will be the highest bidders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much. A fellow Slavinec signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'm taking advantage of this procedural option for a replica and I'm going to link myself to what was said before. Yes, of course, see, in this article, which we are discussing, which is an amendment, is a speech on membership, and part of this membership is also devoted to education. In this context, then, my debate on the education I was talking about before was also held, and really it is only a matter of interpretation. Of course, I welcome the position of the President, who has interpreted this broad enough to explain the way I see it. I do not agree, however, that the chamber offers nothing. Last but not least, two weeks from now, the award of master's degrees will be organised, organised and awarded by this Chamber. I invite my colleague to attend, to see and see how important the mission in the field of education, if I now restrict myself to this area, is being carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you, too. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Well, I must say that I am pleased that in this Article 8 of the law, to which the proposed amendment also applies, there is a written content, which in fact means some compromise between the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the regional chambers of commerce and, at the final stage, among the craftsmen, that this was also a matter of negotiation at the stage of the adoption of the law. And I firmly believe that now this prepared material also means a good journey for craftsmen. However, this amendment is only an editorial nature, or a comment by the Legislative and Legal Service, and I will support it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Rudi Veršnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister and his associates! See, coordination in the field of craftsrooms was urgently needed. Mr Minister himself said that it doesn't matter which chamber we are dealing with. And I'm sure the only thing that makes sense is the proposal that's here in this marriage. I don't know, some people don't understand that there's a big difference between chambers, between economic and craftsmanship. In fact, the Chamber of Commerce came from a time when no craftsmanship was even desirable and this connection between individual craftsmen was much greater, and I am not surprised that the representatives of the District Chambers invited us to the interviews and also explained what they were actually doing. And I'm not surprised that this difference has arisen. And I think that under this Article 8 this membership and also the amendment is in the right direction, and I don't think there's a problem with the voice itself, I'm sure I'll give it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor by inviting Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the chairman, and a greeting to the Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! As far as this article is concerned, I think the issue of membership has been urgently resolved, and I think that this law is a good solution to the issue of membership in the Chamber of Commerce. It is necessary to know that in the past we had two memberships, according to national and regional levels, and that in Slovenia the difference in membership was very large, sometimes two and a half times higher than those that had the lowest. Thus, I think it is important that only one membership and a uniform amount of membership for the territory of Slovenia are now in place. It is also important that this membership, that the agreed ratio of division 65:35 is in favour of the local level or regional chambers, by allowing the Assembly to - say plus minus five - that the Assembly has the option of deciding by 10%. I think that this is very good and that there will also be a certain measure of solidarity here, which is undoubtedly necessary if we know that in less developed areas there are also fewer rotations and that there is also a need to help these areas from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. And so far, the last person to be reported has the word of Ambassador Willy Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Well, I'm going back to the amendment that talks about how to execute and who to execute this execution. And this is conditioned by some preliminary event, which speaks of the fact that the proposaler did not make this up, but that there was a problem with enforcement in the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. And from here on, it summed up this economy, which has obviously felt this decline in recovery and suggested that this should be regulated in this law if the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia no longer does so. This is perfectly logical and, in the case of the implementation of due and unpaid obligations, it is necessary to ask which obligations - mainly those of membership. Therefore, it is also worth talking about the membership to which the membership relates and the mandatory membership and what would actually be with the Chamber of Commerce if there were no such compulsory membership. I am afraid that the chamber would be so decimated that there would no longer be anything to recover and it would be a question of who else would be a representative of the interests of those who are now joining in the Chamber of Commerce. Well, it was an economy united in the Chamber of Commerce that supported everything, both compulsory membership and membership, but it did not support certain other things. And that is all I have to say, but where is the real flaw in this law - the economy and also some Members have questioned the correctness and appropriateness of lowering the level of education to enter into trade, we have not all agreed with these NTKs, which have become equivalent to professional diplomas, and we have not agreed that both the craftsmen and the Chamber of Commerce have been evicted from the opportunity to co-form A and B.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Just a few answers to your questions. First of all, Mr Slavinac mentioned that he was supposed to see a mistake in tearing down the Chamber of Commerce, and we don't want that. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] This is one of the biggest nonsensees and, obviously, Mr Slavinec is not faced with the renovation of the Chamber of Economics and the position of the Chamber of Economics. [[...]] At the last economic summit, the President of the Chamber of Economics, Mr Pavček, made it very clear that they do not want to go back to see that the path followed by the new Chamber of Economics, the reformed Chamber of Economics, is successful and, of course, they are already recording the positive results of this renovation. So, I see that some people are still living in that debate, the world when we discussed the renovations years ago, and I would advise that they are a little bit more in contact with the economy, if they are also commenting on such proposals as are before us today. That's the first thing. The other thing is, I can't help but understand that the Liberal Party is opposed to deregulation. To prevent the reduction of bureaucratic barriers to entry into economic or craft activity, as it is said to oppose the reduction of the conditions for entry into craftsmanship. In short, these are very strange things and against all policies of all governments that want to provide a more competitive economic environment or a better environment for the development of all economic operators. Slovenia is typically known as an entrepreneurial underactive, few of our people choose to enter the economy, to carry out their own activities. And it is precisely by lowering some entry barriers and by cheapering this that we want to make this possible to a greater extent. Mr Zagorac, large economic operators may be members of the Chamber of Commerce if they wish to be. And if some major economic operators wanted to remain members of the Chamber of Commerce and did not make a withdrawal declaration that they did not want to be after 2004, they are still members of the Chamber of Commerce. But that doesn't mean they have to be. The same principle also applies to the Chamber of Commerce following an amendment. Indeed, all economic operators wishing to withdraw from compulsory membership had to communicate this in some way. And also any economic operator who is not required under the 2004 amendment of the 2004 Act has had a dilemma whether or not he wants to stay or whether, for example, he has overlooked this possibility and was still a member of the Chamber of Commerce, even though he does not need to be. So it can be that large entities are members of the Chamber of Commerce if that's what they want to be. But if they do not want to be, let them report it in writing, or they have already done so, and they will also be removed from membership. One more thing. In particular, you mentioned those economic operators that are large, over 10 employees. This is an exception in the Chamber of Commerce before the rule. Only 5.8% of all members of the Chamber of Commerce have 10 or more employees. The majority are self-employed and those with up to 3 employees. Because logically, these are actually craftsmanship and we accept the law for you. We do not take for those who can - because as a rule, they do not perform their activities in a craftsmanship, as a rule. This is also shown by the statistics on membership in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Very briefly. Not 5,8, but 6,4 according to the latest statistics, Minister - a positive trend in the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce, which I fully agree with. And I'm wondering why you didn't continue it in the craftsmanship if it's a positive trend that you're referring to. And lowering entry barriers is a fact that is supposed to accelerate the development of a particular economy, then I wonder why you have not completely removed this entry barrier in craftsmen, why you are still maintaining it to a certain extent. And once again, it is not the same for 11 employees as for 1,200 or more employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The Minister has signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u144	Once again, although I think I have explained several times the reasons for the different approach to the Chamber of Commerce and why a different approach to economics. It is a matter of different economic operators. It's a completely different tradition, too. This is a business activity for those who are mainly engaged in their core activity, neither with human resources nor with the knowledge that they would care for a number of other activities that are part of the mandatory content of all economic activities. Once again, large companies can have all the services available: legal services, human resources services, financial services and so on, craftsmen of course not. And so it is right that through association, through the chamber, they also combine this knowledge, this information that they are informed and so on. That's one of the typical differences. The second difference is that the craftsmen generally came out, and the craftsmen's chamber, from the bottom up. District chambers were first established, associations were first developed due to the wish of craftsmen at a lower level and then merged at national level. Not by decree, as the Chamber of Commerce has created. So, even the origin, history is different and a series of such things. These are the reasons why - and also this reason, not least because members want to do so in the majority. In most cases, craftsmen expressed their interest differently as members of the Chamber of Commerce. So why would the government handle this issue differently than the majority of craftsmen do? And of course we haven't done that and we're not going to do any of those things that we wouldn't have any support for in those that we're actually dealing with. And that. Why haven't we completely liberalized the conditions for entry? That's because we didn't want to hurt all those schools that are creating jobs to enter craftsmanship. We will not deregulation this area, and in this way we will also question or question the existence of certain vocational schools. On the other hand, as regards craftsmanship, they will remain where they are and will require a trade permit for those related to human health and life, property and not least environmental protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Do you have a wish after the debate, Comrade Gantar? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ♪ I've always been ♪ [[.....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u147	Yes, I have to take your word for it. Time has run out for your task force. Thank you very much for your intention. We'll remember the next treatment. So, as a matter of fact, I'm closing the debate. However, the amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's a second defensive proposal for a law on digital radio fusion. I warn everyone that we have two hours and 10 minutes of time scheduled for this point. The draft law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Minister Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy, will give an introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u148	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal of the Digital Broadcasting Act regulates this area of digital broadcasting and the main objective is to ensure an effective transition, i.e. a broadcasting signal from analogue to digital and any changes that are technically and organisationally necessary for this transition. This transition also allows the use of a radio spectrum that will relax. This will be available to new services, enabling the creation of new markets, thereby increasing some new economic initiatives or enabling new economic initiatives and ensuring economic growth. This and the use of this spectrum are, last but not least, very intensive discussions within the European Community. In addition to the transition from analogue broadcasting to digital broadcasting, some other issues, such as the planning and construction of digital broadcasting networks, are regulated in more detail by the broadcasting process itself. It is further regulated to manage or limit multiplex in relation to this operation, as well as to promote the spread of digital broadcasting itself, such as consumer incentives or co-financing for the planning and construction of digital broadcasting networks. The law is in no way affected by the regulation of programme content, i.e. the content itself, but of course this transition allows room for the development of these. The law governing electronic communications and the law governing the media will also be applied subsidiaryly when the law is in force. We wanted to regulate this issue in the Law on Electronic Communications, because the Law on Electronic Communications is very complex and it would be relatively difficult to integrate these contents into that law, and even after our assessment it would be unnecessary. The law also went through a number of expert analyses, comments, at public hearing in February, and is inter-sectorally harmonised. Last but not least, he's been pretty premeditated. We also agree with the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Economy. An amendment was tabled by the Zares Group proposing a new ninth paragraph to Article 29. We estimate that this amendment is substantively justified as it prevents part of the population from being unable to receive a signal for digital broadcasting at the time of the excavation of analogue broadcasting. And the honourable Presidents, given that there is only one amendment to a relatively extensive law, and this one can also be adopted, we propose that at the same meeting of the National Assembly a third one be considered in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u149	Of course, Minister, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will take your will into account after the vote on the amendment today. As stated in the proposal for a law, the Committee on the Economy has also regarded it as a parent labour force. Once again, I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you again for the word, chairman. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! My report will be brief, because there are not so many open cases, and I would not like to comment here in more detail on the report itself and the debates and the debates on the amendments. All of this is described in the report. There has been some debate so far. The Committee considered the working body at the 35th meeting of the draft law. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and, pursuant to this opinion, amendments were prepared and adopted. The Committee has also received a meeting of the amendment committee of the fellow Member of Parliament, Dr Ganttar, and there will also be a debate on one amendment here. The representative of the proposer presented the basic objectives of the law. Again, I will not repeat what the motioner himself said in the introduction, Mr Minister. In the report, you have a more detailed summary of the debate and the decisions on the amendments that have been tabled and the proposals for the amendments adopted, which are, as usual, included in the amended bill and are an integral part of the report that you have before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group of Members. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have already presented the curves from the use of analogue links in the Slovenian National Party both at the parliamentary session and at the meeting of the parent working body, and I would like to point out once again that these are new convergence technologies for wireless transmission and that this is indeed to be supported, we know that this is a necessity. And yet, guilt exists and is irreparable. The accounts that have been exposed in the past to analogue users are today before they are forcibly recovered in the courts. I have also warned the Minister about this, and it has been promised that at least for the part where there has been no protection against incursion for users, this injustice will be corrected. Millions of dollars have been exhibited, but so far this has not happened. If we look at the law itself, as has already been said, it allows for a new wireless transfer technology, but with the current government control of the media and greater interventions into freedom of expression, censorship, it is just a farce. Of course, there is no protection, and so do journalists. At the same time, the applicant forgets the mandatory costs that households will have when purchasing new digital receivers. These are the facts. If we are saying that sooner or later they will have to reject old receivers and use new technology that will support digital broadcasting, then it is normal that this will burden the one most socially threatened, these are lower-layer households. Of course, if we take a closer look at this law, it has several amendments. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not intend to oppose what is essentially good for the future, but we would like to draw attention to the mistakes that the law has overlooked in the stage of creation despite warnings. The errors that have arisen either in users who have the option of using existing analogue links, in particular those that offer this service, were in fact completely non-binding to users. And the fact is that it is these environments that will also now want profitability, and the cost will be charged to households. I think that this is wrong and the injustices of the past will have to be corrected by exempting the household from that part of the costs of accounts for which they are not themselves responsible. That's my minister, I think he's already promised.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The proposer proposed to us for consideration and adoption a law that, together with the Law on Media and the Law on Electronic Communications in the sense of subsidiarity, will try to regulate the area we are talking about. In fact, this law on digital broadcasting is talking about the fact that there is a crowd in this area, that there has been some saturation, that there is some subjugation that actually does not allow for adequate development if there is no change and no longer offers new services, new products. Therefore, the need for technical and technological upgrades is more than obvious. This must also be linked to all appropriate legislation that will first enable, encourage and later regulate the relations between those actors who will be key factors in this area. This is about how the radio spectrum will be used, and it is about regulating the relations between these users, as well as the relations between users and the country. The objectives set by the proposer here are the gradual introduction of digital technology into this area, while the introduction of digital technology will also work for some time analogous and both technologies will need to be coordinated at the same time, and ultimately, as it says, we anticipate a phase-out and thus opening up a new space or a smaller saturisation of this area. The effects, as also stated in the material we received, are expected to be in some digital dividend. This digital dividend will not be released when it is analogous to the space now occupied by analogy, not only in technical and technological modernisation, but also in terms of better quality of transfer, greater efficiency, the introduction of new services will be possible, and some other consequences will be non-technical and technological. In particular, it is important that a greater room for pluralisation is opened up, that greater accessibility is made possible, that greater wealth of content is also possible, and it is predicted that this will also allow those who need this space for local information and for local content. So the consequences will also be social and also cultural. That's probably what this is about getting this digital dividend. There will certainly be some effect in the economic field; when new services are offered, new products, by allowing new economic growth in this way, may also be employment. And they're going to be very direct and they're going to be financial effects. Firstly, for a country that promises to allocate the funds it will receive as compensation to those already mentioned today, the social status will not be able to afford this new technology immediately. Secondly, only in exceptional cases will part of these funds be earmarked for investments in this area. In financial terms, APEK, the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications on this frequency, and something will, and it will probably be useful for our Radiotelevision, will also get it, because infrastructure ownership will be able to offer operators compensation for payment. Therefore, since the effects foreseen are positive, the DeSUS Group will also support the proposal for a Digital Broadcasting Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Member Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! The proposal for a Digital Broadcasting Act itself regulates the conditions and modalities for the introduction of digital broadcasting in the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions of rights and obligations related to digital broadcasting. It introduces changes in the management of the radio spectrum and regulates the gradual transition from analogue to digital broadcasting, the final objective of which is to eliminate technologically outdated and non-optimal analogue broadcasting over the period of two broadcasts. The central principle pursued by law is the principle of continuity or availability of a broadcasting signal. In addition, it is important to ensure that the transition is gradual when, by means of simultaneous transmission periods, service providers and users are able to adapt gradually to broadcasting in digital technology, both in analogue and digital techniques. The following principle, followed by law, is the provision of at least an existing framework, media plurality and the diversity of programming content. Since digital broadcasting allows for a greater supply of these in a narrower part of the spectrum, it is a suggestion by the proposer that widespread plurality is enabled as well as a variety of content, even more so than in the current technique. Digital broadcasting enables more usability of the radio spectrum. This increases the possibility of its use for new services or an increased supply of current content. It gives space to new and convergence wireless transmission technologies that are the basis for the development of new services, which can create added value and higher economic growth. In so doing, let me mention that we will also support the amendment we have on the table by the Zares Group, so with all the arguments that are fully in favour of the proposal for the Digital Broadcasting Act, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports that proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Kumer will give his position to the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Respectable coworkers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Vice-President, President! Did I say it right now? In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a Digital Broadcasting Act, assuming and with some minimum hope that the proposer will take into account some of the amendments arising from the proposed amendment. Otherwise, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is no longer possible to avoid an early change in the technical way in which the broadcasting signal can be distributed from analogue to digital. For if we want to technologically follow trends that result in greater efficiency, lower costs in the future, and especially greater utility for ever-new and new services and content that knock on the door of the frequency belts, then we hunt the last train, but live, and we will be even more in the abyss of all possible information and data, and it is essential to adapt to this fact also technical capabilities. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the government's decision to adopt a special law and not to supplement the Law on Electronic Communications. At the same time, we point out that it is now also an opportunity to correct some of the inequalities among the population currently in place at the time of the analog signal. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the amendment of the Zares Group, which proposes that a multiplex operator dedicated to public broadcasting must provide 95% coverage on the date of the implementation of this law in a specific geographical area. We believe that if we are already exposing new technical capabilities, then we need to set ourselves higher targets than the current state, which is 90%. This does not mean that future reductions in digital broadcasting need to be made if the environment is already being set for that little analogue signal. In short, the main operator, who will also be in the future obviously transmitters and connections, must be and is able to cover up to 95% of the territory or 95% of the population. In this way, all those who today are unable to monitor some of the content that, for example, have been canceled by national television recently, such as the football champions league, because it has a TV3 programme that covers only 50% of the analogue signal and so on. When digital broadcasting is established, TV3 and all other operators will no longer be able to say that they do not have a network, but will be easy and will also be able to pay for their stay with the main operator, according to Radios and Links. And that is why it is important that we have a higher objective than the current situation. Last but not least, we are obliged to do this for the people of this country, who were forced by the decree to pay RTV taxes, because they have an electric counter, whether they live in Ljubljana or in Draga or in Lazc, these are two villages from Loško Potok to the Croatian border. They also pay EUR 11 RTV tax as in Ljubljana and, of course, the ratings are radically distorted. In short, it is the fact that other operators with less coverage are given the opportunity to provide some content, programs, I myself mentioned the football championship league, to the largest possible number of the population. So, in the Group of the Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Only a small personal desire: perhaps the state will find a mechanism to ensure that the subsidy is paid to those households, it is said, a broad consumption that could not possibly be used by its TV or radio receivers after the digital signal has been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Slavinec will present the position of the LDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! The European Union in the field of radio and television digitisation is not leading the world and Slovenia is not among the first, so it is a welcome law that will accelerate the transition to digital broadcasting and create the necessary infrastructure in our country. In the LDS, we therefore agree to regulate the transition from analogue transmission to digital signal by special law. However, the law should be without prejudice to the scope of the Law on Electronic Communications and the field of the Media Act, which is not fully applicable to the proposal under consideration. In the absence of a general discussion on the proposal, I would like to draw attention to some of the general comments that we have before the legislative text at the LDS. First, we estimate that the law should strictly ensure the neutrality of technologies and regulate only the necessary measures and create market conditions, which this law does not fully allow. Furthermore, the proposal for a law does not show a clear strategy, does not define the way or procedure of transition, there is no guidance on how to meet geographical and technical requirements, nor does it determine the mutual financial obligations of individual actors, which may lead to discrimination and the monopoly of some. It is not clear from the legal text whether deadlines and transitional periods are unrealistically set, i.e. deadlines. There is also no clear definition of the transition process, the deadline by which the transition is completed and how it will be after the transition to digital broadcasting. The law is supposed to regulate the transitional period and, in our opinion, it is premature and inappropriate to plan some new services that are not even allowed and harmonised at the level of the whole European Union for once in this part of the spectrum and are at the same time inconsistent with the Electronic Communications Act. It is also totally inappropriate to define and apply certain standards in the law, as the law should follow the principle of technological neutrality. One key part of the transition to digital broadcasting is the planning and construction of networks, both in terms of time dynamics, quality, spatial placement, sharing of space and equipment. Otherwise, a large part of the transition strategy adopted by the Government last year was intended, but the proposaler did not introduce it into the draft law and did not take it into account. Nor does the bill lay down any criteria, criteria or references for operators wishing to obtain a frequency. Nor are the conditions defined, nor are they defined, on the basis of which frequencies are allocated, so that discrimination remains a concern. Since these positions are mainly about professional issues, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that citizens and citizens will also be affected by the significant financial consequences of this transition. In our view, the measures to promote transition are completely flawed, as any revenue arising from this heading may not arise until after the digital transmission has been completed, but will, in fact, no longer be encouraged or unlawful in any way, as there will be no more grounds for granting State aid. Finally, the rights of radio and television broadcasters are not clearly defined anywhere. They're completely [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] neglected users, listeners, viewers, traders, repairers and others. [[...]] We also note that we need to raise the standard of coverage and join 95% of Slovenia's coverage. For all this reason, the members of the LDS MPs will vote on the proposal for a law on the outcome of the votes on the supplements tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. However, colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you for your word and welcome. In Novi Slovenija we stand in the view that the Digital Broadcasting Act is not only necessary, but also necessary if we want to follow the technological leap in the field of broadcasting. In particular, in Novi Slovenija we would like to draw attention to the inaccessible areas or uncovered areas - in Slovenia today, when we have so-called digital technology. We know that neighbouring countries, such as Italy and Austria, are already broadcasting in digital technology, and the focus of Europe is to complete the broadcast in analogue technology by 2012. The fact is that the economy has a key role to play in the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting. However, in the transitional phase, the central situation must also be taken over by a country which, with appropriate regulation in a timely and substantive sense, must establish the basis for a rapid and effective transition. This is also why the Ministry of Economy has drafted this law. It is important that every citizen, when moving from analogue to digital broadcasting, will obtain both an improvement in the quality of the image or sound and a larger number of channels that he will be able to watch. At the same time, this means unifying Internet technologies and digital television, and new technological possibilities, such as interactivity, high-resolution television, mobile television and the like, are opening up. In New Slovenia we support the law because we expect it to be taken a step further, a new technology that will benefit all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the SLS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Information and technological development brings important changes in the Internet, telecommunications, television and elsewhere. One of these emerging areas is the development of digital broadcasting that replaces classical or analogue broadcasting. The proposal for a Digital Broadcasting Act has the main objective of increasing the use of radio spectrum, which is essential to exploit the benefits of new technologies. Of course, digital broadcasting itself is the ultimate goal and, in the interim period, it must continue to function normally in addition to digital broadcasting. The principle of continuity and gradual transition is very important both from the point of view of the tenderers and in particular from the point of view of the users. It is essential for the user to allow a smooth transition to the new system, which, after full implementation, will be possible a wide range of additional services that analogue broadcasting does not allow. New technology also offers opportunities for even greater media pluralism, which is welcome. In addition, the transition to digital technology results in a long-term reduction of costs for broadcast operators. The proposed law is also in line with European legislation, which mainly regulates the field of electronic communications in detail. Therefore, the law is also Terminologically aligned with the Law on Electronic Communications, which will continue to apply, such as the Media Act. In fact, the Digital Diffusion Act governs this specific area. That the regulation of this area is in a specific law and not in the law on electronic communications is, in our view, meaningful and good, especially in terms of the transparency of the law. The amendment to the 29th Article of the Group of Members really makes sense, so we will also support it. We also hope that as soon as possible these quality services in Slovenia will also cover those remaining black foxes and allow all users to have as quality access to these services as possible in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed law is appropriate, and we will also support it. We hope that this adoption of the law will also allow or facilitate the introduction and use of new services that enable digital broadcasting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of the presentation of the position of the Group, I really should say that it is not a purely technical law, that it has a whole range of substantive and social implications, including the implications for viewing, the change in behaviour that will happen to viewers and so on. Digital, compared to analogue, broadcasting means major changes on both the content manufacturers, network operators and users' side, especially on the users' side, to mention that they will feel that this change will have to be obtained either by new TV receivers or by acquiring so-called adapters or a set of top boxes, a little later. At the same time, I am assessing that it is right that the Government has drawn up a special law and that it has not decided to amend the law on electronic communications. The content is important, the content is extensive and it is right to find its place in this special law. The proposaler is of the view that, in relation to the media law, as well as to the law on RTV Slovenia, this law is completely technologically neutral and that these areas do not touch each other. That this law, which regulates distribution and other matters relating to digital broadcasting, has nothing to do with content. This will be difficult to hold, which we will see hereafter, because there is this great convergence of media, content, technology and it would be necessary in some places, if I may say so, to "screw" together the provisions of these laws. We have really tried this in some of the amendments of the Group. I am not sure if, in all cases, the best or most accurate, but we have failed, these amendments have been rejected. Certain problems will emerge in the future with certainty. As I have already mentioned, we have tabled several amendments to this law. We have proposed, for example, an addition to Article 2, which should make it clear that the purpose of the law is not only the effective use of radio spectrum, but rather the purpose of the law is primarily to ensure a rapid and effective transition to digital broadcasting. This law speaks to 80% of the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting, and within this, it is self-evident that this transition itself allows for a more efficient, more rational use of frequencies, as it relaxes this space and allows even one frequency to broadcast significantly more content. The second important amendment, which was rejected and mentioned, was an amendment which we proposed to Article 11, which states that where a multiplex operator is also a provider of content, the activity of a multiplex operator must be provided in a legally independent company or keep separate records. Of course, the provision of this law is perfectly correct, on the spot, directly under the directive. But in our practice, clearly, this refers first and foremost to our Radiotelevision Slovenia and its unit Broadcasters and Links. Broadcasts and links will be the first multiplex operator and will therefore have to operate this activity either separately in a legal company or with separate bookkeeping or records. We have only proposed that, when it comes to the establishment of a legal independent society, we would say that we would set up our own company, do so on the basis of law, simply because we think it is right for the National Assembly to have a word on it. Otherwise, because our amendment has not been adopted, in fact, the Government has made it possible for the government to decide for itself what kind of legal society the transmitters and associations will be excluded if they choose to do so; I am not saying that they will be, but if they do, they will be independent. We believe that alone and our Group of Members should agree on this in the National Assembly with a special law. I would like to say more about other matters at the time of the amendment. Now I say we will support this law, depending on the fate of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled on your letter dated 22.10.2007. So I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the Amendment of the Zares Group. I'm opening time for applications after a well-established procedure. Here you go, please. We have two reported discussers and finally a minister. However, Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly. As has already been said, the Minister mentioned in the introduction that this amendment was coordinated with the Directorate for Electronic Communications, in fact, refers to a debate on whether, when switching to digital broadcasting, it would also allow for greater coverage. The current RTV Act allows, requires 90% coverage, thereby allowing 95% coverage in the final instance. It would be important to know that if we do not determine it now, it will never happen. And this amendment, as written, allows this coverage to increase, and we ourselves know that in a situation like that in Slovenia, commercial coverage is possible 50%, 60%, and everything else would then be the cost of multiple operators. This will certainly enable this first multiplex operator to cover a larger proportion of the population and the territory, while at the same time the nature of digital television will allow commercial television programmes to be broadcast on this multiple, if they so decide, perhaps even if they have to, now that they have programs that are interesting to the population, they cannot watch them, such as the already mentioned champion league and so on. We will therefore support this amendment, and I expect others to support it in accordance with the opinion of the Minister. But I'd still say something about this amendment that I couldn't say before. In fact, I believe it makes sense to read the digital transition strategy issued by the Ministry or Government last year. That's the document. It is important to know that in this strategy, the Government has decided that compression techniques are involved in encoding the video signal to mpeg4, which is now not saying what mpeg4 is, in principle, the right decision. I think it's the right decision. But it means something embarrassing. All existing digital broadcasting operators in the area are broadcasting us to mpeg2. It's called a lower resolution or a lower compression. Which means that we should already be very clear to people today that if they want to accept this signal from this operator multiplex of the Slovenian first, they will have all these boxes or televisions on mpeg4, because compatibility down is possible. It's from mpeg4. You can watch all these boxes with mpeg2. With mpeg2 all these boxes you won't be able to watch NPK4. And today people are buying MPEG22, for the first time because it's allowed by cable operators, secondly because it's Austrian television, Italian television on mpeg2. And only one part of the test on mpeg4 runs in Austrian. So today we should tell people that mpeg4 is the standard that will apply. At least that's how I see it in this strategy. Otherwise, people are buying all these mpeg-2 boxes today, and they're going to have to replace it in two years. This is, of course, an expensive investment. Mpeg-2 Set Top Boxes costs 20 euros today and so on. While mpeg-4 is very low, prices are around EUR 400. I think that the offer will increase, that the price will go down, but it will still be significant. And that should be pointed out as the Ministry. There should also be an agreement with the operators, because otherwise there will be a problem that the future government will really suffer. That's why I'm so worried. This misfortune will suffer the will. And that needs to be pointed out today, because there will be a lot of problems. Of course, I would also like to say this - I will say so - that the incentives would be more justified to have more of them. These incentives, which are now, will only concern helping to buy a Set Top Box for those subscribers who are exempt from subscription payments and this is small. But I think this circle should be bigger. In particular, if, as I understand the strategy, the issue has been ongoing since the beginning of the mpeg-4 with the MPEG-4 technique, which means, of course, relatively high costs. But once again, I don't object to the decision to go to mpeg-4. Not at all. But I think that this transition from the point of view of users will be significantly more demanding and, of course, also clear from the point of view of operators as regards costs. In a way, we will test this technology for the wider environment. Even for the needs of Europe, if I may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you very much. However, Member Mitja Slavina has been declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. I also support the amendment tabled and join the view that if we do not now make this law truly the widest possible coverage of the Republic of Slovenia with a signal, then certain areas will be identified. We've heard before, two villages with reduced ratings and many others simply neglected. It's just that there will never be coverage. In support of this or further argument, I also state that 95% of the coverage of the population does not also mean 95% of the coverage of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore this coverage is so much easier to achieve, as the areas that are very sparsely populated are. And so if we compare, this is in relatively large areas of these 5% people so that 95% of the coverage of the Republic of Slovenia is a possible goal, a real goal. I suggest we set him up as the one that's worth making a decision about. And in this way, we will also allow those who have so far -- because the facts are that those who have now been deprived of ratings and coverage will probably fall out in digital broadcasting -- to at least give them some more. Some of them are, by the way, 100,000. With this change, to make it easier for us to introduce ourselves, we increase our ratings by 5%. This is 100,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's an important number. I therefore propose that we support this amendment. Even more so than said, this does not mean that much greater costs, but the final goal will indeed justify this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you. Before I give my word to the Minister, my colleague Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! Once again, I would like once again to support this amendment tabled by the Zares Group. In fact, now is an opportunity when we are changing technologically, one such niche, where one can take some step forward and upgrade. So I hope that the proposer will also accept this expressed majority will here. What I wanted to say on this occasion, however, will open up with the adoption of this law itself, as has already been said today, some other consequences of the application of this law will open up. So I think there are at least four laws pending interdisciplinary harmonisation of the proposer in the near future. This law, which we are adopting today, is the Law on RTV, the Law on Electronic Communications and, finally, the Law on Media. All things and content are intertwined. We're gonna have to get things together here. And at the end of the day, perhaps a suggestion or such a wish that I said earlier when my colleague Gantar was talking about these "boxis" or adapters. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if the billmaker found out next year and a half when he figured it out when we went from tolar to euro and all the citizens got computers. So maybe you and the country and the proponent will take the 20, 30 euros and we'll all get adapters from analogue to digital technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you, too. And I invite the Minister to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much. At the end first. The law is in line with the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Media. And it's a special recipe. So further coordination is needed. We have not proposed something that would not be in line with the current legal order, but we are focusing on addressing this special issue, which is linked to a period of time. This is not a system regulation that would regulate - I don't know - broadcasting just like that. But he's fixing the transition. That is why we have focused on an efficient and economic transition. This seems very important and necessary to me. It is true that the release of the frequency band offers ample opportunities for economic development. However, in order to reach this relaxation, it is necessary to implement a procedure that will be as rapid and otherwise as possible and will not affect those key economic operators dealing with it today and all users. So, in this sense, these solutions are, and in this sense, support for the socially weak is also provided. In particular, in the direction that those who are the most vulnerable part of society are not affected by this procedure. That's one thing. The other thing is about the amendment. I initially told him that we supported him. We think it's a good thing he's covering for someone in need. That is why I expect Parliament to vote. However, in the introductory presentations we have encountered a whole set of initiatives and proposals that have already been put forward in the framework of the committee's parliamentary procedure. These amendments were rejected by the Committee. He took some of them into account. I wouldn't repeat the reasons why this happened on the board. Which, of course, was the purpose and purpose of the committee to deal with it. So, I just want to conclude by seeing in the long run from this transition one significant benefit for all. We have also identified some technical parameters in the strategy that are not covered by the law. No strategy is eternal. It is also the product of some new technological and developmental knowledge. We can also take into account, in technical solutions, the visas of the existing environment to which we are involved in neighbouring countries, and similarly take into account any more compatible, more modern receptions. I'm not rejecting that. At that time, at a time when we made the strategy a basis for this law too, it seemed to be the most optimal. It is true, however, that this decision can also be faced with the dilemmas that you have highlighted in the debate. So we think this is a well-prepared law that will be upgraded by this proposed amendment, and we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. My colleague Pavel Gantar, a government representative, or minister, said that your amendment was supportive. The MPs have said they support your amendment. I propose that we conclude the debate given that we all agree on everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u176	Mr President, I have the right to speak. I don't know if you're all saying it's better if I don't talk, no problem. We had no discussion on these matters. I think it's more than that, but I'm giving it up. I think [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u177	Comrade Pavel Gantar, we're talking only about [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u178	Even though I have the right [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u179	Article 29 and the amendment. [[....]] That's the only right you have. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u180	He says, "I have the right to debate." [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u181	That's all I'm gonna let you do. [[...]] The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law on a supportive business environment. I would like to inform you that we have an expected 50-minute debate on this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mr. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u182	Dear Members and Members, Mr Vice President! The third law proposed in the procedure by the Ministry of the Economy today and, in my opinion, is also a very important law which systematically regulates the support environment for entrepreneurship. All together, the goal is to make the business environment in Slovenia competitive. This law can also make an important contribution. The law defines the entrepreneurial, innovative and financial environment, which through their mechanisms create an effective support environment and solves specific problems mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. In an entrepreneurial environment, development tasks and programmes for the development of entrepreneurship are being developed at national level. At local, regional and future landscape levels, the modern concept of "Everything in One Place" provides support services to potential entrepreneurs, active businesses and various forms of cooperation and business integration. The entrepreneurship and innovation environment is coordinated by the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment and carried out by entities of an entrepreneurial and innovative environment. The entrepreneurial environment defines tasks and programmes for the creation of an entrepreneurial environment and tasks and programmes at local and regional level through entities. With regard to the financial environment, the law preserves the solutions already confirmed by previous legislation. These solutions allow for modern forms of financing through venture capital funds and financial leasing, as well as other forms of financing. The essence of the law is, therefore, to allow for a modern division of tasks between the Ministry of Economy and implementing institutions both at national and local and regional level. Thus, the law will certainly have positive effects on the further development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Once again, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economy and the Government have developed an extremely clear concept as well as instruments to improve the competitiveness of economic operators in Slovenia. We have a programme to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness for the next seven years. It identifies a number of measures that on the one hand provide greater promotion of entrepreneurship and want to ensure greater entrepreneurship between Slovenes and Slovenians. On the other hand, they want to upgrade existing instruments to support good innovative development projects of all types of companies through financial mechanisms. It therefore wants to upgrade innovation and promote the integration of the development research sphere with the Slovenian economy. That is why there are a number of measures. And the fourth. With direct incentives, it wants to upgrade the technological equipment of Slovenian small and medium-sized enterprises as well as companies. This programme is a very clear message, a very clear vision of this government, how and where it sees additional opportunities and what it supports in terms of ensuring greater competitiveness of the economy. Of course, the effective implementation of this programme does not go without supporting implementing institutions. And this supportive environment is the heart, the essence of this law, which speaks of a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. And it is a systematic and transparent way of sharing competences between institutions and the goal in the effectiveness of these institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to make us aware of the Committee's findings this time as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy, as its parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law on environmental support for entrepreneurship submitted to the National Assembly by the Government for consideration and acceptance. The meetings were attended by representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Economy, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendments of the coalition parties and the amendments of the DeSUS Group of Members were summarised on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Economy and some other proposals for amendments. The representative of the proposal presented the basic objectives and arguments for such solutions as we have in the draft law. We just heard them directly from the minister. That's why I'm not gonna say it again. I would just like to say that the bill has received general support. I think I can say this on behalf of all the members of the Committee on the Economy as well as the representatives of the economy of both chambers. Much or some of the debate was devoted to the role of representatives of the economy, and in particular both chambers, chambers, crafts and economics, in the activities and organisations designated for the implementation of this entrepreneurship promotion programme. However, the Government’s reply was that this has already been fully or largely ensured in other laws, in particular those governing the operation of individual organisations, and that this need not yet be further regulated or described in these laws. The amendments adopted are incorporated into the amended bill and form an integral part of the report you have before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Well, when we look around today, it would be difficult to find someone who, not either at the professional, scientific or purely pragmatic level, supports the faster development of small and medium-sized enterprises, whether it is our domestic environment or whether it is international horizons. Nevertheless, we note that success is not too disproportionate to the declarations concerning this area. With us, the Ministry of Economy has decided to take a step further. So a step towards upgrading what we know so far. It is probably very different if appropriate analyses are to be made, it is possible to observe the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in different sectors, whether it is industrial or whether it is food or whether it is a tourist sector or another sector. However, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises across the economic area should be encouraged. And it is appropriate to upgrade the support environment for the development of entrepreneurship. A new or upgraded institutional framework is needed, a new support environment that we are looking for both in the organisational scheme and in the institutions, in the regulatory framework, in the legislative and legal framework which must monitor all this and, of course, in the successful provision of resources without which it is not possible to develop entrepreneurship in reality. Since this will be a major asset for important support, it is probably also right to support those provisions that speak of monitoring and monitoring the usefulness, efficiency, cost-effectiveness of the allocation or other incentives. In fact, the entrepreneurship support framework was created decades ago. At that time, legislation was also prepared and let us remember that we had a house in Maribor, where, if I recall correctly, the Ministry of Small Economy and Tourism. Well, we haven't had that in a long time. We got institutional substitutes for that. We hope that these institutional frameworks, which we now know, will also adequately accelerate the areas we are talking about. We are developing and upgrading the support environment by first preparing an appropriate legal environment to ensure that the actors of this support environment are implemented, by means of a programme of measures and with appropriate financial incentives, that we monitor what we record in so far all our strategic and other documents and that we encourage and implement some instruments that are so new, so that mezzanine capital is a novelty in our environment. Thus, there is some novelty in our environment of venture capital that will be raised within venture capital companies. All these measures will certainly not be enough. We know that this must somehow sit in the general environment. But this general environment may not be the most favored. We do not have a business tradition specifically developed in this area. The social environment and the working legal environment are not such as to encourage the development of entrepreneurship. Business culture is even more rudimentary in us than it is not, and it will take years to get to the level we want. The second broader legal framework will probably need to be changed, and I only mention tax incentives or facilitations and changes in the area of payment turnover or otherwise financial discipline. Although we support the law in the Desus Group. But we already had some concerns on the committee. We have unsuccessfully supported some of the proposals made at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. But that's probably bad. Point to the fact that this was not supported. Because it is bad to adopt legislation in Parliament that speaks of entrepreneurship, despite the fact that entrepreneurship should be taken into account only in the case of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Stana Pajk will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u188	Your Honor! Today, we have the Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act under consideration. It can quickly be concluded that this is a rather insignificant marriage. This is not the case, as entrepreneurship is moving rapidly and is very important for the development of the economy. The law itself is systematically regulated and systematically regulates the division of tasks between the Ministry of Economy and implementing institutions at national level and the integration of entrepreneurial, innovative, financial environments at local and regional level coordinated by the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investments of Japan. The proposed law or the objectives of the proposed law are to regulate this area in law with the form and content, which is in particular more favourable, the financing of entrepreneurial projects, and support for new companies in the form of I know - points, which are all in one place, incubators of business networks, portals with information guidance for mentors and other programmes. All of this is based on comprehensive support, equal access to focus on smaller economic operators and coherent regional development. I can say that the proposed law follows a coalition treaty in this area, which, by the way, says that the coalition would seek to develop entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship of a friendly environment. Particularly in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises. This law also deals with this. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed law is good because it is aimed at the development of the economy. That is why we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Ministry Representative, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment, which we are considering today, is a law that Social Democrats consider to be an important law because it speaks of the development of entrepreneurship, small economy and crafts. We are aware that this type of economy can mean a lot to Slovenia. Of course, - I will say - a good environment for entrepreneurship also means healthy finances. Taking over the euro from 1.1.2007 requires a more careful and cautious economic policy, which will take into account the real possibilities and fully implement the potentials of Slovenia, which can be taken into account for the development of entrepreneurship with certainty. Contrary to the real and actual needs and capabilities of economic growth in Slovenia in recent years, it is also based on relatively high gross debt abroad, in particular in the area of the construction of transport infrastructure. Despite very high economic growth, based mainly on high export and investment demand and consequently very favourable public financial situation and also on good corporate governance, I fear that the Government has failed to take advantage of the opportunity to reduce public debt more significantly. It has failed to reduce current indebtedness and thus solve the long-term and structural public financial problems that Slovenia will face in the next period and will not be resolved now that there is a good and realistic option for this. We can agree with economic experts that the growth in the gross indebtedness of the public and private sector has further stimulated economic growth in the short term. Of course, these same economists also point out that this is not sustainable in the long term and that such economic growth is not optimal. For about three years, the government has been saying what the previous government has not done and what it could do. However, I personally believe that the legacy of previous governments is a good basis for Slovenia's important economic and development opportunities during this period and even in the next period. I would not like to play the role of economic analyst, but the Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act, which we are adopting today, requires some assessment based on economic and financial legality. The government and the coalition will certainly oppose the assessment that economic policy in Slovenia is not being managed optimally. However, this may also mean that he does not want to face the truth or reality. I fear that the competitiveness of Slovenia and its economy does not increase as we all wish together. This is certainly not the fault of the opposition, nor is it the economy’s fault. But that is why it is really the government’s fault, which has every opportunity to accept good foundations or mechanisms. These are laws, tax reforms that can make Slovenia even more economically and economically more in the field of Slovenia. The government's attitude towards economic development and the desire to keep economic growth high for a longer period is reflected in some way also in the proposal of the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. I'm sure the government is somewhat late with this law. In addition, she has been detained in some way. I must say that law and government policy do not pursue the ultimate goal, but the ultimate objective is to develop entrepreneurship, innovation and entrepreneurial culture in Slovenia. However, if we look at the 2009 budget, which was in some way drawn up by the same Government and which is in some way following this law, we need to find that resources to support the economy or support the small economy are shrinking, namely EUR 1 million. And also that for the development of economic logistics centres in Slovenia the government is counting mainly on funds from Brussels. However, we already know that these funds will not exist and that these funds will be reduced by a quarter or 10 million euros. So, on the one hand, we will vote in favour of a law to support the development of entrepreneurship. On the other hand, the Government is preparing a budget which this law or funds do not monitor. In the Social Democrats, however, we will adopt this law, we will support it. At the same time, we are also predicting that we will also make amendments, so that the funds for the development of entrepreneurship will also increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much and thank you for your commitment. My colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the amendment of the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship is necessary. In particular, due to the fundamental objective of the law to provide comprehensive support to potential entrepreneurs and companies operating throughout Slovenia. This objective can be broken down into several concrete objectives to promote the development of entrepreneurship, in particular those that have the most impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, technological development, economic growth and employment. At the LDS, we regret that, at the time of the consideration of the law on the home labour body, no proposal has been adopted to add representative economic chambers to the performance of the tasks and the programme of the business environment in Article 7 of the Act. At the moment, this is the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which have great importance and impact on the development of the business environment. In other words, the law includes the possibility of a support environment at the provincial level. However, it does not take into account what has already been achieved in the entrepreneurship promotion regions. Funds for the implementation of the Programme of Action shall be provided in the national budget and from other domestic and foreign sources and shall also be shared from this level. Such a proposal is inadequate because the country thus determines which regions or landscapes will acquire funds to promote a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. However, the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship translates all main support measures into local or regional community. It is stated in the bill that the founder of the support institution should provide funds for its establishment, launch and initial operation. Which means providing the premises and the necessary equipment and the relevant staff. In such cases, however, the State will rarely or never be among the founders of such an institution. As a result, the full burden of funding support measures will be passed on to a lower level of the country. Do we really want to ask ourselves in this way to promote a supportive environment for entrepreneurship? The tasks for programmes for the design and development of the financial environment at national level shall be carried out by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the establishment act. The tasks referred to in this paragraph may also be carried out by other authorised operators. However, such a law is not in line with the principles of promoting coherent regional development. When the provinces are introduced, it would therefore make sense to amend the Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment in such a way that, instead of carrying out tasks and programmes, other authorised current operators would implement, for example, regional development agencies at the regional level. In fact, this would only give the landscape the character and role in promoting a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. However, as the provinces are not yet a fact and the LDS do not believe that they will be in this mandate, the LDS will support the proposed law in this form. We expect the Government to consider transferring tasks and programmes for the development of the financial environment to the Agency's regional development under future provincial legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much. My colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the Nova Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thanks again for saying that. In New Slovenia, we have always stood up and will also be in the future to create an enabling environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. Not only tax policy, but also other accelerated measures must promote new development projects, new technologies and appropriate education, and thus ensure investment in medium and small enterprises. We have developed a number of initiatives, projects and programmes in the area of favourable funding for projects and other support for new companies so far. However, this content did not have a comprehensive and long-term policy because it limited the effectiveness of these measures. And the proposed law is intended to accelerate this effectiveness. The Entrepreneurship Support Environment Act adequately identifies the entrepreneurial, innovative and financial environment, which through their mechanisms create a more effective support environment and solves specific problems, particularly of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In New Slovenia, we want to provide businesses with a friendly environment that will contribute to the balanced development of all regions and the country as a whole, and will also contribute to improving the overall quality of life, as small and medium-sized enterprises make a significant contribution to the competitiveness of the economy. They also affect its growth and the creation of new jobs. In Novi Slovenija we advocate that as many entrepreneurs as possible choose entrepreneurship because of the entrepreneurial idea, but not just because they do not get another job. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the law is good to provide support for both potential entrepreneurs and active companies throughout Slovenia, and will thus have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, technological development, economic growth and employment. We will support the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the efficiency of the market economy depends on the mix of small, medium and large enterprises. The economy needs an economically strong sector of small and medium-sized enterprises based on innovation, the search for new ideas and solutions, and ambitions after achieving business excellence. Small and medium-sized enterprises play an important role in maintaining and creating new jobs and are urgently needed to ensure competition. They mention the opportunity to jump from employee to self-employment and are an essential prerequisite for the decentralisation of economic power. Small and medium-sized enterprises have many advantages as they are more flexible in many respects. They can make decisions faster and they're less bureaucratic. However, compared to larger companies, they are often in a poorer competitive situation. For this reason, they need relief and specific measures. The proposed Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment sets out in particular measures in the area of financing entrepreneurship projects and support for new enterprises in the form of so-called know-how, incubators, information support and the like. The support system for small and medium-sized enterprises is therefore necessary. The proposed law is intended to make it possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to grow more effectively and to contribute to more and better businesses by developing them, and to bring the economic structure of the most developed countries of the European Union closer to them. The importance of entrepreneurship for economic growth and prosperity is indisputable for Slovenia as a small country, as well as irreplaceable. That entrepreneurship is important, we are all aware, so legislation has often been involved in this area. In 2004, the Law on a Support Environment for Entrepreneurship unfortunately proved to be ineffective due to some weaknesses. However, the proposed law is intended to remove these weaknesses. One of the key problems has been the uncoordinated functioning of ministries and government services to fully support entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises. We cannot help but point out here that the uncoordinated work of government services is often the one that makes it really impossible to carry out projects effectively or to coordinate individual substantive areas. However, we believe that the proposed revised Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment can bring solutions that adequately address this weakness. It may not be important to point out in the preparation of this law that we are working in the Slovenian People's Party for an educational process based on encouraging individuals to think creatively and critically. The school must primarily be a place of creativity where young people can develop their potential. Let it not hinder, but promote the development of young people. This will also enhance entrepreneurial thinking and ensure long-term economic development. Of course, other measures are also very important, especially creating favourable conditions for creating new conditions in new companies and their growth. In particular, we welcome the objective of developing a comprehensive support system for potential entrepreneurs and active businesses, in particular through access to information, education and advisory services. In doing so, it is crucial that the support system, based on regional and local level, will provide equal opportunities for the creation and growth of enterprises across Slovenia. It is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises that are essential to ensure the uniform or more coordinated development of the country. The proposed law introduces comprehensive support for the environment for entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Entrepreneurship, innovation and the financial environment with the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment in one and the Enterprise Funds, on the other hand, will stimulate and accelerate the development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. The entry points are the solutions that may be most welcome from an operational point of view. They provide the conventional entrepreneur and businesses with the integrated support necessary for the establishment or operation of each undertaking. In addition, it allows for the extension of support tasks for other companies. This is a very important law, in our opinion, which will certainly be supported by the Slovenian People's Party Group. We expect that it will also actually achieve the objectives set out in the introductory explanation and will contribute to the creation of new and development and the expansion of existing small and, of course, medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Mr. President-in-Office. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. However, a few questions that I hope will be answered by the applicant, however, are the final decisions on the validity of that law. The first question is that the law places a strong emphasis on the use of resources from foreign funds from foreign European funds. So far, Slovenia has not shimmered or has been successful on the basis of drawing these. Although we know that such a supportive environment is both for entrepreneurship and for other forms of economy, agriculture, education. We just had a chance. But that first fell into my eyes when I received a proposal of marriage and an explanation. I am interested or interested in the Slovenian National Party, by which this law promotes the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and those responsible for drawing on these resources, so that this pumping will actually be more successful than the drawdown that has been carried out so far. I will say, two entities in this country are particularly exposed in this law, which was responsible for obtaining funds. This is so-called JAPTI, the Public Agency for the Promotion of Entrepreneurship, and - and I will say - a certain environment of business operators that will show a particular interest. The Public Agency for the Promotion of Entrepreneurship is, at least in my opinion or in our opinion, a political, more or less political entity that has so far not had much success. Whether to draw funds, or to help small businesses or craftsmen to whom this law should apply. If we move forward and say a word, perhaps in connection with the chambers. We talked earlier about amendments to the Commercial Activities Act, and we were talking about chambers. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that the impact of the Chambers on this law should be significantly greater. In fact, this law excludes them. But it was you who spoke in previous laws that stressed the positiveness of the Chamber of Commerce when we abolished compulsory membership and, above all, stressed the positive nature of the Chamber of Commerce when we were talking about small businesses and small entrepreneurs. For this - I'll say - the favor of membership. But this law completely excludes their cooperation. It seems to me that this is some kind of duality in the development of entrepreneurship in our country. Another issue which disturbs us terribly in the Slovenian National Party is the impact of the province on the development of such an environment. We know we don't have provincial laws yet. I seriously doubt and hope that those who are proposed will not have them, nor will we have them, and take into account some of the effects of the provinces to which it does not follow, nor the state budget, either the 2008 balance or the 2009 budget - I think - if we bring this into law, it is the misleading of such small entrepreneurs as this Government is betting on, both the craftsmen on whom this government is so vehemently betting, which it has found that their greatest support here is possible for this government for the second year. Someone mentioned entrepreneurship in front of me. Business thinking is essentially a fact that this government has taken for granted. Even in the event of its operation. This entrepreneurial mentality was included - respected colleagues and colleagues - if you remember the Basic Education Act. Today someone is talking about entrepreneurial thinking. This law is intended only to create such an environment for entrepreneurs and craftsmen so that they can develop. It is intended to draw on foreign resources that have so far been very poor to draw on. Some solutions or more solutions are so good that simply such a law cannot be opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the draft law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. And we're moving on to 9. Agenda item - Secondly, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on transport agreements in road transport. I inform you that we have 1 hour 58 minutes to discuss for this item. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council and I give the floor to Dr. Petr Verlič for the introductory explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u200	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to give a brief explanation in the introduction to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Contracts Act, for which a general discussion is proposed. The purpose of the amendments introduced by law is, in particular, to introduce the responsibility of the consignor and the transport contracting authority for the payment of the fare in the event that the transport contract is concluded by the carrier, the transport contracting authority and the consignor, which is not at the same time the transport contracting authority, in order to ensure a greater likelihood of payment of the fare to the carrier for the transport carried out. Next, the undertaking of the carrier to provide evidence before the conclusion of the transport contract at the request of the consignor or the contracting authority to the latter by which the carrier demonstrates the level of the fare or the amount of all costs that represent the cost of transport, which the carrier is expected to create in such a way as to cover the burdens caused by the fulfilment of the legal obligations - fuel costs, depreciation and maintenance of the vehicle and so on. Last but not least, the entry of fines exclusively in euro, with the amounts of fines recorded in an appropriately rounded amount, in order to ensure compliance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences, which amends the applicable rules in the field of offences, inter alia, by standardising the possible range of rules on fines in euro and establishing the transition to the euro in terms of the regulation of offences. Dear Members and Members! I propose that, following the debate on the amendment and the content of the law, the proposed law also be supported. Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Gez Juban, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Chairman. At its 23rd session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Transport carried out a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport Contracts, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure. In the introduction, the representative of the proposed law clarified three basic objectives and the main solutions to the draft law relating to the contract for the carriage of goods and the payment of fare. However, amendments and additions should allow for greater market safety for carriers and a greater payment discipline for transport and consignors. The new law allows the transport contract to be concluded between the consignor, the transport order and the carrier and the first two are jointly responsible for the payment of the fare. However, another amendment to the bill introduces a document to be submitted by each carrier at the request of the contracting authority or the consignor before the conclusion of the transport contract to the transport contracting authority or the consignor. And the last amendment to the bill concerns the definition of fines in euros. In its opinion, the legislature drew attention to the provision of Article 1 of the bill amending Article 24 of the current law. In the light of the provisions of the fifth and eighth indents of Article 3 of the current law defining the concept of the transport contracting authority and the consignor, it is not clear in which case the transport contracting authority and the consignor should conclude a transport contract. The legislative and legal service further explained and drew attention to the problems posed by the ambiguities mentioned above. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The amendments have been tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS members to Article 1 and 2 of the bill. In the discussion, some members of the Committee considered that the proposed amendment to Article 1 of the proposal was inappropriate, since it was possible to conclude a transport contract only between the consignor and the carrier, while for the other participants it was necessary to take into account the provisions of the Bond Code. Two conclusions were also proposed for the suspension of the sitting. The first is to hold a general debate. And others to find more appropriate solutions than the bill. The decision was not adopted. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the SDS, NSI and SLS. After the discussion on the articles and the discussion and vote on the amendments tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles together. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Contracts Act is prepared as an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group will be given by Ambassador Branko Marinič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President! Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Well, it is already so that when we consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on road transport transport contracts, we can come from the fact that, in fact, we have all already concluded a transport contract with one carrier in one way or another. However, this is an important contribution in this area. Because many times have happened, and many carriers still do their service. However, this service creates difficulties when accounts need to be settled. The proposal for a new law gives carriers greater market safety and transparency in their operations. It introduces the responsibility of the consignor and the transport contracting authority to pay the fare in the event that the transport contract is concluded by the carrier, the transport contracting authority and the consignor who is not the contracting authority at the same time. The new law basically preserves the same objectives and principles and a similar structure as the law currently in force by supplementing the text of the current law in certain places. The proposed amendments relate in particular to the contract for the carriage of cargo and the payment of the fare. This is also an essential emphasis. In the event of complaints and disagreements arising in this area, there have been many open issues here. However, another amendment to the Road Transport Contracts Act introduces a document to be submitted by each carrier at the request of the contracting authority or the consignor before the conclusion of the transport contract to the transport contracting authority or the consignor. In short, the applicant has somehow tried to cut into the substance of certain amendments and to supplement the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on road transport contracts, where this supplement would somehow better regulate this area more transparently. In particular, for the benefit of all those involved in the transport, either when it comes to the transport order or when it comes to the carrier or the consignee of a particular transport order. In the parliamentary group, we will confirm the proposal for amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Comrade Marko Pavliha will give the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr. Secretary of State with the co-director! Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! Unfortunately, as a professor of transport law today, I have to find out that the Transport Directorate has passed the exam. In fact, he put his head above his head, primarily and only in his head. That's what I was trying to explain to the Transport Committee. I'm sorry, no effect. However, I can invite you to look at the arguments for my thesis for my claim both in domestic and foreign legal doctrine, in the commentary of the Bond Code relating to the Spanish Treaty, in the introductory explanations to the Law on Road Transport Contracts, in the CMR Convention governing the carriage of goods by road and not least in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of this Parliament. And it happens a lot of times that our job would say that a certain rule is inconsistent with the law. This time she said it in a kind of diplomatic way. But you have to listen. The reasons for the amendment are clear to me. I understand all those small carriers that fight powerful subscribers or freight forwards and can't clear their fares. That's all nice and all right. But we cannot solve the problem of financial discipline in the field of transport bond law. No, no, no. There are other rules for that. This is not enough reason to put on the head the foundations of transport law, which we have known for so long at home and abroad. Let me give you some even more serious and relatively simple arguments. Firstly, the law states exactly who the parties to the transport contract are when transporting the cargo. This is the sender. This is the carrier and later the consignee enters into the transport contract. The consignor may agree with the so-called contracting entity. Let us appoint a freight forwarder to do certain business for him to select the best carrier, pack the goods and so on. However, the freight forwarder may play two roles. If he acts on his behalf and on behalf of the consignor, he is himself a consignor and the carrier can recover the goods from him. But if he acts on behalf and on behalf of the sender's account, then he's just an intermediary. In no case, however, under applicable domestic and international law, both persons cannot appear as jointly responsible. That's the way it is. And if the applicant would like to achieve consistency in changing this legal system, he should at least propose amendments to the Bond Code relating to forwarding. That might still work. The next problem we see is that by amending the law, road hauliers will be privileged compared to other freight carriers, rail, maritime and air carriers. Third. In fact, this novelty will only protect domestic carriers in the case of domestic transport, which is negligible. For international transport is governed by the CMR Convention and this Convention does not know this system. Therefore, once again on this occasion, I would like to ask and ask you to support our amendment, to delete only Article 1 or the first amendment, because the other two amendments are perfectly fine. Unfortunately, if that does not happen, we cannot support this novel in the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to the Road Transport Contracts Act, which we are considering today, gives carriers greater market safety and transparency in their operations. Introduces the responsibility of the consignor and the transport contracting authority for the payment of the fare in the event that the transport contract is concluded by the carrier, the transport contracting authority and the consignor, which is not at the same time the contracting authority. Such a change ensures greater security for carriers in particular in order to obtain the services rendered. So far, many times, the carrier has not received the paid fare. This is particularly true in cases where the consignor was not the contracting authority. In addition to the solidarity responsibility, the amendments entail an obligation for the carrier to submit a document at the request of the transport contracting authority and the consignor prior to the conclusion of the transport contract proving the level of the fare. On the basis of amendments and additions to the Offences Act, the amendment of the Act also provides for the recording of certain fines exclusively in euro, with the amounts of fines being recorded in an appropriate rounded amount. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u210	Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The new Act amending and supplementing the Road Transport Contracts Act, which is the subject of today's debate, deals with and allows the transport contract to be concluded between the consignor, the contracting authority and the carrier when the first two are jointly responsible for the payment of the fare. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, more efficient business is ensured for carriers by providing easier payment for the service or transport provided. The second article of the law in question introduces a new document submitted by the carrier at the request of the contracting authority or the consignor before the conclusion of the transport contract to the contracting authority or the consignor justifying the amount of the fare or the cost of carrying out the transport. With the amendment under consideration, we will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dear President! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Like the speakers before me, I would like to point out that, in fact, we are witnessing again to a very strong truck lobby - if I may say so - for the greater protection of their basic interests. The law refers to the basis, the actual exposure of accounts and the problem of the financial discipline of contracting entities and the irregular payment relations. But this is an all-Slovenian problem, ladies and gentlemen! That's an all-Slovenian problem. We point out all the time that we are inconsistent here, that we do not really know how to provide payment discipline in the whole of Slovenia and that we do not follow European standards here. The country collects its tax even if the service is not paid, no matter how good the service is and no matter what economic factor is in Slovenia, either quality or quality. This means that the State shall, at the time of receipt of the invoice, collect its tax in advance. She doesn't care. And this is many times the reason for good companies to shut down. If we followed European practice, this would not be the case. In Italy the trade is closed if the owner has not paid the goods he has ordered or has failed to meet the obligation either to workers or to the country. And there's another one who comes into this store as a tenant. However, those who owned it until then can only visit it as a worker. And it would be right for the country to take a few steps in this area with us. We are once again witnessing to a truck lobby that has protected its narrow interests. As I am aware, the new minister is unable to accept Director Dars, who is turning EUR 1 million a day. But the truckers have been to his place a couple of times. Such irresponsible conduct in these cases may also be marked by actual irresponsibility and by a criminal offence. The fact is that we are also warned by the law enforcement service that this is not in line with the law. But that's not the basic problem. We have unconstitutional laws, and we are quick to do so, even though the National Assembly should follow some expertise and also look at this, in fact it accepts something. If it is warned of illegality and incoherence in essence, then it should also be taken into account. However, in accordance with the laws in force, we have illegal laws and, in accordance with the Constitution, we also have constitutionally controversial laws. And in a way, we're just defending them. I think, like my predecessors, that if we do not accept an appropriate amendment in particular to Article 1, this law is irrelevant and does not lead anywhere. It won't improve the road safety system. We know we have a lot of mortality. Nor will we eliminate road congestion and increase payment discipline in the actual selection of foreign carriers. Foreign carriers - we know - represent 70% of the market share in terms of transit. We're just a transit country. And 70% of those who do this service will be allowed to cheat. Ours, however, will be bound to be so-called business obedience. I'm alone to arrange payment discipline in another way. That the Government adopts a law that will allow all economic operators to receive a fair paid service if they have done it in good quality. Not individual segments like truckers. Tomorrow, merchants who already have big margins will come. The next day - I don't know - there's gonna be another lobby near the government and they're going to deal with these problems in a partial way. That's not going to work. If we can't make better laws, then we don't have to make better laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thanks again for saying that. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State! The Road Transport Contracts Act was adopted in 2003 and the adoption of an international road transport convention. Most of the provisions of the law are intended for the carriage of goods or goods and regulate the relationship between the parties to the contract. So between the carrier, the consignor, the recipient and any other transport order. The transport order may also be another person. Not the sender. So, for example, a freight forwarder who is entrusted by the sender with transactions relating to the transport of goods. Carriers point out the problem of increasing payment non-discipline in respect of the payment of the fare by the transport contracting authority. The proposed amendments and additions are intended to eliminate the disadvantage of carriers or to enable carriers to enjoy greater legal certainty on the market, as they would make it easier and earlier to pay their claims in respect of services rendered. The new law allows the transport contract to be concluded as a tripartite. So between the consignor, the transport customer, when it is not the sender itself, and the carriers and enters a solidarity responsibility of the first two if the carrier is not paid the fare as agreed. This means that the carrier will be able to claim the full payment from the other two parties, either from one party or from the other until it receives the full payment of its claim. Of course, a regressive relationship will arise between the contracting authority and the consignor after fulfilling the obligation. In view of the proposed solution, which will in fact be a tripartite transport contract, we consider that a solidarity obligation is a suitable solution in this case. In particular, because there is an ever-increasing lack of payment discipline at the expense of carriers, which, of course, makes their business more difficult, which has a bearing on the social problems of their employees. The result is also reflected in the deterioration of competitiveness in the field of transport services as one of the most important industries in our country. We support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law by DeSUS Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 22 October 2007. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, it's a lot of hands. That's why I'm opening the application. Please report to all those who wish to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I've said hello to everyone else before. So, with our amendment, we want to eliminate only what we consider to be contrary to Slovenian and foreign legal doctrine and, not least, to the Bond Act, the Road Transport Contracts Act, as applicable, and the International Convention, which we call the CMR. Again, why! Look, the law enforcement service in our country is largely conservative with due respect, which means that, if only possible, a proposal for a regulation is kept in force and sent only by parliamentary procedure. But in this case, on September 26th, she said to each other: "Let us assume that the proposed supplement would cause ambiguities in the relationship of the parties to the transport contract. It therefore suggests that the proposed solution should be reconsidered. Both in relation to the regulation of the current law and to the provisions of the UN, i.e. the Bond Code governing transport, and in particular the Freight Contract and its specificities." That's what I've been pointing out on the Transport Committee. Offered both hands. And if you want another leg, let's work together on how to solve the problem. I'm aware that there is a problem. The problem of small, smaller carriers who cannot resist these giant freight forwarders, who, of course, blackmail and dictate the situation on the market in all possible ways. But not in a way that we change, we can say, the law that from Roman law continues to be somehow entrenched and legal. Financial discipline must be regulated in a different way. And the fact is that financial non-discipline is one of the modern plagues of our Šentflorjan Valley - people agree and they pay no. And there are a lot of these problems. But let's find a systemic solution to this, not interfere with where there's more damage than benefits. Let me say that Slovenia made a decision years ago when it was regulating a trade union between the two systems. So between French and German. What's the difference? The freight forwarder is also responsible for carrying out transport under French law. According to our law, the German system doesn't. But he's only responsible for the choice. So, the freight forwarder did his job by choosing a suitable carrier. Which, of course, indicates so much more to his relatively less important role. Let us leave aside what will happen to logistics entrepreneurs and what may happen in the future with logistics contracts that will wrap up everything we talk about today in some gastrointestinal way. But this moment doesn't exist. The new law will lead to a lot of debate in the professional circles, but at the very least proposals to amend the Bond Code, so that this spade will be in line with this. That's what I'm warning you about. That's the minimum we should be counting on. If we look at the display of the arrangements you specified in the explanation you need to provide. Of course, this view does not confirm your proposal. In France you refer to their local or national law, which is just as it is, but does not have a similar regime. Austria and Lithuania are still based on an international convention, i.e. the CMR Convention. And as I said before, all international transports, which are largely in our possession, will be subject to an international convention. Domestic transport, however, will place our road hauliers in an unacceptable privileged position. And believe me, as Mr Pintar knocked on your door yesterday with his Association for Transport within the Economic Chamber, so you will get at your door tomorrow other railway, air and road transport carriers. And I wouldn't be surprised if they were just road hauliers, just like they were trying to push me. Now I'm speaking as the former Minister of Transport. Many times Mr Pintar tried to convince me one way or another, but I didn't stay away from it. This time you convinced the minister, even though I personally advised him in a different way. I would not be surprised if Mr Pintar would propose a change to the law tomorrow, in which Members would also be jointly responsible for the payment of the fare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable President and the others present! As far as the expertise of this area is concerned, it is a privilege for my colleague Pavlich. In some respects, I could say that even I agree with him. I have also had the opportunity to study his work, which is also mentioned in this paper, and from this point of view I may even point out that I agree in some respects. But what is the basis? The only basis is that the carrier providing the service receives payment for it. For example, under the International Convention on the Transport of Goods, we could see that the security for the services provided can also be covered from the price of the goods we are transporting, but this is another area. What the legislator or proposer has tried to arrange on our domestic market, and here - I will say - we disagree that something needs to be done to the benefit of the carriers, because we know that there are a lot of these transports on this domestic territory on a daily basis and that many carriers, because of, I will say, the situation on the transport services market is in some situation when they take over and do this transport service and eventually lose their transportation. And what seems important to me to emphasise is the provision that the proposaler specifically wanted to introduce in this Article 1. And if now the SDS Group agrees with the amendment proposal, then we would deny what the proposer actually wanted to settle. As far as comparison is concerned - and I have looked at this - about France and, above all, Austria, by which we could follow the example, because they use the 1956 document as much as I am old and have completed it five years later, something quite different. And that, I'll say, doesn't make it as difficult for our carriers as it does for us. For this reason, we cannot support the proposed amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you. Is there still interest in that? More. I'm opening the application. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Look, let's get some clean wine, shall we? Since I have been in this House in this term, we have granted the truckers a greater axle load by law. We fixed it. The second change was that we reduced their price of punishment. With all due respect to Dr. Peter Verlic, whom I personally appreciate very much, I would prefer to see the Minister today in his place. For the minister promised when we talked about whether he was suitable for this function or not, but he would not succumb to any lobby. We're witnessing today that he succumbed to a trucking lobby. These demands will never cease to this ministry by truckers. They'll always make new ones up. Please! Why regulate payment financial discipline for one person only? Is the one who creates new added value in enterprises, medium-sized, large, not worth this protection? Are we not going to change the law for that? Then, if we have already adopted such a law, let us pass a law that will be acceptable to all. That's not an excuse. It's just not an excuse. We're protecting 30% of the truck transit that crosses Slovenia, and we're making some monopoly advantage to someone who's already in a privileged position today. The registration of a truck is paid only once a year and can then be destroyed by the will of the state roads. We have done nothing to make the more difficult transit, the harder transit goods to take to the railways, despite the promises of ministers. There were a lot of them. And we haven't done anything to reduce road deaths. We're still allowing the truck to be overrun. We know well that for accidents that are unfortunately very great in us - mortality is very high - no one is responsible. Trucks are also responsible for this many times. All I would ask myself is why we are not exemplary in other European countries. You know, there are other countries that have been able to solve these problems in a package and not as partial as we have since we've actually been in this new composition, we've been meeting the demands of truckers again and again on this parent work body. Over and over again. It's almost a quarter past we don't have their demands on the table. And if we are thus subjected to such pressure, then even considering that the Law-Legal Service is wrong to accept what they wrote themselves as the only holy thing, then it is best that we truly surrender our function because we are irresponsible. The Constitutional Court reminds us that we have unconstitutional laws, and we whistle at it. Not once has it been in this National Assembly that we say we will correct this injustice. However, the Constitution is the greatest act, the highest act in our country. It should be, but it's not, the world. It's not. And even if we accept any kind of marital disharmony, we don't give a shit. For every directive sent to us by the European Union, we can say that we are very quick to translate and implement it immediately into our legislation. It's not the past month that we don't have it as binding with us. Of course, in these ways, I just can't land. I would ask you to at least correct this law, to be legally sustainable, reasonable and to support this amendment. But he's talking about the fact that marriage is conditionally acceptable, if I may say so myself, with this dictatorship. I think there's nothing wrong with what Mr. Marinic said to make the truckers get paid. But I urge you to be equal before the law to all. Let's make it possible for others. Now I can shake your hands with 50 companies that had to close their doors for that reason. Not because they did bad work, but because there was no financial discipline. The state has settled on their property. However, she did not care whether they got paid for their service or not, which they did in a good way. This is where I get sick when I have to press the button for one such partial solution. Because we know that we are again allowing someone to make extra revenue from some of the connections they have at the Ministry. That's just not right. If this continues - I think - in a way people see it. It's less than 350 days until the election. It's a minus written by the government for the ear. We can say that tomorrow, tomorrow morning before the inventory, all those who accept such meaningless laws will be illegal, unequal to others and, of course, justifiably guilty to others. It's not just truckers who work. With all due respect to them, I respect them, they do have hard work, but not in this way to solve financial discipline. Please. That's not the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Marinic, no, Mr. Pavliha, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I also have deep respect for carriers. After all, he was my grandfather's train driver, my other transport industry, though. And I would like to thank Mr Marinič for the correct confrontation of opinions. I think such opinions, such encounters, are lacking in this hall, friendly, weighty, different views. Of course, I thank my colleague Friend for his support for our amendment. See, the problem of financial malpractice in the Republic of Slovenia is solved through legal charlatanism. That's not how it works. I propose that the Government propose appropriate measures to address this disease, but not to alleviate it. On another occasion - I said - it is not enough to treat serious toothache or gangrene with aspirin. This may relieve the pain. Some people are out of their minds, and they know that. But it takes an intervention into the gum, into the core of the problem. And I'm afraid this novel will only cause boomerang. They'll call Langus's other carriers, and they'll say, "Yeah, you opened the door on the road, and now we'd do it." Then we will make a big change in legislation, but there will be no major impact, I think. The problem of gangrene financial non-compliance will not be solved, nor can it be solved, because on the other hand we have a host of international rules and European Acquis communautaria, which does not allow it. It is clear to me that this novel will probably be adopted, O. K., at least two parts are fine, but I suggest you reconsider if we've already done the wrong procedure. Consider how to solve financial indiscipline. Not only in transport or transport, but also in all other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u224	Yes, I must say, dear colleague of Dr. Pavlich, we agree here, because we've found that out before and here. But here we are tactfully considering the Road Transport Contracts Act. I believe that when we look at the International Convention on the Transport of Goods, which is much broader and covers all areas of the transport market. However, I would like to reiterate why in the SDS Group we cannot support the proposed amendment, because we would then destroy what the proposer essentially wanted to regulate in the proposed amendments to the law. This is, let me read once again what I have already read: "The proposal of the novel law brings greater safety and transparency to carriers on the market. It introduces the responsibility of the consignor and the contracting authority to pay the fare in the event that the transport contract is concluded by the carrier, the transport contracting authority and the consignor who is not the contracting authority at the same time." Here I am convinced that if we now assess this here in the National Assembly on a professional basis, it is, of course, the only acceptable thing to do, and in some way to establish, I will say the payment of these services by replacing this legal void, which is, in fact, replaced by this. I am sure that whatever we look at and whatever we try to do, of course, we would always come up with a dilemma, but who, in fact, is responsible when the carrier does a certain service. But again, we can't watch the transport of services in general. But we need to focus on the proposal for a road transport law where the proposaler is trying to sort things out. It is clear to me that if we now make a wider assessment and try to figure out what the other service providers will do, they will probably come into a bit of a dilemma. The proposer himself would probably have to cut into some other areas to sort things out. I am convinced that the applicant was at the moment trying to protect the interests of the carriers. By submitting a proposal for amendments and supplementing the Road Transport Contracts Act, this is also some protection that actually protects the carrier and ensures that the service is rendered in some way also settled. Therefore, once again, I say that we cannot support the proposal of the Social Democrats' Group of Members that Article 1 be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u225	I'm still opening the application. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Dear President! Given that this amendment is likely to be smoothly rejected - so to speak - I would ask if the actual opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly could be obtained at Article 1, an explicit opinion. Because if we find that we are adopting a law that is inconsistent with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, then we are again making a mistake. And you know, in labor law or in the Labour Relations Act, it says that a worker who makes a mistake during the work process can lose his job or his right to work. Unfortunately, we do not have this provision. But we take a lot of stupidities. The so-called false responsibility is not borne here by anyone among you. And I'd like to ask you to do it in your conscience, honestly and in accordance with the law. It would therefore make sense to do what I asked before voting on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Bajc. Then Mr. Pavliha, who failed to file his application.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I said that we would support the amendments and additions to the Road Transport Contracts Act for one simple reason, as this allows the carrier to be more secure. Indeed, what Paul’s colleague said is that we are actually trying to regulate by means of this provision or by amending this law, which could possibly be regulated by another field law. It's called paying discipline, and I don't know what it is. But I don't know - but I don't go into this - given that Dr. Pavliha, a professor in this field, is either cutting it with some general law, which we call a bond law, that there is no way to regulate such provisions in some law in the field, such as this general provision, which is in force in the bond code. And second of all, my friend Lucky Friend, one brief replica to you. From the material we have when you spoke about the current Minister of Transport, when he spoke at the hearing that he would not submit to any lobby, I don't think that, either, despite the fact that this law was transmitted by the Government to the procedure on 13 July this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich. Do you have a replica? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u230	Dear colleague Bajc! That's true, but if the minister could see the nonsense of this marriage, he could have removed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I'd answer my colleague Baitz. Yes, if we adopt the Law on General Financial Discipline, which deals with all areas of, say, services, then it is "lex specialis" a special law that also affects regional laws. That's what we're avoiding. And the essence would be to shorten the appeal procedures, including enforcement. My proposal is as follows. Because I am aware that neither Mr Friend's proposal nor my or our amendment will go through. The Government still has the opportunity to amend this Article in the third reading. Let us, for God's sake, convene one meeting where experts, representatives of our Legislative and Legal Service, other interested Members will be present. Well, at least two I see. Mr. Marinich, Mr. Friend, Mr. Baitz, and me. And try to find a compromise while, of course, thinking about this global change in legislation that we urgently need. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you understand that what I am doing here today has nothing to do with something political. I simply intimately believe that what I'm saying is true. And take your hand if I offer it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u233	Thank you. Who else would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to this Article? Representative of the Government, will you? Be my guest, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to give a brief explanation about the amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. The essence of the transport contract is to carry out transport as a payment service. The Road Transport Contracts Act is also based on the principle of dispositiveness, which means that in principle the parties can determine the content of the transport contract themselves. With the proposed text of Article 1, we would like to introduce, as a proposal, the legal basis for the joint liability of both the consignor and the transport order for the payment of the fare in the event that all three parties are involved in the transport contract. So a contracting entity as a person who enters into a transport contract with the carrier. The consignor shall, on the basis of the contract concluded between the contracting authority and the carrier, hand over the goods for transport to the carrier and, subsequently, the carrier who shall, on the basis of the transport contract concluded with the contracting authority through the consignor, exercise the ability of the transport contracting authority. In a specific case, it is not the different contracts between the participants, but it is a single contract. This is the transport contract in which all three parties are involved. This is therefore the specificity of the transport contract concluded between the transport contracting authority and the carrier, since in the course of its execution, the consignor enters the contract at the point of delivery of the goods to the carrier instead of the contracting authority. Such cases in practice occur many times, especially when the goods which are intended to be brought to the place of destination under the contract of carriage are not located at the contracting authority’s disposal but are located at the consignor’s disposal. In doing so, it should also be pointed out that the goods are the property of the contracting authority and not of the consignor. The proposed text of Article 1 is therefore intended to improve, in the present case, the payment discipline of both the transport contracting authority and the consignor and to ensure that the carrier receives payment for the transport carried out. As the current legislation on road transport does not solve the specific cases described, we have adopted the initiative of road hauliers and have also tried to regulate such situations legally. The proposed text of Article 1 therefore specifically addresses the problems that we have been alerted to by motorists. Therefore, we do not support the amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. Allow me at the end to apologize to the Minister for being on a business trip abroad in Lisbon at the European Conference of Ministers of Transport, so that he cannot be present today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. Verlich. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Mr. Verlich. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I propose that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the law be considered at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u237	Thank you. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 16.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and take your seats. Thank you. We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 124. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 125 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 125. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 77 Members present and 73 votes against 2. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 25 October 2007, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Bill of Supplements to the Law on Payments, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment under Article 1 of the SNS Members' Group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under Article 1, Article 2, of the DeSUS Group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment under number 3, the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We decide on the amendment under Article 4 of the Article 1 Group of Members. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 5 and 6 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of Mrs Shirca's vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u241	Thank you very much. In 2001, Slovenians spent €95 million on gambling, and already €209 million in 2006. Domestic spending on gambling per capita increased from 48 euros in 2001 to 104 in 2006. It's a lot of money. We talked today about 7 billion old tolars that are collected and able to go for humanitarian, sports and disability purposes. Therefore, it is not irrelevant how these funds are distributed or how the world is composed, which is also concerned with the transparency or purpose of these funds. You dismissed the amendment to talk about participating in the world of 50% of the disabled and 50% of the humanitarian organization. While it is true that all decisions are made by a two-thirds majority. But it doesn't matter how they represent one another and the other in the world of organizations. We have tried, within our amendment, to enforce what would only make sense for the professional and civil public to be more present and that the government would not have the power it is now taking. He's taking it in a number of levels. Not only has it reduced the share of the largest sports organisation in Slovenia of the Olympic Committee with a smaller number of representations. But even for those, for example, who represent the municipal level, the government will have their fingers. In short, you are accepting a solution and if you supported this amendment, it would certainly be different, where the government is actually taking power over the organisation of the world of the sport foundation, which has so far acted transparently and effectively. Today the Minister of the Beast made it clear: It is necessary to take your director away and put our director inside. So it was said in the morning, nothing but that. And that's true. Because he couldn't be replaced, otherwise the law will be replaced. More. The law shall be replaced in such a way that the perpetrator of the duties shall be appointed by the Government. We're opposed to that. It's right that you would, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you. Any interest in the explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under Article 1 of Article 5 of the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We vote or decide on the amendment under Article 1 of Article 6 of the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are now moving on to Article 5. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 5. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We move on to Article 7 and decide on the amendment of Article 7 of the Zares Group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Mrs. Shirca, please. Presentation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u243	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to point out that you are also concluding this article very quickly because the quota of laws necessary to replace directors where they could not be replaced without a change of law is in a hurry. Despite the fact that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is different, despite the fact that at times it has been the case that the National Assembly has appointed such officials because they will now be professional and because they are supposed to assume new duties, even the perpetrator of the duties should be appointed by the Government. Even this intermediate time when the former Director could perform functions, he is not allowed. It is a matter of haste, and it is the mill that allows it so quickly to change the law, without any listening to the need to use reason, but not the feelings that go in the direction: let us quickly set up ours and remove yours. As I repeat, today this has already been said in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr Bevk, on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Zares Group, or there is little chance that it will succeed, and we will also support the amendment of the Social Democrats Group in the second vote. It is important to know that both foundations, both the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, are in the midst of calls for proposals. I repeat, in the middle of the bidding! It is almost EUR 30 million to be redeployed on the basis of these calls, such as for sport, this call ends on 15 November. That is why the Government is so hasty that it is necessary to replace the directors of both foundations with the perpetrators of duties within the 30 days following the adoption of this Act. It is clear that appetites under these means are very high, so it is necessary to place people in these places according to the size of the coalition, so that, of course, these funds will also be easier in a more proper manner than they may imagine. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the Social Democrats' Group, which says that the new directors should not be named until 60 days after the appointment of the new Foundation Council, and at that time the Director's work should be carried out. However, let's say the Director of the Sport Foundation runs out of his mandate in February next year, but the Government is in a hurry to put its people in these places, as it places them everywhere. I think it would be right to support an amendment that is somehow in the sense of these similar solutions as we know them in other similar cases. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] organisations and institutions. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Horvath on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. We will not support the amendment of the Really Group. The fact is that a different composition of the councils is envisaged by amending the law, a slightly different procedure for the appointment of directors and the nature of the performance of their functions. Before she was, as we all know, unprofessional, now she'll be professional. We therefore believe that there are also legitimate reasons for the early termination of the term of office of Directors. This will, of course, give the possibility to prepare, in a responsible, professional and timely manner, all the necessary measures to implement the provisions of amendments and additions to the law, as well as other legal acts relating to amendments and additions to the law. With the immediate professionalisation of the Director's post, we will reduce the risk of preparing and implementing current calls for proposals, taking full responsibility for all processes within the Foundations. This also ensures a higher quality of work, transparency and expertise, greater operationality and accountability. As we say, we will reject the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr. Skolč, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our Group of Members, colleagues and colleagues will also support this provision. Only in this way, gentlemen, will we prevent this spirit of junta from taking over Slovenia. We are constantly faced with trying to show things in different areas as completely disorderly, as chaotic and as such, where the government must cut down with its instruments. You'll remember that there was something about these areas. Now you've crossed paths with the regulation of disability, humanitarian and sports foundations. Mr. Minister Beast has made it very clear before that when we settle things, we'll turn them back, and I'll use the word "civilists" on purpose. That's worrying. You're going to tear up all the social sub-systems first and then you're going to be saviors, you're going to take over, you're going to share the money, you're going to subjugate them, and then you're going to be willing to give them back to civil society management. This is something that Parliament must resist. Let's wake up, stop reading the papers, I mean during the session, otherwise it would be helpful if you read other people's, not just the locals, and start thinking with your head!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u251	Thank you very much. An explanation was given that the adoption of the proposed Article of the Government was necessary because a new function would be performed and a new Council was formed. That's half-truth. A new government solution is needed to immediately disable the work of the current directors. Although they have a very short mandate and although the Government expects a new Council to be set up within 6 months and the new Council will have to appoint new directors within two months. It's six months, tops. In spite of the mandate, these six months have not been able to hold up because they would endanger the ruling coalition's power. Don't be ridiculous, please, and stop these things! That's why I'm going to support both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! The exchange of directors of the two foundations is today being attempted by the ruling coalition to present itself as a different status. So it's about professionalizing functions. We all know that's not the way it's meant to be. The aim is to take control and the human resources tsunami of this ruling coalition continues its path, which it has already outlined very early in this mandate. As I have already said in the debate, both the opposition and the disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations are not shortsighted to understand in this simple way your interventions into these laws. And if we were able to understand the Minister earlier in the discussion, it was clear that it was necessary to replace those directors who had been appointed by our so-called party. I think that these are poor arguments, and it would be correct for such an amendment, which deletes such a solution, to receive support in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not repeat this because the leader of our Group has explained why we will not support the amendment. But I'd tell Mr. Skull if he thinks his brain is playing a few symphonies higher than the others in this National Assembly, forgive his colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u256	Mr Anderlich, I think that a number of Members have already begun with controversy and regret before Soko, but nevertheless, Mr Sok, there is no time for controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Skull told us to start thinking with our heads. Just because I don't support some of his ideas doesn't mean I don't think with my head. But if he thinks we have to vote like he thinks it's his right. Once again, I will not support this amendment, or else he can go to Mr Luksic's meeting, and he will tell him how to think with his head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u258	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me tell you, dear colleagues, is there still an institution in our country, an organization where the government has not set up its own human resources policy? Tell me, is there any other organization in our country? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I believe, Comrade Jerovšek, that your strength is funny, yes, but this forced laughter on your part is obvious when you run out of arguments to support the solutions proposed by the Government, which are bad, which are politicized. You know, the government is also giving itself power over Parliament by this law. What Parliament should decide now is attributed to the Government, despite the fact that Parliament's constitutional rights are in place. And that, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not fair. In our country, we have three separate branches of government, and the government of Janez Janša in this country cannot attribute everything to itself. It's not fair, so I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u260	I would ask you to be aware that we are in the stage of explanations of vote and not in the stage of debate and controversy. Mr. Gaber is next. Explanation in its own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The vote under this Article will show whether it is indeed for those who have proposed this law to obtain professional directors or directors of these foundations. If they're interested in anything else, then this article will remain the way it is. I'm afraid we all know there's something else going on in here. Colleague Školč has already mentioned that, unfortunately, a person gets a feeling in the argument of some February of the current coalition, as if they wanted to introduce some kind of military organisation of this society. And if the government cannot hold back its fingers and allow the mandates to expire normally and then, after the procedures provided for by this law, we come to the directors, it is, ladies and gentlemen, bad for the country, and unfortunately for this coalition. This is what we're going to vote on here. I'll support the supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u262	Thank you. I am reopening my application for explanations of vote on my behalf. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The times when someone ravishingly cried out, "It doesn't matter that he's a literate, it's important that he's ours!" They're way back. Unfortunately, however, the spirit of this famous saying is returning to this Chamber of Parliament. I understand in politics that before the elections we will divide ourselves into lefts, rights, into ours, yours, but that we will now begin to divide the disabled into yours and ours - sorry please, but this is too much. In order not to compare myself with this, of course, I will gladly support both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I must say that now it is very uncomfortable to hear how in Parliament, which should also exercise control, some are looking only at the criteria, if there was someone we put there, then no matter what he does, no matter what law is important, it is important that we keep him there as long as possible. Colleagues and colleagues have found competent services to pay for more than €2,000 a month without any adequate legal basis. We were all familiar with this, and so were you. And if then the Government has the right to act and the opportunity to act also by Parliament to establish a legal state, this is not only a right, it is also a duty based on the principle of the legality of the Slovenian Constitution. I therefore argue that any delay in adopting this legislation would, of course, be inappropriate. At the same time, I must say that it is very unusual to stress so much the question of possible exchange, even in the light of these circumstances, if we know that this story has been heard as a flood in the past two, three years and today the one, legal [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The entities in which the exchanges took place do not operate only slightly better under economic criteria, they operate several times better according to economic criteria, colleagues and colleagues, which means that those of you who were obviously incompetent have been replaced by very capable people. [[...]] Incompetence has replaced ability. And those who you've been saying are incompetence and criteria, only that it's ours, the thing of history - yes, it is, and since then it's exactly three years, because three years is, from what [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You've stopped putting people like that up. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u267	Thank you very much. But now this talker in front of me has actually said honestly, honestly what it is and I thank him. Since it is not the right director, it is necessary to amend the legislation so that this Director can also be replaced. I cannot believe that we have an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which says that the founder of the Foundation is the National Assembly, which says that it is necessary to explain why the director or v.d. the director is appointed by the Government and the ruling coalition does not hold back at all. Simply as a roller in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, over all warnings without problem, this is no problem for you. And today I could not believe when I was in this Chamber, so I will also support this amendment when the Minister freely admitted that the current director was from another political nest. Please! After almost 20 years of Slovenian democracy, we have come to the point that Mr Oman's river was paraphrased again, whether it is written or not, it is important that it is ours. In short, it does not matter how it works, the problem is that it is from the wrong political nest, so it is necessary to amend the legislation and replace it, regardless of the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly warns that this is controversial and therefore I ask you, if there is any more rationality in this National Assembly, support this amendment, because you will only take into account what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly notes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u268	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u269	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposed amendment. We have already said in the debate that both the directors of the Council of the two foundations and the Councils have a mandate to expire. The term of office of the Council of Fiho shall be from 2003 to 2007 and shall expire this year. It is the same with the world of the Sports Foundation, which also expires in early 2008. And there would be a legal void for us to decide whether to look for a new director or a new composition of the councils. It is clear that it takes more time for the Councils to be set up, because organisations need to meet, they need to call on their bodies, propose representatives and then propose to collect proposals for the Director. In our opinion, the government is solving this period. It could happen to us that we would then extend both directors if we took it that within six months one and the other councils would be established. In that case, you probably wouldn't be too worried. Only one month less than your term of office can be a problem for you, but it can also be extended against all the rules. That is why I will not support this amendment, but I am sure that the saints will be set up very quickly and will then also have the necessary procedures to appoint directors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. Today we have heard from the mouth of one of the coalition MPs a new subterfuge for the vision of the human resources combination. The incapacitated become capable, so the incapacitated need to be replaced. I would suggest to colleagues from the coalition and colleagues that you become too much involved in the power of the past governments and those who are in the past, and too much of the study and in-depth, which is why today's problems, even though you sit in government chairs for three years, you see too many times twice, sometimes even in a square or a pile. I would suggest you calm down, it's a good year until the next parliamentary elections, don't rush, let go, let go where they are, and let your work end in a capable manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I was somehow on the verge of explaining and accepting this amendment whether or not it was necessary. But silence is sometimes gold, and if some of the coalition partisans, soldiers, would not advertise, I might even vote differently, but now I will definitely support this amendment. Why would I support him? For the first time, because this government is doing very transparently what the previous government has been doing, it may not be transparent. He's setting up his crew. I don't agree with those coalition soldiers who say it's better. That's not true. The Collegiate case is one such case where it is not better, Comrade Grims. Look at the statistics, it's no better. Comrade Jerovšek, I must mention you, I'm sorry, but you were arguing yourself during the explanation of the voice of my fellow Member. AFZ was one very good organization, which you do not understand mainly because of the capacity of the brain you have. But if we move on. It's easier for you to speak, honourable coalition Members, because you're playing lottery with God's help. We who play lucky are one other story. But it is true that with God’s help you want to break or amend legislation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In this case, until now, the founder of the foundations has been the National Assembly, and today we are giving this to the Government. [[...]] Why? To save those three K's, as you promised. Corruption, customerism, if I recall you, Collegiate, is the third K in this story. Man for all areas, including for gambling with God's help in this National Assembly. I'd be happy to support it, so I can take your sweetness. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u274	Before I say thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I believe that you are not all capable of a suitable level of debate, but I expect most of it. Thank you, Mr. Zagorac. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u275	Your Honor, Mr. President. My level of debate will be in line with today's level of debate. I may not be able to go that low, but I apologize for that, too. Look, the National Assembly is the founder, and it is clear that, as such, it probably has this possibility to say something about who will lead the matter. And putting matters into the hands of the Government, which has proven itself repeatedly with its greed and greed, of course, makes no sense. Although we have heard today that the government has absolutely nothing to do with having control of this money to manage it, but what kind of team did Mr Minister come to this National Assembly points me to the fact that the matter is very important? Or you don't have anyone at home to sit here. Well, that's possible all day, too, but I don't believe people don't like to sacrifice themselves that much. Of course I'll support the amendment. He supported this because it seems very urgent to me that the National Assembly still looks at everything the Government is doing, to see such opposition Members more precisely and coalitionly possibly benevolent to the government, but we have to look at both of them and control it, even one that likes to invent quickly, likes to plant something, likes to lie, so out of joy to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The government behaves as if it had been subscribed to government chairs until death, for it places everything, but really all the power to decide for itself. The government obviously does not realize that it will change once and then someone else will have too much leverage of power, too much power. On the other hand, I do not understand why the Government wants to do everything, because, finally, in this House, every single thing the Government proposes as a farmer in the chess field is voted on by the coalition. But the worst thing I think is that this is what's happening here at the expense of two organizations, and they really don't deserve to get caught up in political interests and games. Organizations that care for people with disabilities are certainly very noble organisations and care for people who need help. On the other hand, humanitarian organizations bring together those who are willing to devote their free time voluntarily to helping others, not least to the disabled. And that now the opinions are being fucked and that now, as I said earlier, for political reasons, someone wants to arrest these two organizations, it certainly is not in the pride of the government. I will definitely support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u278	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I will not repeat the argument I had earlier on behalf of the Group of Members that it is necessary to resist the Government, which creates emergency situations and then calls for urgent intervention, otherwise temporary. In the government, there are many people who know this theory that the dictatorship of the proletariat is necessary conditions for the country to die later, so they will be able to consult a lot about it there. I believe what my colleagues are saying here to be guided by good intentions, but even if you are guided by good intentions, I must say that in my personal name I must speak out against your humanitarian action and the Government's humanitarian action, which will instead of all these organisations manage these funds. I don't think it's necessary. If you truly believe in the autonomy of civil society, which is also widely proclaimed by the Minister of the Beast, then leave these organizations to set up the saints themselves, let them propose the directors who will run it, set out the criteria for how they will divide it and carry out only those necessary controls. I don't believe in your humanitarian action, there are too many elements that indicate that you are deeply sorry to have mastered all segments of society.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u280	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u281	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this amendment in the hope that I will not have to vote for another, because, after all, I think there may be some inadequacies that many Members and Members of the Coalition will still vote for this amendment. The fact is that when we put on the scale, today we have heard that one of the main reasons for replacing the director of the Sports Foundation, because, as we have heard, it is mainly the director of the Sport Foundation that we are changing the law to replace a director, just as we have amended the Law on the Courts, so that we can prevent someone from being appointed President of the Court who was not, at the will of the Minister of Justice, and so on and so forth. I think that it is really necessary to get rid of such a strange way of thinking that we are changing the laws so that the coalition can be named by its will or by the Government or the President of the Government by its will to appoint leading people in this country. That's why I think it's crazy that the coalition keeps kicking its head through the wall and destroying its reputation in front of [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] citizens and citizens. [[...]] I think it really looks like these last kicks are dying cows before the loss of power just today. And so I think - be smart, if you want to win the next election, let's change your working methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u282	Is there any other desire to explain? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening a new application. While you are applying, I would like to ask, truly without offense, without dispute, to explain your vote as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u283	If I had listened to what was said in the morning and followed up with what was said now, then I would certainly have said - because it makes no sense, leave it and go where it goes! That's what it's all about. Is it possible that today 23.10.2007 we are thinking about this, I am speaking, of course, of the ruling coalition, that we are suspending civil society, that we do not trust it that, as we have been doing for decades after our constitution, if you want from the last constitution, unification is an acknowledgment of your relationship on what, let's say, is free and possible in your free time. I can be a member of a humanitarian, disabled, sports organization, and I can work in this organization, I can try to implement the program, I can provide material conditions for these organizations to work, but only someone is the one, and please let me tell you because you're not doing anything anyway. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] does not help if I say something, it is only someone who will say, "Now I know how to act", at the end, when these things must also be recognised as socially beneficial, as an integral part of our arrangement of this system, when it comes to the implementation of some policy in the field of the foundation and so on. [[...]] Can't say what he said [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Minister, this morning, "the thing is fully loaded, we have to take over, we have to sort it all out, and then, once we're done, we're gonna hand it over to the civilians." [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. I will try to be very exemplary in Parliament. This National Assembly is active primarily in government form on, let us begin, in Parliament on Parliament, called the IPU, the International Parliamentary Union. The government representatives who sit here and are present there are fighting with all their might, and I am therefore grateful for the role of Parliament and the supervision of Parliament over the role and involvement of the Government. It's okay. Slovenia will chair the European Union. We are dating colleagues from the coalition, I respect them, at European meetings, where it is an essential element: we parliaments will oversee the work of the Government. "Scrutini", the expression we hear in the COSACs, at the meeting of representatives of parliaments, many times, we want control, even parliament must have entry into the United Nations. This is the first approach. Parliament must have control over the work of governments within the framework of the European Union. You're all fairly representing these interests. I am surprised, however, that in this case, in the National Assembly, you want and demand that the Government take control of Parliament. Worst of all, it's ugly and dirty duplicity. In the world, Parliament, in Europe Parliament, should take the powers of Parliament at home. No, he can't. Parliament is the only democratic body, we are elected from the people, we represent the people and the Government cannot assume the powers of Parliament, colleague and colleague. Those who are with me or me with you, in these international [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I began to wonder what was so terrible and what was the function with which we were willing to pour so much bile over our colleagues. And I went to get some documents, and I found that this person you're so gallantly defending, she said she remained loyal to amateurism. And then on the same, virtually the same page was written down what this amateurism means. This means half a million Euros in nine years. And that means 60,000 euros a year. And that's amateurism. I compared this to the salary of the president of the country, which is a professional function. I think the president of the state is an amateur, as far as it's concerned, about some amateur function. And if it's worth so much bile to pour on your fellow Members, then I'm getting a lot of clarity. And this is also written, and it has not been denied that there are other benefits, which mean much more. And here I would have really attached it to it, that probably all this time those three K's were going on, and there's probably some sort of order to be done. And while we're at it, I'd say that at least we'd stay principled, and if someone's already telling us that we're going to put civilians somewhere, then someone later says who's defending the same positions, and we want to look at everything militaryly. Let's talk about whether we're gonna be civilians or whether we're gonna be something else, let's just have the same criteria and also what amateurism means, and what someone under amateurism imagines, whether it's really amateurism or whether it's already in some other area that we've talked about with the three K's. That's why I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! If I have any comment on this law, it is only that the Government has come very late with it to Parliament, but that it is, I will say, an apology in connoisseurs, because it has aligned itself with all private institutions or with all institutions and with all the institutions that are actually involved in this law. And look, it is already in Article 1 that the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of the Sport Organisation will be seven members proposed on the proposal of the Olympic Committee Assembly. How'd it go so far? Was it also on a proposal from the Assembly or was it on a proposal from the President? In short, much more democratic than it has ever been. Therefore, such insinuations and insinuations are indeed incorrect. You also know in the opposition that if any things are wrong, I am also very critical of my own government, in which case the government has good and fair purposes. And even more. Comrade Tone, you used to be angry, now you're jumping back into the word when I speak. You know, so far, a lot of things have been flying through sports organisations without decisions, without functioning in accordance with the legislation in force. However, when the Ministry forced them to start operating in accordance with the law, they received over 100 complaints based solely on one call. A lot of things have been wrong, and it's about time these things were fixed. And on the other hand, at the end of the end. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u290	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I am more familiar with the FIHO Foundation from my work area, the funding of disabled humanitarian organisations. I am firmly convinced that this law was needed, which we are talking about today and will then be voted on, for the substantive reasons of the FIHO Foundation and for the political reasons of the Sports Foundation. At the time both foundations were established, which was set up by the National Assembly with a decree, the National Assembly had even more autonomy than it did today. And by this decree, he gave both foundations, I speak for FIHO, because I know her, autonomy, all autonomy. In order to achieve this, it was therefore agreed that the key acts governing the life and work of the Foundation and the agreement to appoint the Director proposed by the Foundation Council. The Foundation’s autonomy shall be carried out on the basis of the Foundation’s world. From neutralising this would be a good substantive shift at the FIHO Foundation, but let it be the way it is. Such mistrust, as it is now a government to this autonomy, is a mirror of a regime, I cannot say otherwise. Such a lack of trust in people. I don't see any need to wait six months for the foundation's new world, because it should be autonomous to propose, if the government wants to name it, but it would be good to call it the National Assembly, because the National Assembly has also granted autonomy to the foundation, but unfortunately today we are increasingly exposed to the executive power, which is not good for parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u293	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think there's been a very severe tsunami in the personnel area across Slovenia, not a small tsunami. Some mocked my colleague Gabru at the time when we spoke, but if we look at the human resources move in the area of administrative workers and administration, in the economy, if we look at the media field and so on, we see that what is happening is not good for this country. Even some highly capable people may lose their heads overnight because of some political pedigree. I'm going to vote for this amendment because we've listened to something like this once before. This is when we amended the law on research activities, where only two articles of the law led all public research institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. And these people, who were then politically staffed and appointed in these areas, so that I will not be offensive, I will say that they are doing nothing better than those who have been so far, and that even the successes in this area are no better than they have been before. I think, colleagues and colleagues, if I look at all this happening, let it be local self-government, school legislation, human resources, that I had the hope, in the fourth term, that we would be building a normal post-modern, plural society, not now that we are creating a decommissioned people with our own activities on several dimensions. And woe to the people who have such Members, who do not know here and in this Chamber, cross their conflicts and work for the good of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u295	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment, because I do not think it is good, and on the other hand, I think the article you want to amend with the amendment is appropriate. It is not enough for someone to say that this has established a dispute, as Mr Lahovnik said when he reasoned his vote. We believe that this provision is correct and appropriate. Whether it will be disputed or not, it depends on whether someone feels hurt and causes the right conflict. If this dispute is triggered, this will determine the dispute. Of course not. Therefore, such speech cannot be the reason for the adoption of an amendment to fix it. On the other hand, I think it is quite low that two of those who reasoned on their voice abused the Minister's words in their debate and said that he said that the system was changing, that one of the political options had previously been removed from his political nest, and now another will do so. No, he made it very clear that the whole story was [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] was set up to manage the entire sports system, in fact, by people from your political nest, and now it will not be so, but will be managed by people from no political nest at all. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u296	Thank you. Please. Is there another interest in explaining the voice in his own name? Another round of applications. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is simply a matter of the fact that the Government cannot assume the powers of the National Assembly. If anyone has not seen this, then he can reply that the Government has come too late with this proposal to Parliament and that it is good. I can give him another round of applause. I would add to Mr Lakhovnik - what he thinks when he speaks of what the Government can and what the Government can't do. The government can also propose unconstitutional laws and we can confirm them. What are you doing here? It is perfectly normal for the Government to propose such laws, whether we support them or not. Euphoria is large, normal, I understand, less than 350 days until the end of this reign. Brothers and sisters, let's grab what's left, that's the motto and sell the railroads, grab Luke, we'll be here at Loteria, but no, then we gave the boater, the banks have already gone anyway. Yeah, well, that's normal. You know, when the devil takes the truth, then the lie is good. And that is normal today, but we are dealing with such matters in this House. After we are hungry, I myself have proposed an extensive debate, and I am interested to see how much the key will push you to have an extensive discussion about this. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that 10% of people are on the brink of poverty, and the Minister said that 42% are people who enjoy social support and are on the verge of poverty. I'd like to know if you're going to have an extensive discussion about this. I'm very interested in that. Of course, I will support this amendment because if there were no such amendments, the Slovenian public would not know what you are doing. But there's a lot of madness, and that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u298	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to admit, some things I just don't understand anymore. On the one hand, it is clear from the previous authorities that it had a law that replaced everything that could be replaced, but that law, which was a fine basis for substitution, was not good for the current authority, on the basis of which it could also be replaced. He wants something more, a stronger, worse marriage, where jurisdiction is passed on to the government. But the other story that follows me doesn't offer this ad to some new authority that is about to happen, not so long until the new elections, that the new authority will have legislation on the plate when it won't have to change the law anymore and will replace your people on the basis of these laws that you are adopting. The memory will be fresh, it will be very short to remember how it happened before the elections, when everything changed, and the pattern will be on the table because such a ratio of forces is likely to be gone. Two days ago, the story of Peterla happens and there will be a new ratio of power, because you force some new power to replace people with your pattern. I don't think this is a good solution, and I'm going to support these amendments that are taking the matter somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u300	Any interest in explaining your voice in your own name? It's not. We then vote on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 7. It's the first amendment. If it is accepted, then the amendment under number 2 is irrelevant. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 27, for 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 7 of the Group of Social Democrats. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. All I see is Mr. Bevek's hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u301	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. We're giving you another chance to get a retrial. The essence of this law lies in this particular article 7. However, I would like to say this, if you had data on half a million Euros of unpaid fees, you could have acted in those three years when you were in power. But it's a systemic legal matter, which has already been pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. The founder of the Foundation is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which gives consent under the applicable rules to the appointment of directors and v.d. Directors. In the end, he calls it the world of the foundation. According to the new law, this right was exercised by the government. Instead of the National Assembly, the Government will now give its consent to the appointment when the councils of both foundations are established. According to Article 7, as the Government has written, it will be v.d. Directors just named her own name. It is said that the executive power by this law interferes with the legislative authority and lower powers of the National Assembly. This is not in accordance with the rules in force so far. And also the Legal and Legislative Service has specifically warned, quote that "it is also disputed that the Government appoints v.d. Director within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act." That's why we tabled these amendments and ask for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u302	Thank you. Is there any interest in explaining your voice in your own name? I'm opening applications. Mr. Friday, please. [[He's quitting.]] Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm gonna use some syntagmo, and I don't want to be insulting, but it's a phrase. In this case, I think it's an amendment to protect the sacred cows, for all eternity. Of course, I will not support this amendment, just as I did not support the previous amendment of the parliamentary group, which should rightly be called "Really LDS". I have some parliamentary experience, and I know that such squawking, wheezing and frenzy always occurs only when you have a market of popcorn for cheap money, for money that should be primarily for charitable purposes, for humanitarian purposes, for the development of sport and all that. But apparently, your reactions suggest it was catastrophic to get the money you used to pay for election campaigns and lots of money. It was a terrible transmission. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u304	Mr. Jerovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u305	Yeah, no, I'm explaining. And a scary scene. And, of course, you're shaking and you're shaking so it'll be different. But I think you've owned the economy so well that gentlemen can now pay you from what you've done before. I also use the words that have been said before - you obviously think that some of them are subscribers or your customers are subscribers to death, for all eternity, to put these people up and that these foundations are powered for purposes for which these foundations are not intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u306	Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, but that was more controversial than an explanation. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u307	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I got up on my own so that there would be a higher level of explanation for the voice than you said before. But, you see, even your fellow Slovenian Democratic parties can go to a low level and to a low level and not to a voice explanation. I'll back the amendment myself. Why would I support him? Because holy cows are not to be repeated. But I'm afraid if we don't support this amendment, the sacred cows will repeat themselves just to be in white clothes. The only thing I'm afraid of is not Milk, they're not gonna be black-and-white, they're gonna be white. This is where I see the problem. I'm also wondering if he'll [[If you could calm Mr Jerovska down a little bit, you could kill him if you wanted to.]] But at least calm him down, please. I wonder if the money from these humanitarian organizations will be going as transparently as it was at the Pediatric Clinic when he went from one transaction account to another, but this other account was from Mr. Zavrl's miracle boyfriend, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You will manage hundreds of millions of euros going to gambling. [[...]] By your principles, by God's help. But no, these are all our payments, and here we believe that there are games of luck. And don't say any holy cow will stay here hungry. Above all, the whites will feed on very smooth, respected gentlemen and ladies of the government and government coalitions. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u308	Mr. Zagorac, thank you. School.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll support this amendment. Here we have heard many arguments that are misleading. We have heard that wages and income are being paid unjustifiably. We have heard that political parties and the remains of the old regime are also attached to these foundations. I allow all of this to be true. But that's not an argument to change the law. I do not want to reach here a level acceptable to the President of the National Assembly and practiced by my long-standing colleague, Mr Jerovšek, but this argument is wrong. If there is a violation of the law, there are mechanisms and authorities that must prosecute these violations. What is being tried here is for Parliament and the public to convince you that there are some violations, so it is necessary to dissolve these foundations, take them politically, cut down civil society institutions, make order and so on. This is an argument that conceals this greed of political parties after the control of the entire society. Wrong reasoning cannot be the basis for fair and decent legislation. And this legislation, as my colleague Brenčič said, goes a step back from what these organizations achieved in the previous century and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Last thousand years, if you want to hear it. You're obviously preparing regulations for a time that none of us will survive if these rules are very long. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u310	Thank you. Looks like there's no interest left. Then we conclude our explanation of vote. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 7. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Mr. Skolcz, will the LDS Group table an amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u311	Let me explain. As long as we can prevent it, he will say, this volunteerism advocated here by the government and the ruling coalition, we will try, and it is condemned to failure, and it will certainly be dedicated to the previous anniversary of the novel, which celebrated the battles with the windmill on the wind.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u312	Thank you. Then I interrupt this agenda item and I expect you to prepare an amendment by tomorrow. Tomorrow after the final vote, we will proceed with this point. Continue with the interruption of the 5th item of the agenda. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u313	Mr President, while we can prepare this amendment by tomorrow, we would ask that we deal with it in such a way that we can consult stakeholders. These are quite a few, and I hope that you will allow yourself, just as you are the ruling coalition that has been arbitrarily moving these laws to do so and that this will be done in the coming week.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u314	I think it would be enough for an amendment by Friday, Mr. Scholch. Can you do that? To make Friday after the final vote. Another procedural proposal, Mr Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u315	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Given that this is very much, I will say, a burning and delicate issue, as we have heard, if not otherwise, in explaining the voice, I would politely ask you, given that Mr Školč called an interested public, which I think also includes parliamentary groups, if this deadline could be extended to the end of the scheduled deadline for this meeting, by Tuesday, and on Tuesday at the end of Tuesday, we would decide on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u316	Thank you. I don't think that's necessary. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the craftsmen's law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposed that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We vote on the proposal to conclude the debate at this meeting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 62 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 25 October 2007, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Digital Broadcasting. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the drafter proposed that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are therefore moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 25 October 2007, following the adjournment of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 67, against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Transport Contracts. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 30, for 39. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted to the amended law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled in accordance with Article 139 of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 52, for 20. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal of Mr Ljub Germić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Ljub Germić's question on measures to reduce inflation." Explanation of voice. Here you are, Mr. Germich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So according to Eurostat 2004 data, Slovenia was living below the poverty threshold of 11% of the Slovenes and Slovenes. On the international day of the fight against poverty, humanitarian organisations tell us that more and more people need help. In his presentation of the budgets for 2008 and 2009, the President of the Government presented to us that the budgets represent a continuation of the pace of development and a rapid increase in prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia. High inflation, the highest among all countries in the euro area, a remarkable rise in prices of basic living needs, of course, speaks of the fact that we may not be able to talk about increasing prosperity, but we can certainly talk about increasing dearth in the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Government tells the public that the Government has taken all measures to curb existing trends. He also says that we do not properly understand his statements that people understand so that they can understand them as insults, that they can understand them as underestimating when he speaks of the fact that we can observe bread crumbs from dumpsters and that things are not alarming. It seems right for us to give the President of the Government and the ruling coalition the opportunity to explain to us the meaning of those measures, in such a way as not to be misinterpreted in public, not by us, not by anyone else. And I think it is important for us to talk in the National Assembly: Are the measures taken by the Government in this way with the budgets adopted - that is, the draft budgets currently under consideration, which the President of the Government is talking about, are countercyclical and measures in other areas - measures that respond to rising inflation that respond to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] increasing the cost of basic living needs? [[...]] And: Are the measures going in the direction of protecting the poorest layers. Therefore, I think it is important that we support the proposal to discuss this content here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u318	Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Mr Bojan Kontić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Bojan Kontić's question on the law on the participation of employees in profits." Mr. Kontic, on behalf of the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that we give the President of the Government the opportunity to complete this reply here at the meeting of the National Assembly in his part. I am convinced that the Government's response can be discussed in a qualitative manner at one of the following meetings and that, of course, we face our views and of course, on how and how, if the law on employee participation in the profits and internal ownership of employees were adopted, this would actually affect inflation or the elimination of certain negative parts of inflation, as we wanted to point out yesterday in the question of the Member State. I think it is right for us to give this opportunity to the President, because yesterday it turned out that interest is wider here, in this room after we passed the law on employee participation in profits, so that employees are also involved, including workers in profit sharing, and not just as it is now - capital owners. This would, of course, allow us, in accordance with the law adopted, if it were similar to what we have proposed, to introduce the participation of employees in profit by not directly affecting consumption, so that these funds may, for a certain period of time, be able to invest and nobility in some way and thus not immediately turn these assets into consumption and thus reduce direct pressure on wage increases and, of course, eliminate certain misunderstandings and certain illogicalities that are now present. Employers and employees should certainly be encouraged by tax incentives, even within this law, to actually share profits. We considered that this would be mandatory because we wanted this to actually happen. But it is also a way of volunteering with tax incentives. Above all, it is important that the President of the Government or the Government, as a whole, finally intervene in the procedure. However, some of the uncertainties could be resolved at one of the following meetings during the debate on the government's response. I therefore propose that you attach the proposal today and vote in favour of this proposal to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. The Group of Social Democrats will certainly support this proposal, which is also logical.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u320	Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mr Dusan Kumr's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to Mr Dusan Kumr's question on the price differences on the land purchased." We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour, 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožef Školč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Dragutin Matei, Minister of the Interior, to Mr Jožef Školč's question on the electoral register of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia." Mr Školč, please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I regret that you did not give me the floor to try to convince my fellow Members that the President of the Government is only given the opportunity to explain the things he blames the media for being misrepresented in public. But if we let this go, I think that these issues, not just mine, are related to the electoral directory and to the powers the Ministry of the Interior has in this regard, are so important and so wide that it is clear to support this debate. We face more and more from day to day, I will say what are ridiculous and incredible situations, but they are all unfortunately linked to the serious elections of the President of the State. If procedurally possible and if the coalition had the will, this debate should be held even faster, perhaps at some extraordinary meeting, because the second round of elections will come, these things are misplaced and we have heard incredible data from the minister. No one knows how many people who are listed in the directory are registered according to the law, and no one knows how many of these people and by whose will they really get electoral material. The burden of this discussion goes far beyond the reference of the opposition Member-minister, so I believe that this debate needs to be supported. Finally, Minister Mate was willing to explain something else, but the rules of procedure did not allow him to do so. If you don't allow me and the public to know more, at least let your minister say what he wanted to say yesterday, and apparently he couldn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u322	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of the Member, Mrs Darje Lovtijar Bebler, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, to Mrs Darje Lavtizar Bebler's question on the amendments to the Penal Code. Mrs Bebler, please explain your vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u323	Just in your own language, Mr President, because this was my question addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mr Sturm. However, I must say that, even with this explanation, I have a poor feeling based on the fact that no proposal has been made in this mandate to address the response of the Minister or the President of the Government to this Assembly. That is why I do not expect my proposal, particularly after you have easily, honourable Members and Members, rejected the proposal to address the question of what is going on with these registers, electoral directories, with the ballots, and you know that all this is based on the law that the National Assembly must adopt with a two-thirds majority. When it comes to criminal legislation, it must be said that it is also one fundamental thing here, that it is a human rights constitution, that it is a personal card of the country's democracy and that it is a question to what extent the state is willing and willing to respect the rule of law, human rights and plural democracy. But no, we're obviously in the process of adopting a new penal code in a very quick way, in a way that has been kept secret all the time, and we don't have the answers to very important questions, whether we're going to face this law in a new time that will be even more democratic, or whether we're going back to the Middle Ages. The Minister of Justice refers to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which requires life imprisonment, but some argue that this is not the case. For God's sake, there is an authentic interpretation of this Rome Statute and it would suggest that we look at this authentic explanation and then stop deceiving our public! I propose, colleagues and colleagues [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u324	Thank you. I saw one hand. Is there still an interest, a greater interest? Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u325	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that there is no need for a special debate in the National Assembly on this issue; it is an indisputable fact that a new criminal code must be adopted in Slovenia, so the existing situation in this area needs to be recast, and I think that the professional and other public have no different views. There is no way that this is about the legislative process of handballing or the speedy procedure, but it is about a question that has been the subject of very in-depth discussions in the professional public for 12 years. All the important experts, theorists, practitioners, academics, judges and the result of all this and the results of the experience in the European Union are involved in these discussions, and in the European Union countries have suggested that a new content be prepared, a new proposal which is practically before the legislative procedure and in any event will be a very broad debate, and the content of this new criminal code will be the result of Parliament's work and the content will also be formulated by this National Assembly and adopted in the final stage. Therefore, there is no need for a specific debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u326	Thank you. Since I see interest, the hands are rising, so I'm opening up an application and I'm asking everyone who wants to explain your voice to sign up. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u327	Thank you. I will support the request for a debate on the response of Minister Šturm to the Member's question, Comrade Darja Lavtijar Bebler. It is difficult to understand how some may claim that it is an indisputable or indisputable fact that there is no difference in view of the issues of criminal policy in Slovenia. I am afraid, but I am not exactly afraid that the Penal Code will happen the same as many other laws, where a coalition of skilled manoeuvres makes it impossible for qualified, professional and interested public to take a position on the proposed amendments at a time when it would allow Members and Members to take a position on the proposed amendments. You will not even support the debate on the answer, nor will you support the proposal for a public presentation of opinions if you do what has been demonstrated under school law to do so after the second debate - this is a model of democracy that you are introducing. And if we go [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Now a step further, and we attach to this legal nihilism, which was previously explained by Comrade Kovacic, that the law is good until no one complains, then I really don't know what the legal image of this country is waiting for us, how deeply we will break down, and certainly the legal profession on criminal policy is about [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] did not unify. [[...]] It would be time for you to hear that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u328	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u329	Thank you for your word. I will not support this proposal, but I will personally support the public presentation of opinions if such a proposal is made. Why does this not make sense at this point in my opinion? For a simple reason, I don't see what we can gain. Indeed, we live in a society facing shadows that have dragged on for many years and decades. In the previous system, you know that an individual wasn't worth much, it was only a collective that mattered. The result is also a lot in our value system, as well as a lot in the criminal system, which is not exactly comparable to other European countries. And the proposal before us is, in my firm belief, a primary opportunity to look at these things in terms of values. Above all, the values of human life, the values of respect for human rights, because I firmly believe that every citizen, every citizen, has the right to a safe life and that this is the right to be placed on the foundation and that respect for human integrity and human life is the fundamental part of each such debate. For we are faced with a situation as it is now in our own court, which may be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] He needs such a debate more than anyone else. [[...]] I'd like to remind you of just one judgment a few weeks ago when the judge pardoned someone who allegedly ran over a police officer on the grounds that he needed another opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u330	Thank you. Did I see another hand? Are there any more arms? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. I would like to say briefly that I myself will not support this debate and the proposal for a debate, because I would not actually get anything at this point in time if we were talking about politics, even the whole day in which this public debate, where experts will have the opportunity to speak, and I agree, and I do not need to worry in advance that there will be no public debate. Otherwise, I would refer to this proposal as only one sentence, as a non-professional, as a politician, if a closed-ended Pluto were a life imprisonment, then it would certainly not kill once more, but perhaps for the third time. This may be my only argument as a policy at this time in relation to this proposal. Whether this will then be regulated by law and not, but this is a matter of broad debate, both at the professional level and we will eventually have to make a decision to the politicians in the National Assembly. At this point, there is really no real and smart argument that there is a broad debate before the profession has spoken, in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u332	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, and the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, to the question of mags. Majde Potrat on the legality of the conduct of the elections of the President of the Republic." We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Boruta Saiovica will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Dragutin Mate's reply to the question of mags. Boruta Saiovica on preventive measures to reduce the number of accidents." Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Possonec. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am confident that my desire for a debate in the National Assembly will run into open ears. Just two or three debates back were heard about human lives and the importance of protecting them. See what the Slovenian Press Agency says: The roads last week took two lives, this year 246 people died, during the same period last year 202. It's not just the deaths, it's a lot of people with disabilities, it's a lot of serious health problems. I think that there is a need to discuss the security issue and, above all, to discuss prevention, to agree and find solutions. It is simply not enough to look forward to the continuous lifting of traffic penalties. These matters may have a short-term result. In the last case, when prices for traffic offences were drastically raised from 1.1.2005, it was shown that this system is only possible in two, three months and then the effect is lost. There will be much more to be done here in educating drivers, especially in the relevant legislation and perhaps what is most important: Slovenian roads and, above all, Slovenian construction sites are all before the safe traffic surfaces. I therefore appeal to the National Assembly to support the road safety debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u335	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Probably not in this hall between us, who would hope to claim that traffic safety is good on Slovenian roads, but also good. As regards the proposal, Comrade Mag. Saivica, it would be worth studying, but we are of the opinion that in the debate we would have had in the National Assembly, we would not have obtained the results that would be necessary and necessary in order to improve the situation on Slovenian roads. Undoubtedly, what extinguishes in this traffic hysteria on Slovenian roads is the most precious, the human life resulting from the uncultured drivers, perhaps other factors, but it is obvious to the Government or the competent ministries that they have not acted to do anything but to do too badly. It is likely that there will not be an effective instrument in this mandate, either through individual fines, laws and other instruments, unless the culture of drivers, road users, is improved. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! If anything, it is also our duty to point out, over and over again, the critical aspects of which we are informed, which is or are the result of serious traffic accidents when dealing with individual legislation, the laws that we are considering in the National Assembly. These are, as we know, speed exceeding, unadjusted speed to road conditions, alcohol and, of course, many other factors that affect the deterioration of safety and require the most precious of human lives. First, let us let each of us be cultural drivers, and we will be able to contribute to greater security by doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u336	Thank you very much. I reopen applications for explanations of vote on my behalf. Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u337	Thank you, Madam President. I will, of course, support this proposal, there is a widespread debate on it, and it would be too late if it were one year ago, not tomorrow. The fact that the National Assembly, as we hear it, will not help if we discuss this - this is demagogy, please! Who, if not the National Assembly?Oh, my God! This National Assembly may vote that tomorrow’s trucks are on the railway, as Austria does when we like to follow the country next door. And this National Assembly can also accept the repeal of the law that it has supplemented, increased the basic pressure for truckers and reduced penalties, and fewer casualties. Here, three suggestions I've already made right now, this moment. You accept anomalies and accept such things that cause even greater mortality. Do you know that we die a year for a class of children? For one class of kids on the road! And what I hear from my colleague's mouth is that there's no need for a debate, because it's not going to be a major solution, and that's the first-class bullshit I've ever heard! I'm sorry, my friend Marinic. You really shot a goat here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u339	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support this proposal because it seems to me that we are looking at these 246 dead too loosely and too much by the way this year. You'd probably sign a petition for this to be discussed and they can't. The fact that we cannot help to improve the situation in the National Assembly is indeed foolish — well! However, the National Assembly has legislation in its hands, and with a number of legislative changes, it can help people to behave differently on the road. We have also started something with a resolution on traffic safety, but we have not actually looked at what was going on. Only by raising the penalty, just skillfully, of course we won't achieve that. But it is true that this government thinks that everything can be arranged by force, by punishment, by threats, by prohibitions. Of course, I have to remind myself again of the famous tobacco law, which has also been passed just like that, with the threat, with the ban, with the penalties, and then we will see what happens. And now we see what's going on. More and more patients are on the upper respiratory tract. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's one of those things. [[...]] "Ceterum ceuseo" would say, if Mr Bručan were still here, he went out and you who are so joyfully pressing these buttons "against" and I understand "omnia, omnia animalia post coitum triste sun" - have a good time.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac - he is not here, Mr Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u341	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me also recall in my name what was actually the proposal of the fellow Member of the Magi. Sajovica asked Minister Dragutin Matey what activities were carried out in the Ministry to ensure greater road safety. And what some people in general now see, I can also agree with this, but it was not a proposal from a fellow Member in this respect, but that the Minister should specifically state what measures have been taken to ensure that road safety is improved. And I say that it is certainly the Members and Members of the National Assembly who were the ones who were able to draw up or co-form the final texts of those bills relating to the provision of greater security. There's quite a few of them so I don't tax them. It should be recalled, however, that Minister Mate also raised a question yesterday. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] widely replied that the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of Transport and perhaps in cooperation with which the other ministry, however, carried out many actions that would in some way provide greater security. [[...]] Once again, I stress - and thus I conclude - that our drivers depend most on the culture of our drivers, what it is and what security will be on Slovenian roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u343	Thank you very much. I would not have answered, my dear fellows and colleagues, but if I really did not understand that politics has made us a limit between not talking about human lives, not talking about how we and the Ministry, with the Government, Members and Members will solve the problem of road deaths, the problems we have. No, it doesn't matter our soul, our heart, here we should be united - no, politics! If Barovic says, "Yes, I will support Mr Saiovic's proposal, I will," he will say, a position that considers me an opposition: "No, because Barovic said or because Saiovic said. "Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have been driving to Ljubljana every day for 30 years, and that is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen, which no one wants to hear. And if I count and drive a truck, a truck, a truck, a truck, a passenger car, a passenger car, a truck, a truck, a truck, a passenger car, a passenger car - destroy roads, work riots, cause accidents, and we suggest, let's talk, devil, ladies and gentlemen, please, let's have one session, let's have one session, let's have one stop, let's save this traffic regime so that the lives of young people stay. No! No! Because Barovic said this because he is in the Slovenian National Party - not: because he is the opposition. But if that's how you look at traffic, look at it like that! You know, God forbid, I wish everyone a happy ride for the rest of our lives. We're all in the car every day. Remember that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. There's more sauerkraut. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u345	Thank you very much. See, if people are dying every month more, then there is no doubt that measures, legislation and roads in the Republic of Slovenia are not okay, especially because there are experiences from some European countries because they have done more in this area, different. And that's what we need to talk about and, if so, where they're adopting laws, where they're charging repressive organs and where they're taking money for roads. There is a lot to do in Slovenia on the roads, there is a lot to be done in the auto schools, and there is a lot to be added to make preventive and curative measures of repressive authorities more effective. And if we want to solve the problem, then we need to talk about it, look into his eyes, not sweep it under the rug. That is why I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, I called you, but you weren't in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u347	Thank you for your word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u348	Because I'm going to be consistent, I'm going to open another circle. Check-in is on. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u349	Thank you for your word. I must say that I myself will support the proposal of my colleague Saiovic. I'm one of those people who drives on Slovenian highways every day, but I don't understand things, really don't: you refuse to talk about security. 156 lives of young, old, foreign, ours, theirs died on these roads. There's something we need to do. If not anyone, this National Assembly may do so together with the competent Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport. Let's find a solution together. There's been a lot of car accidents. Don't talk to me about driving culture. The culture of driving depends on the individual. We have a bunch of foreigners on the road we can't influence, their driving culture, you can't believe it. I drive every day and I see trucks. Measures must be taken, and if ministers and coalitions are not prepared for 156 lives to date to adopt constructive proposals either on the one hand or on the other, when it comes to human life, it does not matter which side they are on, only if they are well-intentioned, then we have a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem! Some of those 156 were your constituents, including ours. Please, let's do something for them. Let's find some action. Roads are more dangerous every day anyway. Why are they more dangerous? Because we don't talk, and raising our sentence in this case is not the solution. If it were a solution, it would also be a solution to pedophilia, not a double! [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. Zagorac. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. There are 53 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 36. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to the question of Mr Sreč Friends on the strategy of the Ministry for the Reduction of Poverty." On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I know it's late, but that's the only way we can hear each other. When we talked about this problem, we were four in this room, [[Mrs. Potter, is there anything else?]] Four and two ministers and one minister. In the Republic of Slovenia we have great economic growth, as the Government says. Prime Minister Janša said that 10% of the people, and this on Monday, live on the brink of poverty. Do you know how many people that is? Calculate, you'll see, that's a huge number. And, of course, the Minister said that 42% of people would be on the brink of poverty if there were no social transfers. So, these are reliable data that no one has denied. We have excellent economic growth, we do not allow workers to be involved in the profits they have generated - interestingly, food is being auctioned, trade unions are alerted to demands, we have most of the working relationships that are temporarily concluded, so we are also causing poverty by not allowing young people to create new added value by buying apartments or by obtaining credit for any other good. And of course, if we look at Article 2 of the Constitution, which says that we are a social state - that's not true either. We can quickly come to illogical conclusions. However, the budget deficit is dealt with in an interesting way. 1% says the president, not one percent, but 0.4 in the coming year, there will be deficits in the budget. Of course, we will sell, as I said before, Slovenian railways, Luka Koper, Slovenian shipowner, banks, lottery Slovenia and so on, quickly reach that one percent. Poverty remains an open question. Nobody wants to hear that. The fact is, we are a social state, so says Article 2. If we're a social state, then let's talk about poverty. The unions have made four demands, in fact there will be a public protest, and I will go to this public protest myself. And, look, I also gave Mr President of the National Assembly the initiative on September 12th to hold this debate, and it came across a deaf ear, and it also came across a deaf ear with the President of the Government. On 19 October, we also addressed the same request to the President of the country, and it is probably not going to be better there, because it is more focused on Darfur and the Gypsies for which we give a million euros a month to protect. Please let us talk about this. We have attributes, as I said before, a great deal of economic growth, which we can also share through created profits and essentially create new added value in the lowest social strata and help with this. If you make this debate possible, this will also happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u352	Thank you very much. I'm opening applications for my own opinion. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u353	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The first part that saves people's lives has been rejected. Come on, please, back the other one up. We're talking about poverty. Even 1% of poverty in this country would be critical, and it should be discussed. Someone from the coalition said, we got 11%. It's too much, believe me, it's too much. Let's talk about it. Please press the "yes" button and let's talk about poverty. I believe that of the three K's, this third K's, which is called the Collegiate, who receives the 15,000 Euro Prize for being a supervisor in Telekom, does not feel poverty, he can afford pâté! Neither do any of us in this congregation feel poverty. We can afford milk if we do not have credits, including pâté, ladies and gentlemen. But 11% of the people in this country feel this poverty. He can't have pasta. He can't have fresh bread. And once again, it doesn't matter how many people throw bread into a bagon, it's important how many people are looking for bread from a bagon. And in this case, we're talking 11%. If we talked about half a percent, it would be critical, we're talking about 11%. I respectfully ask you to support this proposal to say that we will reduce this 11% to a minimum of 5, if not zero. This must be the idea and advantage of every government. If you don't support this now, I'll tell you: Shame on you, you're not worthy of a new term! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u354	Mr. Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Before, I ran out of time to say what I mean now. See the government party DeSUS has further exacerbated life in essentially the poorest layers when we withdrew from the procedure the law on the coordination of social transfers in households. This law provided that once a year prices expressed in the increase in retail sales prices in that basket of living expenses would be harmonised two years ago. This means that the poorest layers, those who do not reach the social minimum, had the opportunity to get something from the country. We stopped that, too. And if we are talking about surpluses such as the government boasts that we have great economic growth, then it will not be a problem to meet the demands of trade unions. See, unions require an increase in basic wages by 3.5% in 2007 and wage coordination for this year's inflation in February 2008, not until August. The government is planning to do it in August. Of course, that would pay you a half-year's salary for an agreed raise. And wage increases due to increased productivity, even here, are not actually entitled to share profits. Changes in the payment system are also necessary. If we're talking about what the unions are warning us about, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and the warnings of the unions are clear, then we can fix this in such a way that we invite them to talk again and to open this social debate once again, which will also help those who do not have bread today. [[...]] You know, games in this theater, in the National Assembly, that's enough. Let's give people some more bread, if you want to be in power again, then follow this Roman saying. If [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You will not. Your fate is already known. [[...]] I believe there are deaf ears, you laugh, I believe it's funny for some, so there's no point in talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Not even Mrs. No. [[...]] Once again, the application is under way. Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u357	Thank you. I'm not, I'd really say it's not a bad time, look, because we have such an advantage, I think, three hours almost. We're talking about serious things. I'm glad it's in the "Congratulations" newspaper, although I'm sad to congratulate ourselves... Slovenia for second place in the e-portal in Europe". That's great. "Congratulations to Slovenia, the President of Europe, who will be the first of the new members." That's great. "Congratulations to Slovenia for adopting the euro first." That's great. Congratulations to Slovenia. We're really great. But we're a little less beautiful to our own people. We're defending inflation. That's right. The introduction of the euro did not cause inflation, the inflation is caused by traders. We all know that. Because they don't change margins. They make a lot of money. But poverty is on this account. And why are we afraid to talk about poverty? I know why. Because of the Ministry of the Economy, I am sorry that they are not here, they are closing and leading economic policy in their own way. Because we have no regulated energy, no economic and no other policy. And it's afraid of you, colleagues and colleagues to talk about poverty. Because poverty arises when a person is unemployed, even if he earns 300 euros. Poverty comes from there. Of course, it's hard for you to talk about her. Why? Let us talk about poverty, find out, respected colleagues and colleagues, the reasons for this poverty and help each other together. It's easy to talk. We'll close the mine in Zasavje. There are already, now there will be Trbovlje, two thousand people will be on the road, you will say, you have five million euros and behave. Yeah, that's easy to say, but you have to work, not "talat" money. Poverty is the result of such acts; poverty is not the result of innocence. Let's talk about this, frankly, each one of our own, and I will also respect your opinion, colleagues and colleagues from the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgainer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u359	Thank you so much for saying that. You know, I'm already a couple of meetings on the working body, we're talking about, of course, the working body of the National Assembly, which touches on this issue, the work, the family, the social policy and the disabled, I've already missed the Minister a few meetings. Because I believe the Minister is willing to listen to such current problems in our country. But unfortunately, I don't know if, after the dictatorship, the Minister is away from participating in the debates. And I fear that this time too it is just that the Minister simply cannot participate in this kind of debate. However, I believe, and so it was evident in some of the topics that we have opened up in the framework of the working body, and later in the National Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the specific Ministry of Labour does not have an adequate strategy in the area of poverty. My friend Zagorac said 10% of people live below the poverty line before. That's not true. 12% was in May 2006. This percentage is rising, increasing. This is statistics run by international organisations. 45% of our citizens and citizens depend on different social transfers. And do you know where we came from with the law on the coordination of social transfers to households? This is a very restrictive marriage. He hit people so hard that even the government coalition party DeSUS suggested that the government withdraw this law now because people are injured, but these are the people who get 500 euros a month or they don't get it. Please support, because it is nothing else, we would like to discuss whether we still deserve to be a social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u360	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Dear Members! The members of the Committee on Internal Policy inform you that the meeting of the Committee is immediately after the end of the sitting in room 212. Good night!
