ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. Dear colleagues. I begin the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and also inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Mr Samo Bevk - from 14:00 on, Mr Rudolf Moge - from 12:00 on, Mrs Breda Pečan - from 13:00 on and 30 minutes on, mag. Anton Rop and Dr Mitja Slavinec and Mr Kristian Janc - from 2 p.m. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 10. Period, that's on the third defensive proposal for a law on spatial planning. I inform you that we have 4 hours and 50 minutes of discussion scheduled for this point. The draft law was prepared for third reading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I also give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Members and Members of Parliament. Allow me to present briefly the content of the new proposal for the Spatial Planning Act, although we have already presented some important solutions in previous procedures. I am confident that the Spatial Planning Act, which I hope will be adopted today, will provide the Republic of Slovenia with a good, modern and European law-compliant law that will allow both municipalities and the state, as well as regions or landscapes, to draw up, within a reasonable period of time and also within acceptable means, such spatial documents that will allow for coherent spatial, economic, development, and which will very clearly and unequivocally lay down rules of conduct in the space and the conditions for interference in the space on the ground. With the proposed law, we wanted to achieve the following essential solutions, which were further specified in the context of the second reading and the amendments adopted. The main purpose of the proposed law is to remedy the weaknesses and certain shortcomings identified in the implementation of the applicable law on the regulation of space in that part relating to spatial planning, while at the same time seeking to upgrade and clarify the area of building land equipment, which is closely linked to spatial planning. In doing so, our main guide was that both the content of spatial acts and the procedures for their preparation should be streamlined as much as possible, thereby reducing the time needed to realize the individual investors' intentions. In the current ZUREP, there were, in particular, those shortcomings relating to the applicable system of spatial acts, then to their content, which do not provide quality and unambiguous spatial solutions. The law in force showed a vague relationship between the individual spatial acts, then also in the procedures for their preparation and adoption, it was found that in several places they were irrational and, above all, they were too long-lasting. This is particularly the case in the assessment of their environmental suitability. That is why, with the proposed law, we have resolved our weaknesses and shortcomings by focusing spatial planning on the integrity of solutions and also the uniformity of spatial acts. For only comprehensive planning means a break with too often the current practice, when spatial planning follows land ownership and also the partial interests of individual investors. For example, if I mention one of the partiality of spatial planning, it is in the fact that at national level it has led to the conduct of the procedures for the preparation of national location plans for each spatial arrangement separately. This meant a large number of very long-term procedures, which were sometimes inconsistent. The law provides, however, that in the framework of State spatial plans a number of spatial arrangements of State importance can be planned at the same time in a specific area. This will ensure their comprehensive treatment, as well as mutual coordination and public treatment under one single procedure. This also means that, at the national level, at the national level, spatial arrangements will be designed to be so precise that the arrangements will be properly placed in the space, while more detailed planning will be left to investors in the context of the preparation of project documentation. This is also one of the major differences from the current national location plans, which, due to their similarity, already have the nature of projects. If I briefly touch the municipal level, there was much debate in the National Assembly three weeks ago. The new law provides for a single mandatory spatial act, which is a municipal spatial plan. It will be prepared and accepted as a single document that will address the spatial issue of the municipality in a comprehensive manner, while at the same time providing a strategic and implementation space act, as well as a basis for the preparation of projects to obtain a building permit. The law will also give the municipality an opportunity, if it deems it necessary, to adopt the strategic part of the spatial plan as a stand-alone spatial act, and for individual spatial arrangements it will also be able to draw up detailed spatial plans. I would also like to touch on the process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. It is specifically regulated in this law by being fully involved in the preparation of spatial plans. In doing so, we also fully assume the requirements, as laid down by the European legal order and also the essential solutions contained in the current environmental law, of course, we rationalise them where we believe that this is possible. This means, in particular, that time limits are reduced in the process of a comprehensive assessment or the appropriateness of an environmental report audited by the Ministry without its prior revision. This will require time to assess the impact of the implementation of spatial acts on the environment and, indirectly, will reduce the overall procedure for the preparation of spatial acts. The proposed law also regulates more clearly and more specifically than the current law the procedure for coordinating spatial acts with the guidelines of spatial regulators, namely different ministries, public authorities and public service providers. We also place great emphasis in the law on the establishment, management and maintenance of the spatial information system, which we are already systematically establishing at the Ministry, including other institutions for the regulation of space at national level. Gradually, spatial data of municipalities will also be included in this system. We have made new arrangements in the law for the equipping of building lands and municipal contributions, which has so far been largely left to the law. There was a lot of discussion about this at the last meeting of the National Assembly. We have given special attention to the transitional and final provisions of the law, where the transition to new spatial acts is also very clearly regulated. Thus, when the law is in force, all existing spatial acts of the State and the municipalities will continue to apply and will be gradually replaced by new ones. It is also regulated to complete the procedures already in place for the preparation of individual spatial acts, so that there will be no delays or even a return to the initial stage due to the transition to a new legal regime. There was a lot of debate and questions about this at the last meeting. The municipalities that are already preparing spatial acts, as provided for by the applicable law, will not reject anything they have already prepared in relation to these acts, and the procedures will continue where the implementation of the new law will take place. This is, in our opinion, the optimal solution. The law does not provide for any moratoriums, but also allows municipalities to change and supplement existing municipal spatial plans for two years after its adoption. So far, the current ZUREP has not allowed this. According to our assessment, in the vast majority of the congregation, the new municipal acts will be prepared within a period of less than two years. Following the adoption of the law, it will first be necessary to issue the required regulations. These regulations are so in intensive preparation at the Ministry and will go immediately after the adoption of the law into a broader professional and inter-departmental treatment, so that they will be adopted even sooner than the statutory deadline. Finally, I would like to refer to some of the observations or opinions of the section of the professional public that some societies and educational institutions have addressed in writing to the various bodies of the Republic of Slovenia and their representatives during the last week. I cannot confirm these observations and calls because I think they are unfounded, but above all they are without concrete justification. The adoption of the Spatial Planning Act is essential in order to enable the municipalities to prepare and adopt their basic spatial acts and also to implement their development projects, as this is not working out for the municipalities under the current provisions. And a new law is needed, honourable Members and Members. The eloquent evidence is a state in which so far no congregation has been able to adopt their spatial strategy and the spatial order of the congregation, as provided for by the law in force, and which has been in force for more than four years. On the contrary, most Slovenian municipalities have already begun to prepare these acts under the applicable law, but most of them have not come longer than preparatory works or procedures. At the Ministry, we are also closely monitoring the implementation of the current law as part of the regular work, and the very experience with it has led us to decide that the law needs to be amended. I would also like to reject the claim that there was no broad public debate on the law. Throughout the drafting of the law, we have worked very transparently to discuss and constructively cooperate in the drafting of the legislative text, which was also published in all stages of the procedure on the Ministry's websites, and have been all through the invited experts, the professional public and others interested. In particular, cooperation with the congregations was intense, and cooperation with that part of the profession, which has shown interest in these changes, has been constructive. Dear Members and Members! On the basis of this, I propose that, after the consideration of some of the amendments, you should fully support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. Mr Rudolf Petan will give the views of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have a final decision ahead of us, the third reading of the Spatial Planning Act. This is an extremely important law, an extremely important substance. It must be said that all local communities, all municipalities, do not even have all the spatial acts, say they do not have all the elements for spatial planning. At the same time, it must also be stressed that this was not always their fault, but the reasons are much more complex. This is a matter that is the basis of planning and development in local communities, says the municipalities. This means that there is also a great deal of interest in this area. At the same time, it also includes many professions from different fields and the harmonisation of all these interests is certainly a difficult and complex task. The current situation is extremely complex and difficult. At times, congregations have been in a situation where they have simply not found a way out, for the legislation has been so complicated, according to certain interpretations, that local communities have been in an extremely difficult or hopeless situation. This is because of the interpretation of individual parts of the current legislation or because of the approach it was. It must be said that spatial planning is not an easy task, that planning must be comprehensive, from land to final regulation, to the final appearance of an area which must be consistent with the characteristics of the area. Many have made the demands of so - called guardians of the environment difficult, perhaps even too much, even though we talked about the profession. The basic approach, the basic principle of why a new law on spatial planning was needed, is the principle of simplification. There is another problem here when a simplification of the procedure occurs, or for a sense of how much longer the profession is represented here. And this is the basic dilemma that arose in this marriage. I must admit that, within the framework of the parliamentary group and as the chairman of the committee, we have had and have had many meetings with individual expert groups representing each of their areas, which is perfectly normal. In doing so, I would like to point out that in the SDS Group, we have always supported that the first debate has also taken place, this is a kind of public decomposition, a presentation of this law, where Members and Members from all angles have been able to address positions and problems. And the final phase was always the same. The current way of preparing spatial acts is extremely complicated and things need to be simplified. And the approach to this law was to simplify procedures and make local communities significantly easier to access these spatial acts. The municipalities expect this simplification. There have also been several meetings of mayors and directors of municipal administrations with the Ministry, and the President of the Government himself has been involved in this presentation and clarification of the basic approach of this law. We had a great task ahead of us, and we are now in the conclusion of this in the third reading, that this procedure should be properly regulated, that it will still be professional enough and that it will not be too complicated. In the third reading itself, solutions were still implemented that were not sufficiently resolved or sufficiently clarified in the previous procedure. Since we believe in the SDS that the current text is appropriate and will meet the basic requirement, this is a simplification of procedures, we support such a text. At the same time, I would like to point out that this is only the first part of the task. In front of us is now the second part of the construction law, which will upgrade, which will only supplement the text of the spatial planning law. This text, which we are going to adopt today, will be the basis from which we can say, a twin of this law, this is the building law. In the SDS Group, we believe that the text is appropriate, that it is good and that it will meet the basic expectations of local communities, so we will support it in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Janko Weber will give his position to the SD Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the Law on Spatial Planning, we have been actively involved in the general debate, but we have also listened to the professional public, who in writing warned all parliamentary groups that it is necessary to take more time in this law before we can finally design it and adopt it. Therefore, in the agenda of this meeting itself, we have proposed the withdrawal of this item from the agenda, allowing, in fact, the professional public and all others who want to actively engage in the drafting of the best spatial planning law, to truly agree on solutions that should lead to these objectives, as the Minister repeatedly repeats and underlines: that the law should be effective, simple and short-circuited and that investments should run as quickly as possible. It was never clear from the text of the law why such changes to the existing law on the regulation of space were necessary, because this law on the regulation of space was also created in a package with the building law, and at that time we had a comprehensive review of the final procedure or the final measures necessary to enable you to interfere in the space and then to build. At this point, we are only familiar with the text or content of the spatial planning law. What will be the content of the building law, what will be the content of the sub-legislative acts; it is not sufficiently defined in the spatial planning law and, of course, we are afraid that there will be a lot of difficulties in implementing this law that we are adopting today. Our position has also been that it has been all the time that it is more appropriate to clear the text of the law on the regulation of space at those points where, in practice, it has been shown that some procedures may be under-defined or under-effective, or perhaps even somewhat too long. Unfortunately, these warnings have also not been taken into account and, at the time of adoption, the implementation of this law will surely meet with many more strangers than clear facts as to how the spatial procedure should proceed, of course, compared to, for example, complementing the law on space regulation. We must be aware that the Ministry's arguments that the current law on the regulation of space is bad because it has proved to be in its implementation and, on the other hand, when we look at how many municipalities have led the procedures to this stage in order to bring these acts into force, we find that, in fact, there are very few acts prepared for this stage under the law on the regulation of premises, so that we can now work in practice already under this law. However, the essential difference between this law and the law on the regulation of space is that the law on the regulation of space gives a significantly greater emphasis to the professional foundations and prepares materials for you to then, in the final stage, produce both graphic material and a textual part of spatial acts based on professional origins. The Spatial Planning Act has taken a different path. The municipality first proposes something and later tries to obtain guidance from the relevant co-operators on whether what it has proposed is good or not. And there will also be the greatest deviations from how quickly a new law can be adopted. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that, in fact, it is fortunate that this law opens and gives the possibility to amend existing spatial acts during this transitional period, so that some of the necessary investments can be placed in space and the process of adopting new legislation will be significantly longer due to the new law than it would be under the Space Regulation Act, because it is not expected that new spatial acts in all municipalities will occur in a year or two. In addition, one very open question is: How will the congregations approach the new spatial acts under this new law? Whether they will join alone as a municipality, whether they will join together with the other municipalities as a region or join together with the country as a country, region and municipalities, and, last but not least, that a specific municipality will be subject to a State spatial act. This is a significant deviation from the current understanding of space regulation, since we have always claimed that the congregation is a vehicle for development and the congregation is the one planning interventions into space. By this law, this role is changing and, in fact, the state will have much more power than the municipalities. And as a result, there is a very high risk that we will no longer talk about the fact that this is still a priority and basic task of the municipalities, but that spatial planning will largely depend on the ministry, on the minister, on the current ruling option, and not least on the referee or employee of the Ministry, who will have very high powers when deciding whether or not to act properly. These are very important questions because we do not want to come to Slovenia in a situation where we find that some discretionary right is about how we will intervene into a space reduced to an employee at the Ministry of the Environment, but not to, say, the municipal council, which is the one who is supposed to make the majority of the votes that may appear or are presented in the space as a dilemma. Here I think that the final adoption of these acts will indeed raise very large questions and difficulties in implementing and planning interventions into space. We believe that this decision is also questionable because, with the Law on the regulation of space, the spatial development strategy, which was also adopted in the National Assembly, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, we have adopted a new act, in a new independent country, and we are repealing and starting to write again a new text of the new strategies. This is not good and I think that such an understanding that each government is planning its understanding of spatial planning in space is not productive and will, to a large extent, encourage and delay everything. With regard to the support of this law, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that it is difficult to give support to a law that, in fact, the professional public has not been able to give all its comments and knowledge in this area, and we estimate that it is mainly a matter of narrow political material and even closer consideration to the professional public. In our view, the responsibility for such a law should be borne by the majority, which will also support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mag. Borut Saiovic will give the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A nice welcome to the Minister with his associates! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are aware of the exceptional importance of the area of space regulation regulated by the proposed Spatial Planning Act. That is why we took this cooperation very seriously and responsibly in the legislative process and we had already requested members of the LDS to hold general discussions on the principles and main solutions of the new law. Unfortunately, I also have to repeat today's assessment that the proposal for a spatial planning law, in our humble opinion, is conceptually somewhat flawed. It would be significantly better if the Ministry of Environment and Space devoted itself to providing assistance to municipalities in the preparation of spatial acts to be drawn up in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning. That is why we have also proposed that the National Assembly conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and that the Ministry of Environment and Space should introduce in the urgent legislative procedure a new law on the regulation of premises containing some of the most urgent changes to the law in force. Today and at this stage of the legislative process, it is no longer reasonable to repeat the substantive reasons behind our positions and the well-intentioned but political proposals. However, I must say that the competent ministry, as a motioner, unfortunately, did not take them into account. Of course, we are disappointed, not surprised. The essence of our disappointment is that this law is not at all a matter of political differences between the parties or between the ruling coalition and the opposition, but rather a matter of evident, professional and organizational questions as to how best to settle our common space. It is totally unacceptable that the applicant did not wish to listen to the opinions and views of the profession, which has always opposed a large part of these solutions. Therefore, the proposaler has bypassed the unknown reasons for us, so allow me to sum up the main findings from the common position of the institutions, educational institutions, businesses, chambers and societies in the area of space regulation, despite the likelihood that anyone will present or refer to the last position of the profession in today's debate. Their opposition is based primarily on the following. The current law on space regulation is a statutory law and is only valid for a short period of time, i.e. from 1 January 2003, and it is premature to talk about the essential weaknesses of the law, which in practice, as we have heard many times today, could not be enforced at all. In particular, without systematically prepared, expert evaluations. Another very important point is that the proposed law is not prepared as a statutory law on the basis of European comparable spatial legislation and European spatial planning practice, taking into account the relevant Slovenian needs, because space regulation does not play an appropriate leadership and coordination role against individual sectors and sectors. The three related bills, the Spatial Planning Act, the Construction of Buildings Act and the important Act on Architecture and Engineering, are currently at different stages of preparation and adoption. The legislative texts are mutually and procedurally uncoordinated, adequately open and broad public debate, particularly at the level of the professional and civil professional society. Monitoring the situation and gravity of the space is now duly defined by the applicable law on space regulation. This is not properly regulated in the draft law and is, as is the case with the policies adopted to regulate the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the Strategy for the Regulation of the Presence of the Republic of Slovenia. As set out in the current law, an important part of the field of space regulation in Europe in the framework of international projects is mainly concerned with establishing and implementing a common methodology for demonstrating conditions and difficulties in space. All of this, in our view, provides the appropriate starting points for the establishment of spatial development policies, measures, the assessment of their adequacy and, last but not least, the possibility of identifying then, at the final stage of the corresponding responsibility. The bill gives the competent ministry a great deal of weight and responsibility in spatial planning procedures. The Ministry of Environment and Space, for example, after Article 48 of the bill, is getting guidelines for the municipal spatial plan, which is in practice likely to mean the extension of the procedures and represents the takeover of the work that the municipalities are likely to be in charge of and for which they are also competent after the constitution. Furthermore, the proposal provides that the State Spatial Plans, as a rule designed for the region on a cadastral basis, will be prepared as a direct basis for projects to obtain a building permit, demonstrating that the drafter of the law, despite a number of State plans already drawn up in the country, does not know the spatial planning problem on the ground in practice and, above all, underestimates the importance of substantive coordination on decisions on further spatial development. There is also the possibility that this underestimation will lead to a national selection of interventions which, in view of the importance, will have different possibilities for a successful, final placement into space and then also for a final successful execution. The current building law has properly regulated licensing, which ensures professionalism and accountability in the field of law-making. The proposal for the Act on Architecture and Engineering, however, removes the license for spatial planning, which we think is less appropriate in the light of the situation. Furthermore, the proposal introduces a re-introduction of the requirement that an equipped building site is required for the start of the construction of the buildings and at the same time provides that the equipment of the building land is provided by local communities which accept the equipment programmes for this purpose. However, these programmes are not an instrument for the realisation of new spatial arrangements, but are, in particular, an expert basis for the assessment of the municipal contribution to the already existing municipal equipment. The draft law does not fully address land management and land-building. First, it is necessary to establish instruments of active land policy and to establish mechanisms for their implementation, and then, as part of the comprehensive treatment of systemic financing of municipal activities, to regulate the issue of municipal contribution, so that it will not fully burden investors who are exposed and essentially subordinate and dependent to this role. The Systemic Method of Financing requires a comprehensive treatment of all aspects of financing municipal activities and should not be partially addressed in different laws. The adoption of these laws this year is also inappropriate for the following reasons. Under the current legislation, municipalities are currently finalising the preparation of the necessary new spatial acts, many of them for the first time for a single municipal development area. The introduction of new solutions will affect a lot of confusion in practice and quality and the conditions for regulating space in Slovenia. Unforeseeable consequences in practice and an absolute extension of the deadlines for the final implementation of the laws are unfortunately not yet prepared. The municipalities and statistical and development regions shall prepare strategic and implementing spatial acts to co-finance projects by the European Union in the financial perspective 2007-2013. These legislative changes may constitute an obstacle to the continuation of these procedures. Last but not least, the change in all concepts and the invention of new concepts in the marriage text thus ensured that the regulation of space in Slovenia will continue to apply to that public area, which represents the biggest development obstacle at the level of individual and society. At the end of the common position, the signatories note that the proposed legislation does not achieve a high-quality level of legislation in force, comparable at the professional level to the European framework. Furthermore, the proposal for a Spatial Planning Act does not address the shortcomings of existing legislation, which could be tackled by relatively small interventions into existing legislation. For all these reasons, the signatories propose to suspend the procedure for the adoption of the three laws and to prepare an appropriate legal solution for a transitional period in which new spatial acts of the municipalities can be produced in accordance with the legislation in force and in which the legislation in force will also be duly corrected, improved and supplemented. At the same time, they expect the Ministry of Environment and Space to set up an appropriate reference working group to draw up good professional and coherent legislative proposals and to carry out appropriate coordination of these legislative texts. Under this text, which I presented in 10 points and with which our Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia fully agrees, no one or anyone has signed it. They signed: President of the Association of Urbanists and Spatial Planners of Slovenia, President of the Association of Landscape Architects of Slovenia, Dean of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana, Head of the Department of Spatial Planning of the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy of the University of Ljubljana and the Institute of Municipal Economy, Head of the Department of Geodesy of the Faculty of Construction of the University of Ljubljana, Head of the Department of Landscape Architecture of the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Ljubljana, President of the Association of Geodesy of Slovenia and Director of the Urban Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. What do you say at the end? Opinions written down, and above all names on important, responsible, key functions in Slovenian spatial planning are undoubtedly of great weight. Therefore, honourable fellow Members, honourable Members of the ruling coalition, it is surprising in these matters, which is not a common practice in Slovenia, quite uniform and clear. The government does not take into account the opinion of the profession, so the final decision on the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning will be yours. However, it would be good for you to be aware of the great responsibilities you are taking when voting. In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will vote against the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning, because on questionable foundations a building can in practice, despite a good, excellent upgrade, a bad building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Colleague Drago Koren, following the presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greeting, good day to the Minister with his co-workers, Members, Members of Parliament and all those who accompany this meeting! Members of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party are committed to increasing the efficiency of the state administration, shortening and simplifying administrative procedures and reducing the bureaucracy of the state administration. We try to pursue such goals in the adoption of all laws. There is no exception to the Spatial Planning Act. The drafters of this law claim that these objectives are one of the most important objectives that the law seeks to achieve. However, the proposal for a Spatial Planning Act also needs to be assessed by whether the proposed provisions give due consideration to a space of exceptional importance, since the possibilities in the space are limited. On these and other questions, the current law on space regulation provided answers that proved incomplete or inappropriate in implementation. The proposer shall ensure that, with the exception of the area relating to spatial planning, the Space Regulation Act provides for more appropriate spatial acts and regulates the relationship between them. The proposal also promises to shorten the procedures for their reception and establishment of spatial records. The special chapter also regulates the area of equipping buildings and the municipal contribution. In the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group in the draft law, we welcome and support all those provisions that are currently shortening the procedures for the preparation and adoption of spatial acts. Lawmakers argue that the bill has received a number of coordinations both within the profession and from the public concerned. At the first reading of the law here in the National Assembly, a general discussion was held. The municipalities also actively participated in the drafting of the law and in many presentations in Slovenia expressed great support for the proposed law. The majority opinion of the municipalities was that these changes were necessary, since the preparation of spatial acts under the applicable law was too long, too long and too expensive. Because of all this, we were not surprised to receive a letter from representatives of institutions, educational institutions, businesses, chambers and associations in the field of space regulation in the New Slovenia Group just before the third hearing. We wonder why these institutions did not express their concerns earlier. Only the company of landscape architects had previously come forward and expressed its concerns about the proposed law. There was a lot of talk at the previous meeting of the National Assembly on the third development axis. At that meeting, I also asked Minister Podobnik and Bozic whether the beginning of the road to Velenje and to Koriška is indeed moving away from what was previously envisaged for four years. It was clear from the reply and from subsequent explanations at the meeting of the mayors of Koroška and Savinja-Shales region with the ministers that, under the current legislation, it was not possible to get the road into the room faster and prepare the necessary documentation, but that period would be severely reduced by the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act. Since I come from this area alone, I must say that if not for another reason, I must support this law because of the third development axis. Because the assurance that, on the basis of the law adopted, the power to start work in 2009, is very important to us. The third development axis is only one of the many projects envisaged. With the Resolution on National Development Projects, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted ambitious over 30 projects for the period 2007 to 2023. Spatial legislation must not hinder or impede all these projects. However, all aspects of the proposed law are important not only for the municipalities, regions or countries for which the procedures are changing, but for all those facing investment. If we want to attract investors, it is the least we can do to minimise the burden of long bureaucratic procedures. The same applies to individual investors who, due to the quality of the spatial acts of the municipalities, will be able to meet their expectations in due course. For this period it is known that changes to the building law and certain other laws will also be required. It would be appropriate for the professional public to be involved in the preparation of these laws in a timely manner and to comment. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party, we will support the bill because of the promise to shorten the procedures for the adoption of spatial acts. We trust the proposer that spatial acts, although adopted on the basis of a significantly reduced number of co-operators, will be of adequate quality, which we understand in the Group of Members by providing an appropriate basis for sustainable development, taking into account the optimal exploitation of space opportunities. Members of New Slovenia will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u12	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and viewers, who took the time to listen to us in our consideration of a very important law! Spatial planning is now regulated by the law on space regulation. Certainly, however, the preparation of a new law regulating this area was necessary, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, due to the shortcomings and to the unspecified regulation of the current law. We therefore welcome the law on spatial planning under consideration, which is under consideration today. Let me reiterate that the law in force only entered into force four years ago. Despite the short implementation time, however, many shortcomings of this law have been demonstrated, which in our view is very weak in spatial planning. If we remember the adoption of the law on the regulation of premises, we can find that, at the time of its preparation, the proposer provided good and systematic regulation of this area, which would be in line with the legal framework, and at the same time promises simplification of procedures in the area of the regulation of premises and the acquisition of necessary spatial acts and permits. Unfortunately, practice has shown the opposite. At least those of us who had to deal with the implementation of this law felt that way. In some cases, it can be observed that there are completely inadequate interventions to the space and that conditions and restrictions are even excessive in some other area. This often leads to a spill between investors and raises the issue of equality before the law of all investors. The main indications of the law in force are, in particular, substantively inadequately defined spatial acts at all levels, unclear relations between them, complex procedures and requirements for a whole range of professional grounds, which were often intended for themselves. It is clear that individuals benefit from such a situation, especially those who, due to legal provisions, prepare many, though unnecessary, bases and documents and thus have the means to work or operate them. Even when we consider this law, which we are considering today in the third reading, it is particularly our view that their voice of opposition to changes or to the law is heard in particular. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is necessary to emphasise that certain experts have concerns about the new bill, especially in our view some professional associations such as urbanists' societies, landscape architects and the like. We believe in the parliamentary group that the preparation of the law in question included a profession, several times, in the area of regulating space, architecture and other professional areas. However, it is likely that the simplification of the procedures and the appreciation of the procedures themselves do not like some housing associations in our country. With regard to the content of spatial acts, it would not go into individual problems that arise, as these are well-founded in the introduction of the proposal or the law under consideration. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, under the current law, the municipalities need to prepare new spatial acts by mid-2007. Their preparation, however, is, as already mentioned, linked to high costs. The content of the spatial development strategy of the municipality, for example, is too extensive, contains unnecessary content and therefore extremely expensive, as each study had to be paid separately. The municipalities that have already embarked on the preparation of spatial acts under the applicable law are likely to have more extensive acts than the new law in a worse situation - in other words, they will have a large number of acts, and they will, of course, deduct substantial funds. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law under consideration confers greater powers on those who know their place, who know their advantages, their development opportunities and objectives. In our view, the boundaries between the municipality and the local community regarding the proper management of the premises are sufficiently developed or defined. It is, of course, necessary to have a good overview of the existing state of affairs in order to prepare good spatial acts. Modern information technology can be an important tool to easily analyse and access this data. The adaptation of the relevant information system is necessary, necessary and is welcomed and assessed in the Group of Members that it is well processed in the Act under consideration. Not all municipalities are able to afford this technology, which is very important in the overall treatment of interventions into space, given that they are very different: from a few 100 people, up to a few 100,000. The assessment of the current situation and the identification of shortcomings were, at least in our opinion, a fundamental basis for the proposaler to draw up a new law. The new law offers great expectations, and we only hope that the proposal will be fully realized, including with our help. The proposed law, in our view, well regulates the procedures for the preparation and content of spatial acts. In particular, it is important in terms of drawing European funds from environmental infrastructure, that the proposer has drawn up appropriate arrangements in the form of regional spatial plans. This is necessary because of the smallness of municipalities in Slovenia, which themselves cannot prepare large enough projects that could draw European funds or funds from European calls for proposals. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that the law under consideration will bring a number of positive changes in spatial planning, in particular simplifying it, shortening procedures and thus also reducing spatial planning at local and national level. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the law, together with amendments prepared by the Government and responding to the second reading comments, both by individual groups of Members and by individual Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Dr. Pavel Gantar will give the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, co-workers and co-workers of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, in our third reading of the Spatial Planning Act, we face the consequences of disregarding the warnings we have already given in previous readings and previous discussions. It was said that the public debate was sufficient. However, the initiative to publicise opinions in this national assembly was rejected. It is not surprising, therefore, that many professional associations, universities, universities, already in the last reading, when there is virtually nothing to be fixed, have once again warned about what might happen or will happen if this law, such as it is, with amendments that are still on the table today, is adopted. In this law, in previous cases, I have already said everything I believe must be said. Of course, first of all, the law is conceptually wrong. To break the space regulation system, which we know contains not only spatial planning at the implementation and strategic level, but also other elements of space regulation, from land policy and land operations, fiscal and tax measures, to the administrative dimension of licensing and control inspection dimension and dimension. This system is being broken down; this law governs only spatial planning and part of the building or land policy; the second part remains in the circumscribed ZUREP, the space regulation law. As warned, three laws, the Spatial Planning Act, the Construction of Buildings Act and the Architecture and Engineering Act are adopted, in a timely manner and therefore essential substantively. Once again, and above all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that colleagues and colleagues in all of these two discussions, and also today here in the National Assembly, have really defined and pointed out a number of problems that have been faced not only by spatial planning, but by regulating space in Slovenia for several years, I would say for many years. However, I would also like to point out that the whole range of these problems that we have been alerted to and warned by colleagues are simply problems that this law does not solve. Spatial planning is the vital and most important part of space regulation, but it is far too small for this regulation of space to be effective if there is no innovation or change in land policy, building policy, if we do not have fiscal instruments properly or sufficiently developed, etc. Therefore, this law will not save what the Minister for Environment and Space promises us for the third or fourth time in a row. The law is also impeccable, although in the third reading we would not expect so many amendments proposed by the Government, which proves that the government does not even know what it wants in some solutions. What is, in fact, the main problem of spatial planning, which some laws, as far as I know them in the world, solve a little better, others a little worse, but in some ways it is also, in principle, an insurmountable problem or, rather, difficult to find some balance. As we know, spatial planning is separate from strategic and implementation. And in implementing planning, the key question is whether the implementation plan should be more general and therefore more flexible, or whether it should be more specific and therefore more rigid. Clearly, everyone would like to see him be more general and more flexible. But if we do that, we put investors at greater risk, because with large deposits in investment documentation to obtain, say, a building permit, it can prove too general at the end of the overall plan that it will not be able to obtain this permit. And that balance should be sought. This balance was not sought in this marriage. I am not saying that this balance in ZUREP and the SGI is sufficiently well resolved, it can be complemented and improved. But there is nothing in this balance here, especially because this balance is not sought along with the building law. Hence, what this marriage can bring does not, of course, bring confusion. The comments of the professional public are serious. All we can say about them is that they were written and signed by people who have known them for many years and decades - and I also know them and sometimes have worked with them here - who have been seriously engaged in the space and who really know what the problems are. With regard to the law on regulating the space that we like to criticise or, above all, the Ministry criticises it, I would say that it is complex to have shortcomings, but that these shortcomings can be addressed and corrected. And the criticism of this law is, above all, unjustifiable if it is expressed at the Ministry of Environment and Space, the distinguished Minister. Because you say it in the new suit at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which you basically blocked by law enforcement, then you say that the law is not being enforced. I received notices or information from a number of congregations and was asked what to do, for example, because they were told to stop the procedures for preparing a strategy for the spatial development of municipalities and similar things, because this is pointless because this marriage is bad and it is going to be a new law on the agenda anyway. Today, however, we have heard that nothing that has been done will go to nothing and have been instructed to break up, because they should wait for a new law, in fact very inadequate, not to say misleading. And in this sense, I find the Ministry's conduct not only politically or professionally wrong, but also clearly ethically questionable. One of the issues that draws attention to professional errors and shortcomings is the location plan. The location plan is one instrument that has been exceptionally well received, which works, is known by engineers, investors or, if you want "developers", is known by the municipality, especially by the state administration, all motorways have been built on the basis of these plans, all major energy facilities, hydropower plants, reconstructions and the like; and now we are changing it. Why change something that works relatively well? While we must shake off the illusions so that we can put some big project into space within six months. Practices from other countries will show you that you will spend for a highway, even if a strategic plan, a plan is made, at least three, four to five years or even more. For the transporter in Celovac, if I understand correctly, the placement took more than 12 years. Not to mention other errors, such as article 42a, where all those we like to be systematic in planning and conceptual purity, where this article says that the content of the strategic implementation part of the municipal spatial plan is regulated on the basis of an urban plan. Urbanist plan is the basis for urban planning - please! And why not simply write down the sentence that cities and urban settlements are governed by an urban plan that is part of the municipal spatial plan? Why not give a normal professionally acceptable and clear solution? It's not like that. The Urbanist Plan is the basis for the spatial plan of the congregation, at least in the part of this congregation. And a number of such inconsistencies, which will be difficult to translate, would be found, including respecting the Ministry's valuable attempt to integrate a strategic assessment of environmental impacts mainly through spatial planning. The idea is good, in part it has already been, not partly, but it has already been realized in the previous ZUREP, but this solution, because it wants to be fast and effective, in the Directive on the Evaluation of Certain Programmes, has taken away the issue of the revision of the environmental impact assessment. This audit will be processed, if necessary, by the Ministry itself. I do not believe that the European Union or the Commission will accept such a solution. This solution will probably need to be rectified, which I think is in direct contradiction with the provisions of the relevant directive. In short, the ministry will take a risk here, and I am sure that at least in this work it will have to bring this law back to Parliament sooner or later. That is why we have tabled several amendments in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, without the hope of being accepted. They may allow for some further discussion on this subject, but, however, how forward is, of course, a question. It would be best if, of course, this law were rejected today if representatives of such political public as we have come together here, professions and ministries - this is not a political issue, this is not about the left and right, etc., to see how and what needs to be done in this area. However, this is a matter of science fiction, a thing that has never happened in this mandate at least and will not happen, so of course I can only say that - the bus with this law will drive away, and the collapse is very much on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government. In the Slovenian National Party, we have always had a unified opinion, and when this law is examined, we have drawn on the basic question: do we need a new law if the law in force was passed four years ago? That's an essential question. However, I believe in the good intentions of the preparers that they wanted to improve the law, and this raises the question - why? Or to realize the many interests of individuals? We must believe, as it has been said, that this is not a political issue, that it is a question of spatial legislation and the regulation of spatial legislation intertwining many interests. Interests are in the municipalities, interests are among investors, interests are everywhere. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we understand the Government's wish, supported by the wish of investors, probably supported by the wishes of those municipalities, but I now stress those municipalities whose election year of local elections was opposed by the Slovenian National Party. It is simple to say to the congregation with 500, 600 - which is illegal, but they have been created, now we have over 200, two million Slovenia - citizens, and I need this. And it's nice, isn't it - 213, if we're very specific or 212 - to the congregations, we'd like that. Of course it's easy. And such desires can be fulfilled through such a law. On the other hand, there are congregations that want to, in view of the pressures they have, as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, you'll have another word. It's true, well, they're illegal. That's right, and admit it! 5,000, however, is the number of people appointed to establish the municipality. We have 100 and 300! And these desires are fulfilled through such laws. That's why he's troubled, that's why. Once again, the intention of the government is good, and the intention of those who work honestly is also good to speed up. Not at the expense of such exploitation. This is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and I express it on its behalf. It is a matter of quality solutions. But it's not my idea that you won't think that I think I'm that smart, or the plot of the Slovenian National Party. The issue of a quality solution to this issue, which is not political, I stress, was raised by doctors, scientists, all those involved, not Barovic as a politician or the Slovenian National Party. I'm not setting it up, it's put up by an expert who says why to provide certain rules at all costs, even on the basis of quality solutions, thereby creating a potential threat to space and radically modified spatial legislation. And to support this claim, we know that the law is in practice implemented through the many sub-laws we have. The biggest joke is, you're mayors, and you're dealing with it more, I'm doing as much as I can, and I can and can't believe that the 2003 law is not yet supported in any congregation - show me one congregation! - sub-legislative acts which are in full compliance with the 2003 law. That's a fact. Today, every congregation still regulates under-laws on the basis of the 2003 law and has not regulated them, and today we are changing the law again, which is the logical consequence that the congregations will again rush with changes in the sub-laws to a new, new and new one, and we will have, it is called chaos - because we will no longer know who drinks, who pays. But this is only a warning from the Slovenian National Party. Okay, if the government decides, once again, we believe in its good purpose to have the government do it. However, I do not understand that - I have evidence - the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, which covers more than 152, 154 municipalities, has sent a bunch of amendments, amendments, amendments and so on, and they have not been taken into account. We have the Union of Slovene municipalities, which has sent a bunch, I probably know about the SOS, no proposals for these amendments have been taken into account, seen, in general, anyway. Let's just look at the amendments! Let's just leave it! And let us conclude this story, for the time being, in the new names of spatial documents, acts and so forth, which, in our view, we - once again - say only for the fact that the changes are qualitative, useful, not time-consuming or quantitatively beneficial. And we have also tabled several amendments in the Slovenian National Party in areas where we suspect that everything is not all right. Thus, Article 2 of this Act, because we believe that the government of the local communities will talk about this later, takes the right to a new building; Article 27, which we still believe is inconsistent with Articles 32 and 33 and we have publicly asked for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which we have not received, means that we are talking through each other and that no one cares about anything, and Article 84. We'll talk about them. We have been to the Slovenian National Party and will always be a constructive opposition. If all good is proved in these changes, including through the review and adoption of amendments, of course we will not oppose the law. Just so long and so on, because something is written and spoken by each other and we are politically arguing in the National Assembly, instead of looking at the expertise, the opinions of the Communities, the Communities, the opinions of experts working in this area, of course, such a law makes no sense and no validity and insistence that at least that law in 2003 should be completed in the process of creating sub-laws so that there will be acts in local communities so that we know where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Ambassador William Rezman to present the views of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me start with a few morning ironys at the expense of saying hello. Since some letter has been circulated between Members and Members of Parliament, which complains about the attention of Members and Members regarding viewers and viewers, I have found that most of the speakers first greet the viewers and viewers, so I thought it might not be good for me to step in here, say hello and sit back in the bench. However, this law on spatial planning is likely too much to be ironized, even if it is sometimes not too much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, it has already been said, and I repeat today that we support efforts to amend legislation to support the many good provisions set out in this Act; we also have some concerns that we will try to mention briefly. Since it has been demonstrated so far by the material manufacturer, I think that there is a lot of attention to those comments that have been coming - and therefore an extremely large number of amendments - but also today it has not stopped, so we are assessing that there is no need for all that has been adopted or otherwise implemented to repeat, but it is only right that the concerns are still being expressed. First of all, I should like to express my concern about the procedure, because our leader of the parliamentary group, before the day of the proposed withdrawal, supported this withdrawal for a very simple reason, so that we can see again whether this support can be given to the law or to the proposal of the law without any major concern. We regret that it has not been possible for us to take some more time, because we have always found that the procedures for regulating the space are so long-term, so difficult that some week, two or three, which would mean the departure of the adopted law, would not deprive investors of business and other interests. Perhaps, however, there are other things they could say. I recall that the ZUREP Act, which is now being amended, was announced and accepted by the fanfare of the then leadership, or the proponents, that some had a number of concerns at the time and that those concerns later proved to be entirely justified. Indeed, in the municipalities where we adopt these acts, we also have today concerns and demands to amend certain provisions of ZUREP. I am afraid, and I hope, that it is not such that the current proponents would again think a bit of a hypnistic way of thinking about how we should celebrate it with fanfare, because, in fact, it puts a great deal of responsibility before us, it poses a lot of risks, because, by itself, we can, in the process of adopting acts and later reaching into space, there are also what kind of goods, let's say, rudeness. So the risks and responsibility are certainly not lower now, I would hope to say, even after the warning of some top experts, at least the same size, in individual areas even bigger. While experience with ZUREP is really saying that it is good to fix something, but the question remains, has already been mentioned several times today, whether it is right that we are now going to break somewhat more narrow legislation. Three laws, which are in some ways compliments, have been discussed. The undernumber has been given, at least five are such laws, and this is one of our concerns about how we will find ourselves in this different legislation. Experts, too, may have problems, let alone investors who do not know how to do the job. One is ZUREP, which will remain in some part; the other is the Spatial Planning Act, which we adopt; the third is the Act on Architecture and Engineering, which will be adopted; and the Law on Construction of Buildings will also be passed, and we do not know what the final form will be; anything else can change in between, and there will certainly be these experiments. And those who bother me a little are already adopting a law that also plans space, but in a completely different area, that is Article 26 of the Law on Religious Freedom, which speaks of how we must plan objects based on the interest and needs of churches and religious communities. So we were not thrilled with such decisions when we adopted that law, and we still think it's a strange decision, but it's a "lex specialis" and it will take precedence over the thinking and taking of acts. It talks about how we will build where we have not built yet by asking first for the interests of religious communities and the church, and that we will have to change those spatial acts that have already been adopted if the religious community or the church so requires. So, this is some unusual act that is fundamentally interfering with spatial planning, especially because it also implies that new settlements must be built with or on the number of members of individual communities. How are we going to figure that out with what kind of polls? How many members of one, other or third religious community will be inhabited by the current corn field? In short, we are entangled in some paradoxes that are so that later we may not even be able to solve them. Well, the next thought we have here is about municipal contributions. We judge that it is not appropriate that the municipal contribution is so determined, as strictly intended, as is now envisaged. For the first time, since the state again determines how one of the last independent sources of municipalities can have municipalities and can no longer actually have them, it is clear exactly where we have to make this municipal contribution, that perhaps the municipal infrastructure was made from the integral resources of the budget, not from the municipal resources. And if we move this to the area of compensation for the use of building land, which we now have for five years is determined by the state, how we can use it, and how much we can use it, then we can see that these competences are somehow drying up to the municipalities. In particular, it is a matter of uniformity, it is possible to allocate from an integrated budget for municipal infrastructure and municipal contributions later cannot be returned to an integrated budget, but precisely for the purpose of doing so. The question is, What happens after the municipal infrastructure is, for example, quite well regulated in a congregation, and there may be some other needs in another area that may be greater, and the funds from municipal contributions should not be used for this. Similarly, we are disturbed by the partial ban on the exemption of the public contribution obligation when investors are no longer allowed to offer an investment deadline in such a way that their construction obligations are reduced, which concerns or will have to be replaced in some way. So, we also think that this is inappropriate and that this interference is in some of the original competences of local communities, which are still different and have different instruments to encourage investors, which ultimately means employment, contributions to the municipal budget, taxes to the state budget and so on and so on. So, some of these amendments, which are proposed today, will be supported by us, some - especially these on municipal contributions and exemptions - we will not, we will not oppose them. Otherwise, it would be unwise to reject the whole marriage. For the time being, we are satisfied with the fact that we are alerting us to our weaknesses and thereby raising our awareness of how we will be responsible for the further planning of the intervention into space.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the law as a whole. I give my word to Member Belly Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. Dear colleagues and colleagues today, for the third time, at least in this National Assembly, we are discussing the law on spatial planning and I think that we are mostly more or less repeating ourselves because there was a lot of what we heard today in the second reading debate. But I am surprised by certain views that we should take another two or three weeks and consider something. Now, those of you who wanted to do this, I think that the time has been enough for you to think and suggest and honestly, this law has been greatly complemented and many proposals have been taken into account. Just as the text, as it came in the first phase of the National Assembly, and what we have today on the table is improved, it is different and I think it satisfies the compromise between the expectations of the profession and those on which the development of space depends to the greatest extent possible. And this is an important question that some colleagues have been talking about, and I have been talking about it for the last time, where is this limit, where these things can come in or sometimes go in one direction or another. It is very difficult to determine and is probably also virtually impossible to follow in all cases. However, to expect only one part of this law to be taken into account as far as possible in spatial planning, it is said that only the interest of the profession, which I will not say is not important - it is important, it is very important, but it must also take into account all the others involved in this spatial planning process; it is said that the interests of the municipalities that are pursuing some general public benefits, the interests of the country and so on and must always be in some consonance. If I say in a plastic case when the profession finds that an area is suitable for construction, we probably agree that the profession will also find out here, but not only the one responsible for planning the development of the space, then it is the profession to propose the best solutions in accordance with the guidelines given to it by the congregation or the state, but it cannot be the other way around, but it cannot be the profession to direct whether or not something is going to happen in some area. I think there's a major moment here, and as long as the law is following him -- and I think it's him -- this problem, as far as I'm concerned, is solved. But I must say that in these so-called - or I will not say so-called - proposals of one part of the profession are a matter of concern. For I have the feeling that some comments are an expression of fear, that certain procedures will simplify, which will mean a little less drawing, a little less running and so on, which is not good, which is bad, and if we submit to these comments, we have done a bad job. Everywhere in the past, when this happened, the acts were bad, the laws were bad, and the principles that were to be followed at least in this area were not good. I did not support, for all these reasons, the proposal to postpone this point, because I believe that there is no need for this and that you will agree with what has been said several times today, following the existing ZUREP, the spatial development strategy and spatial order should be concluded somewhere by Wednesday of this year in all municipalities. I think we can count on the fingers of both hands the ones that are so far away that they'll have it done. And that's one of the reasons why we probably have to do something, because if we don't, we're maintaining some strange illogical state. But I'll tell you, it's ZUREP's fault that this didn't happen. I don't think so. I think there's a big part of the blame then on the implementation of the law itself. And here I think we need to focus on the greatest weight. I am firmly convinced that the Ministry is aware of these responsibilities, but not only of the Ministry, here I think it is one broader aspect that will have to achieve certain rules of conduct in the implementation of this law. I'll give you a case. There is nothing to help us if we now have written hands in here in which space regulators have to give guidance, and thank God that we have written, some of you have criticized here that in case of silence it is considered that they do not have them. It is good that it is so written, they must have them, they must give them; otherwise those who do not do so are responsible; they are responsible that they do not do something that is their task. What is the reason, then, for all those working in these areas to stick to deadlines? Someone's got a 30-day deadline and they stick to the 30th day, and if you ask him to make a decision within a week after he gets the kit, he says, "I've got 23 more days." That's wrong, and that's why it's a problem both in regulating the space and in obtaining different permits, as well as in all the activities where one needs to be said roughly, red tape. And these things will not be regulated by any law. We may not yet know how much we accept these rules of conduct, the rules of conduct, this culture at all these levels will not settle, we have achieved nothing. This law brings one important issue, and this is the silence of the body. In such a case, I think things can go forward and it is right to move forward. However, there is no reason why, for example, one parastatal institution such as DRSC, the Company of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, its official issues guidelines on Day 30. There is no need and no justification for this, irrespective of the fact that he has the right for 30 days. Or when we changed the law that sets out various measures for the municipalities, encouraging them, etc., where the 15th day happens from the Ministry of Finance to supplement the application. 15 days is a one-month deadline. I think there are things here that condition the implementation of the law and then we pour ashes in the National Assembly, because we make bad laws. That's not true! Generally speaking, legislation is not bad, it is appropriate and is an appropriate foundation, only implemented in an appropriate manner. I cannot join those opinions that say that things will slow down as a result of this law. They won't. If you have read carefully, the law establishes a very simple level of these spatial acts. Very simple. The congregation, which has a very well worked out issue and which strategically knows what it wants, will also make this very detailed in the implementation part of the municipal site plan, and this will be the basis for all interventions to the space. Those who do not have this will leave things in order, as colleague Gantar has said, somewhat in a more general way, of course, still within such frameworks that investors will be able to obtain building permits and will be able to regulate individual arrangements in more important areas with a more detailed plan. It is said that the system is very rational and very clear and that there are no duplicates and no duplicates and no different levels of acts that could prevent normal interference into space. At this primary level, however, the municipality is the one and not the state, as was said here, that the state does not receive any new powers compared to the current law. It is only that the powers of this law are very clearly demarcated and that there is also a possibility of planning where, for such or other reasons, the congregation does not want to do so. Here it is, you will probably agree, that this option is given, but otherwise the state has a very clear definition in the law, in which cases spatial regulation can take place and in which cases it is not. Contrary to this general presentation, however, amendments, other than government ones, I must say, I do not know how important substantively. On the part of a group of unrelated Members, we have two amendments here, both of which are relatively irrelevant in my opinion, given what we have heard is conceptually wrong in the law, I would expect different amendments. So those who are here are not the ones who would talk about the fact that the law is so wrongly set. However, amendments after the debate on the amendments. I don't think we should be under the illusion that by adopting the Spatial Planning Act, everything will open up. However, I think that one foundation will be laid with one clear definition of those who are in charge of regulating the space so that they know how, in what way and under what conditions this space should be planned. And one of the important things that I wanted a very clear answer to, and I got it, is that where procedures are going, that change will not be an obstacle to the further planning process. I have been assured that this is the case, including these changes, and this amendment that we have today finally speaks for this issue. Since this seems essential, very important to me, even if in some local community things have been done in a more detailed way than the current law requires, there is nothing wrong with this. I think that this is only good and it is important that all these procedures, regardless of where they are, whether it is just a matter of starting a preparatory programme or a space conference already concluded, continue without hindrance, and this law, according to the assurances of the minister and the co-workers, ensures this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The word has been delivered by the Member of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. In fact, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have tabled in the third reading only two amendments, which were found to be relatively irrelevant a few moments ago. I agree with that conclusion. However, I would like to clarify that after the ruling coalition has rejected public hearing, after the ruling coalition has rejected all the amendments in the second reading, we have actually tabled these two amendments out of despair or for some symbolic reason. You also know that in the third reading, the amendments are very limited. Why? What articles can they be invested in? However, the fact is that so far they have not been taken into account, they have all been rejected in order, so it is in fact clear that there is no hope that anything, as colleague Gantar has already said in the presentation of our parliamentary position, will be possible at all. However, I must say, my fellow Members and colleagues, especially the distinguished Minister, that your arguments in my ears reflect on Monday when you requested that the law not be discussed at this meeting of the National Assembly and that another thought be given to it. Among these arguments, Mr Minister, the emphasis was placed on the fact that the congregations of this law want to support it and that they are a little less enthusiastic and look forward to it. I must say that as a former mayor, I have been working for quite some time to deal with the changes or to deal with the proposal of this law, because the debate has really been going on for some time now, and it started almost a year ago. At that time, I warned that it seemed to me that the time when this law was being prepared and this public hearing began was very carefully chosen, at a time when most of the municipal people, the mayors, were being burdened by the local elections last fall. In short, the interlocutors were in a handicap, and that was very appropriate for your ministry. I must say, I've never seen this enthusiasm myself, Mr. Minister. I've also been through all the correspondence. At least one representative association, the Community of the Communities, sent to the law, I think eight times the letters in which it made a number of letters - several parties commented on all the articles. I must say that most of these things have not been taken into account, but some have been taken into account, and I must admit that. There is no argument, however, Mr Minister, that the municipalities are looking forward to this law with great anticipation and enthusiasm. The municipalities were looking forward to something else, Mr. Minister. For more than half a year, we have asked you, through a representative association of the Community of the Municipality of Slovenia, to give instructions and explain how the municipalities should proceed during this transitional period. We have never received this letter from the congregation in the past year. We didn't know what to do. We all signed marginally high contracts, and we all started drafting spatial acts under that 2003 law. These contracts, for example, have already taken more than 80 million old tolls in my congregation because they were previously in these amounts. And of course, no one in your ministry has ever told us what to do, whether to go on or to do new professional backgrounds under this law, what you will do. So you were deeply embarrassed, and you never gave this answer to the congregations, ever. On Monday, however, the municipalities in Parliament in some way even used it to illustrate how they wanted to do so. You were probably also representatives of the ministry at a consultation held in Kranj on the new spatial law. And according to my information, there wasn't any excitement that was discussed here on Monday. There were a lot of criticisms, there were a lot of questions, there were a lot of concerns from the congregations, there was uncertainty, there was a dilemma, and I think you heard that at this meeting in Kranj. They are concerned in the congregations, for according to the old law they have come to some place; now all things are put on their heads again in the midst of the work. We've lost more than three years. I have to say, in 2003, you probably know where the arguments were that it decided to, I'll say, radically change the spatial planning law. Most municipalities had spatial acts back in the 1980s and before, even the professional bases were from these years, and then this was only built up with new and new changes and, of course, the matter was already completely opaque, so it was radically cut and required a completely new design on new foundations, new professional foundations, produced by ten different preparers. And now in the middle of this process, when I admit, the old law was not good, I admit, and it is absolutely necessary to change it, and this is what we also expected of you, you have decided a significantly more radical path, for a completely new law that has put it all on the head, which has changed all the expressions, all the expressions are changed, meaning individual things, and in this sense I do not share any enthusiasm with those who think it will cause simplification. Given that the majority of municipalities have a ready-made act of up to 80% will not simplify, but will now work only for six months to translate what has already been done and paid into the requirements of the new law. And believe me, we're gonna lose another year, a year and a half before any act is passed. I am sure or I hope that you know what you are doing at a time when projects are missing, when the whole of Slovenia is in the process of trying to fix things, we will only be able to implement projects where that old law has already allowed walliness, everything else stands. It is extremely difficult for the municipalities to respond from day to day to people who want requalifications, changes in destination, which lays down a spatial act concerning the future, that they have been waiting for three years, and they will wait a year, a year and a half or more, because the matter is so complicated. In this sense, I feel that the municipalities are not in an enviable situation, even investors are not in an enviable situation. I think you've just gone into a fundamentally radical intervention. Every time a minister in this department, I'll say, his colleagues in the field of space, at least that's how I've seen things in the last 12 years, enlightening with new and new ways and concepts of regulating space. Ministers have never been experts in urban planning and spatial planning, but they had to listen to these teams gathered around the minister in one way or another, which have always, I must say, caused the local communities exceptional, extraordinary problems. In all the 12 years of my county, I must say that this is the area that has caused the most problems in specific matters. It was the tallest bar, and sometimes in that no one had actually responded in years and years - thank God, that changed. Sometimes, in fact, they could have left the congregations waiting for their agreement on the spatial acts for months and months. And I must say that even over the team, which at this point, I will say, somehow leads Minister Podobnik through these four spatial laws, I am not thrilled. All of you want to always log into history, make revolutionary changes, put things on your head, show your past colleagues who have previously regulated this, that they had no idea in fact; and this is how it has been happening in Slovenia since the past 15 years, and the victims are municipalities that have outstanding problems here, and many investors who will tell you that such a complex system as Slovenia has is almost impossible to find on a global scale. And, of course, unfortunately, there is nothing to fix this, you will not contribute to this new change or this new change, but you will probably cause further confusion and congestion. Of course, that is my dilemma, the criticism that this is not good. I must also say that you promised the municipalities something else at this stage when they led this public hearing with you in some way, in order to prepare a scheme of procedures after stages, how spatial acts, what the applicable laws mean and how this is translated into a new law. This scheme, too, you have ensured that it is ready, but this was quite a while ago, in February at a meeting of the Council of State and their commission for local self-government, but, according to my information, it may not be accurate now, because I am no longer directly involved in the congregation - these schemes or these information have not yet been received. Thus, in fact, the embarrassment is great, and certainly no special positive changes are expected in all the praise that some give to this. It is embarrassing when the law - and my assessment - is that the law should only change at the most difficult points, but not fully correct where there is no need. The renaming - for him there is, in my opinion, no other need than for someone to re-enter history, because he introduced all these new concepts and all the old ones we deleted with such an intervention. Here I do not see any great progress, and of course I hope that I am wrong, I hope that I am wrong - I would be very happy, but, unfortunately, so far in all of this long-standing practice, there is no good result on the part of the people working on this spatial planning in the design of these laws. In this sense, unfortunately, I cannot support this law and accept the responsibility for its further introduction into practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The Minister shall be involved in the debate. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I am confident that this composition of the National Assembly will be recorded in history because it will adopt a good law on spatial planning proposed by Minister Janez Podobnik in government procedure with a good team, a team led by the Minister rather than a team minister. Dear Member! I can assure you that you listed three key elements that led me as Minister, that I have proposed the changes I have proposed. And of course, the argument that the proposed changes would be bad for the municipalities cannot stand. Here our argument is the strongest. Just as you yourself have found that you know few countries that have as complex a system as Slovenia has led me and my team to take this task seriously. Here I just repeat, we have not heard anything new today in the debate, no new argument, the old ones themselves, but we can reopen them in Parliament, so that we can find together that it will be good for Slovenia to get a new law. It was a matter of principle, which is also of procedural nature: can the applicable law on regulating space, with some changes in those elements where it proved to be non-operational, be corrected. For it is necessary to say that some good solutions to the current ZUREP remain. We didn't put it all on our heads. Just what we thought we needed. And it turned out - and here are the experts involved, I assure you - that if we want the procedures - it was very well spoken of by Member Cernač - to simplify and reduce them; at the same time, it will not be necessary to sign such contracts as you have signed, for 80 million tolars, for some professional grounds. Then we must go into some conceptual changes. It is legitimate that some have now felt hurt, because these contracts will be slightly lower in the coming years, respected Members and Members, and the municipalities will be able to devote this money for other purposes, not for the mountains and mountains of paper that they had to prepare after the current ZUREP. We can find this together and assure you that we have very responsiblely reviewed what the current ZUREP tolerates, and we have found that the current ZUREP with the best intentions, as regards spatial planning of municipalities, is not optimal, but is not, above all, feasible. So this is the first argument: the procedure will be simplified. The second argument is that procedures will also be cheaper. This is an important contribution. And the third one is tied to jurisdiction. In no way will the congregation lose its autonomy in planning spatial development. It is true, however, that the law brings a solution in the event that it is found that it is also in the interest of the congregation, that the state enters into the instrument of the State spatial act and settles a problem that the municipalities themselves cannot handle. I would like to recall the debate at the last session, when some of you have even pleaded "give us such a solution", and such a solution is in the law in force. I have no illusion that now, after this adoption of the law, everything will be open and settled. The hard work is just beginning or continuing. You've been there twice. It was said that we were crucified between risk and responsibility. Much less than the minister would have taken a risk if he had referred to the current ZUREP, his very long procedures, complicated, some confusion between the spatial acts themselves, perhaps proposed a minor change, but things would have gone a long way. From the point of view of responsibility, I would have acted irresponsibly. I held it responsible that, in the case of a law that has not yet fully entered into force, I have proposed some radical changes, as you say. They were necessary, but they were needed because of content and I am sure we know what we are doing and that the solutions proposed for the Slovenian municipalities will be good and good for the country in terms of the preparation of the State Spatial Act. There's something else I'd like to say. Communication with the professional public, communication with the associations of the congregations, we received many letters from the congregations, we responded to each one in writing or orally. I've met at least 100 mayors on this subject. At each government meeting on the ground, this was one of the main topics and I spoke exactly as I speak here today. You have two paths, municipalities: you can follow the current ZUREP and prepare the necessary professional bases and we will do everything with the new law to take them into account as much as possible. The municipalities knew that, I assure you. Our communication was transparent, permanent and completely frank. It was said that I was talking about the expectations of the municipalities, the congregations were expecting changes, but the word enthusiasm may have been somewhat exaggerated, but the congregations we were meeting with Minister Virant, just before the government passed the proposed law on the government, there were representatives of almost all Slovene municipalities, of all municipalities, where the congregations really supported these changes. We've received a few amendments, we've taken them into account to a large extent, we couldn't all, those that didn't go into our concept, we couldn't. As Minister, I am responsible for defending a concept that is different from what some of you would expect. This is the essence of the policy that a government has a concept that then defends it. However, I must admit that I have not heard the compelling reasons for a different concept than we propose. I have not heard it, and in some ways there is a square circle here, you cannot at the same time ask the government to shorten procedures, to place important state infrastructure facilities as soon as possible or to allow the rapid, quality use of European structural and other resources, with one of the most complex systems that Slovenia has in the area of spatial legislation. It's not going either. And if we have decided to do everything we can to make the procedures shorter, more transparent, and cheaper, then the proposed path is the one in which I firmly believe. I believe in my team, too, and I trust her. At the same time, we have always said, we did not go into reducing procedures at the expense of the quality of the solutions themselves. However, we were very keen on ourselves in administrative steps. Finally, the body's silence is an important and courageous novelty that has been introduced with the proposed solutions. I am aware that, therefore, with the proposed resolution of the law, the hard way will begin; I am ready for it, along with the team, the sub-laws are prepared, including the scheme of more detailed procedures. Mrs Orzmova, we have sent them to the Commission of the National Assembly for Local Self-Government and you can get them with them, but we can also send them to you; I have already shown them to some Members at the previous meeting, because we also had them with us. It is understandable that in the third reading there are amendments that are more editorial in nature and only in some nuances do they improve the proposed changes to the second reading. And that's what happened today. And in terms of conceptual solutions, there is virtually no amendment, which would mean a radically different change of law, which is also logical. We have two changes that are of a substantive nature, and the Government proposes one. In the last session, we talked for over an hour about the content of the municipal contribution; I hope that we will find a solution here that will show that it will also be best established in practice. But if it's necessary, I'd like to take a look at some of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you. Replica, Member of the Zalokar Orazem Flower, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I agree with you in a lot of ways. What you have said in the end is clear that there are no revolutionary and very important amendments. For the time and time to talk about concepts is the time and moment of public consultation, which is about this law, there was no such important law and you did not allow it. That's not good. That's where we'd talk about concepts. And of course, there are so many amendments that, if we disagree on some conceptual things, we can write, like the articles of the law. This must be too much material. I agree with everything else. I also said that there are a lot of critical thoughts about the existing law, a lot of criticism, there is no dilemma. But we're different in nuances -- if we start this again, with an empty leaf, then it's possible to make such a big difference. But you know well, and that was what I wanted to tell you most of the time that the congregations were in the middle of work. In the middle of the work! For two or three years, everyone has been working, all the congregations have been preparing spatial acts, and you have been given extremely modest or deficient instructions, and I have many of these letters, and I can show them to you, asking you what to do in the middle of their journey. And here, halfway, you came up with a new completely different concept of spatial regulation. That's my critique. Once again, after the old procedure, those who have already decommissioned the spatial act will be able to continue their work - and these are extremely few. They were right before that, and most of them are right before that, believe me. Why? Because last year no one started to open spatial acts if they were the autumn elections. This is, I'll say, unhygienic from the old mayors and they left the deal at this point, 80% of the prepared acts, mostly new suits or a new mandate. And here's what I want to explain to you is that there's a bad understanding of the situation, if I say so myself, on the ground. And in this sense, you have caused great, great problems for the congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'm going to repeat what I warned about at the second reading and I'm going to warn again. I believe that this law interferes with the legislation relating to public finances, which provides for the purpose of a municipal budget source, which so far - both under the Public Finance Act and under the Community Financing Act, as well as after the previous spatial legislation and building legislation - has treated the municipal contribution as a source of the municipal integrated budget and thus could not be determined that it is a dedicated resource which can be used in any current financial year only for the purposes for which it was also collected. If the debtors paid or paid a municipal contribution in 2007 for the construction of buildings, these funds may only be used for the construction of infrastructure, for the provision of economic public services and for other public goods. Which means that if the municipality plans to build public infrastructure in all respects in the course of the current year, just as an amendment has explained that there are no longer any doubts as to what public infrastructure is actually, the question has arisen if the municipality plans a certain amount in the development programme plan to regulate this area and collects more resources in the current year, meaning that, since it is dedicated money, it has to transfer this money to the next year. And here is the question, I ask again: why did the government not foresee a correction of this dictatorship, namely that this is the purposeful revenue of the municipal budget. Since the municipality has invested in a particular area funds of the municipal budget which have not been collected in the past from paid municipal contributions, because the municipality has planned to equip a particular area and collect a municipal contribution for construction in the area and is planning construction from other sources and also during another period, it has already furnished municipal equipment. Or if we go to extremes. If the municipality is municipally equipped with its entire area, if it does not have to build municipal equipment anymore, and maintains municipal equipment from compensation for the use of building land, which is indeed a purposeful income, we can say, even though it is not treated in this way, then I ask why the municipality cannot pay for past investments in municipal equipment from sources coming later on to the municipal budget. It is said that we should keep the money in our budget indefinitely or deposit it in deposits, preferably at a very low interest rate or no interest rate, so that the Ministry of Finance can control all the money we have available to the municipalities from where the idea of us deciding on public finances in the Spatial Planning Act is based. Where did that come from? If it is necessary to provide that the municipal contribution is the earmarked revenue of the municipal budget, then please propose an amendment to the law on public finances or the law on the financing of municipalities and write that the municipal contribution is the dedicated revenue of the municipal budgets. But if that is not the case, please delete this provision from this law because it does not belong in this law. And the second thing is, it goes far beyond what the municipal contribution is supposed to represent. And secondly, I explicitly support the amendment to Article 2, which speaks of the state's location plan or state spatial plan defining land as building land. It is simply impossible for us to have two levels of spatial plans that deal with spatial acts in such a way that one of those from another type of land turns land into building land but one does not. What's the logic here? What's a healthy farmer's mind here? So the state spatial plan simply doesn't have the power to change So if the state spatial plan determines that there's a road running somewhere, that road doesn't run through the building land, but it runs for what? [[...]] By agricultural land, or what? I must say that this law, and I will now comment on one of the previous debates, that when we talk about systemic errors in the law, it is said that the conceptual law is wrong, of course - let us be smart and use common sense - does not allow the amendment to be corrected. It's not an amendment to the conceptually flawed laws. As a result, even when we had our first consideration of this law, we made it clear that we cannot support such a law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. He's not in the hall. I give my word to the Minister. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you very much. First of all, I would just like to assure the Members of Parliament, who had previously commented that the proposed changes are such that the municipalities put into a difficult situation. I'm pretty sure the way is the other way around. That the municipalities will be in a clearer position to prepare municipal spatial acts. In fact, as far as the means are concerned, I would simply like to repeat the position that I have already presented at our last meeting at the previous consideration of the law when we discussed this subject a lot. First of all, in consultation with the representatives of the Court of Auditors, it was suggested that it was conceptually right for the law to speak of purpose rather than of a sub-legislative act. As I said at the time, the current regulation, Article 2, of the Regulation, states the following, and applies to all Slovene municipalities: "The revenue collected from the payments of municipal contributions is the revenue of the municipal budget which the municipality can use only for the purpose of equipping land for construction in accordance with the municipal budget development programmes plan." That's still true today. However, as you have already mentioned, Article 44 of the Public Finance Act refers to the transfer of funds. Dedicated funds that have not been used in the past year, other than funds that the direct consumer reaches through his own activity, shall be transferred to the budget for the current year. Here comes the problem, but I think it is right to defend this decision that the municipal contributions of the congregation are their development money. And it is important that we also make this clear in the law. That's what we set out with our law before us. Purpose. In 2005, in Slovenia, a good 14 billion Slovenian tolls of investment in municipal equipment were collected from the municipal contribution, 14 billion were municipal contributions and more than 42 billion Slovenian tolars were invested in municipal equipment. This is said to be the difference that the municipalities provide from other sources through their municipal budgets. And since there is a lack of municipally equipped land in Slovenia, which is very important for different areas, if I mention at least residential areas, and another, it is right that the law of the municipality aims at investing as much in municipal equipment as possible, so we have followed a solution that is also supported by those involved in the purpose of maintaining the municipal contribution as a dedicated resource in accordance with the regulation that is now in force in the current Article of the Regulation. However, I am not in charge of amending the Public Finance Act. You have to understand that. I think with this solution, I'm sure it's the right way. Finally, this can be a very important development money for Slovenian municipalities and many investments are directly linked to municipal land equipment. They are linked to a number of development investments and here we are on the same boat. I think it's a good solution and I'm defending it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You've given me a hard time. When you read 14 billion and 42 billion, that's exactly what I'm saying. Mr Minister, this 42 billion has not been invested by the state. It is said that the congregations invested three times as much money in municipal equipment as they collected it with municipal contributions. Whether for this reason we need a special provision in the Spatial Planning Act, by which we force municipalities to have dead money in a treasury account or placed at reliable banks, because we know how it works, because one or two years, including through the procedures of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which prevents the start of municipal equipment of certain areas where municipalities have adopted spatial plans and implementing acts, cannot make the money collected with a municipal contribution, that year or another year to invest in municipal equipment of new areas. Because somewhere else the utility equipment is already built. And one more thing, I'm going to develop another theory. For example, in Slovenia we build in Istria, as far as I know, it is an express "primary", above all, if we are talking about a Cyprus-Isolian cleaning plant that will cover over 70,000 units. Is this equipment, which is not the utility of the second, but is "primary", allowed to invest funds collected from municipal contributions? I don't think so. Since the municipal contribution is the payment of part of the costs of municipal equipment in a particular area and the part called the old "primary" for it is not a source of municipal contribution. When we talk about purpose, let's be as complete as possible. And when you say that you are not responsible for correcting the law on public finances, I agree with you, in particular on the purpose of the funds and the handling of the funds, not only that you should not correct them, but that no one should correct them, because it is right that this is stipulated in the law. However, it is not right that you, in the Law on Spatial Planning, made a certain income out of municipal revenue and designated it as intended. You who are not responsible for regulating public finances, but only for regulating the premises. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, you shot a complete pass here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u33	Mrs. Pechanova, your replica time is up. Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u34	Yes, I'll be right there, thank you very much. And for that reason, of course, I cannot agree with your explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u36	Just for a little while. This Article of the Public Finance Act, paragraph 44, has another provision in paragraph 2, which states: "The volume of funds transferred increases in the financial plan of the consumer to which they relate and the budget." So not everything is so black about these funds transferred. Otherwise, I must say that the solution I am talking about has been in force for three or four years, this is nothing new, but I have before me an article of the regulation that is in force. So we're talking about a solution that works. And this solution, as we now propose, is also fully in line with those responsible for public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a transparent approach, this is a good approach, and I am sure that it will eventually prove to be a good approach for Slovenian municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! I am aware of the fact that the law will no doubt be adopted today. When I look at this story ahead, I see the environment from which I come, where, let's say, we haven't done any spatial planning since 1999. And this story is desirable, welcome, and I also offer to the Ministry of Environment and Space that, for example, a municipality like ours can also offer the first and pilot project in practice, because people in line visit me daily. In my desk drawers, I have 500 applications for changes per day, and weekly we reject investors who would open jobs in our congregation. We don't have a football field either, and we can't locate it right now. Since there are more than 15,000 of us in the congregation, you can confirm that we are still interested in being separated from each other and that we are confused. On the one hand, the eminent profession speaks its own, and this is the kind of profession that I will have to call as mayor with a decision and a public order in two months to make me an offer. Therefore, you need to understand that if such eminent experts do not insist that we are then mayors who are not spatial experts, I can honestly say this, to some extent we can rightly be concerned and expect assistance and support from the Ministry in the next steps. I agree with this, of course, even the profession, where it opposes something, has its interests whether its interests have been affected or their interests diminished. No doubt, professional, I know her, she always comes around. I want this law to take into account not only the interests of the profession but, above all, the interests of the people. For example, in our case, each of the 500 who came to the congregation with some role in changing the destination of land, each of the investors who wants to build something to be openly, especially transparent and as quickly as possible, I think I see the bright salaries of this law, promising faster procedures. If that's true, then I'm no doubt right next door and right behind. Because I think a lot of these investors have gone through their financial yearnings. Among them were people who were willing to build on a new house of business that had been set up in a bank for credit. And if, in 1999, when we last talked about it, someone took credit in the Market, then I have to tell you that as a craftsman, the entrepreneur has long since failed. Such matters must be avoided in the future. I was pleased to inform the minister that the acts of law were already in place. If I remember correctly, I think the law for the adoption of these sub-laws is two months. Today is the end of March, I hope that by the end of May - before the summer begins, as the municipal council and as mayor, we can already take the first steps. If that's not the case, then of course tell me. I also want the congregations to receive specific instructions on how to deal with the initial procedures themselves. I also talked to two, three companies that are doing this, and I said, "So what should we do, what should we start, we can do something in the right direction right now, so that the story will be more successful, faster." They said to me, "We're standing there, waiting for the moment of adoption of the law, of the law, and of the law, and of course instructions." When I was preparing for the debate on this law this night, a number of professional publications came into my hands, where the law on the construction of buildings was already being discussed. This is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, necessary and necessary, if, of course, all these matters are to be brought under the roof in the next two, three months, then we have an opportunity to get a good and effective law and probably on behalf of all municipalities and on behalf of all the mayors we recommend to the Ministry for these first steps and assistance. Why don't we study together? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The law that we are discussing today is very important, as can be seen in literature, with long-term consequences or consequences only on a long-term basis, sometimes only after 10, 20 years. That is why today our lead in the debate is primarily the responsibility to manage space. As we know, Slovenia is a small country and therefore it is all the more important how we manage space. On the other hand, investors in buildings or future builders or builders who are already building are given a new opportunity by this law. We all know that building a building is a one-time life decision, which is usually used for savings of an entire generation. And I'd like to talk about the marriage from the point of view of the former builder, because I have a lot of experience, because I moved to a new house on October 28th last year and that's why my discussion could go partly in the direction of comparing the old - new. I expect a lot from simplifying the consent process, because I have a one-year experience with the calvary of paper production, although there was nothing at stake. The Minister has already said that it will be precisely by simplifying the acquisition of consensus when the 38 is reduced to 12 papers, and that will also save the time and costs of the investor, but of course a rather poor will. On the other hand, this leads, all in one place. Once the future builder can get more papers in one place, on one role, it will reduce his time and costs again and make it easier to build. We are aware of the importance of any cost reduction when building. Then you're literally, as we say in Gorenjska, as dry as pepper. So it's an empty wallet all year. And any euro saved from paperwork will be very welcome. The latest technical and technological aids also allow for ortho-photo-photo-pictures and other measurements, better predicting or evaluating certain areas, specific plots, the risk of swimming, flood hazards, etc. It would be very useful, say, for my neighbors, about 500 meters from the air, building in a pretty steep shore if they had this data back then on the steep shore. And then, when they made the shank, they soaked up the ground that the sock and the watermelon floated away, and they had about 50 million costs. Well, for one more house. If we had more up-to-date data, the construction would probably have been discouraged. When we discussed the proposal of this law on the Committee on the Environment and Space, there was a very strong lobby of expertise. And about the profession, from my own experience, you could say that we have a profession and a profession, in connotations. I have experience with both of them. Let's just say your profession tells you one of its decisions. You get an envelope, you open it, and it says "no consent." And then, of course, when it shocks you, when it's five minutes long your whole life, when adrenaline increases, the pressure increases and so on, then you see in small print that consent is not issued because you're not in an area of interest. Well, I hope the profession can fix that. Let's say this sentence, this thick-standing press, could also be written "consent is not necessary because it is not in the field of interest" and it would be read differently and there would be no shocks for the builder. Then I have a bad experience with so-called landscapers. At the stage of the plan, I was defeated by a balcony and an erkar. The terrace is also a good solution, I am very pleased with it, but nothing about it, I took note and performed it as necessary. Some mile away from me, in the neighboring village of Bodovlje, I have relatives, so I can see their house from the top floor. On their pitch is like an island of church property, the branch church of St. Peter, and these relatives of the landscapers, although when they were informed of the possibility of construction, had no limitations. We could make a green house with red windows, like, no one would protest. To someone else, forward, behind a hill where he doesn't even see these churches building this year, maybe at the end of the year, he's been banned by balconies and archers again. Why? Because of the proximity of the church of St. Peter, who does not see it at all, he hears it three times a day when it rings. In my time when I wanted to see this landscaper, once or twice a week he comes to Škofja Loko from Ljubljana. I'm sure he knows all this on the ground in detail and makes decisions to mind, of course, which cost something, and that stamp is abused and still. And now it's about the profession, from a different point of view. A test dig was required up to a depth of three metres due to the carrying capacity of the terrain. The profession discussed this, but at the same time we received good information that it is up to 1.7 meters of constant water. And she could have arranged for me to make a stronger drainage so that we didn't go to the ground so much and have peace in front of the water. So much for a profession that's professional and unprofessional. From the perspective of a future investor, I certainly welcome the adoption of this law, the adoption of simplified procedures for some future builders. There have also been some concerns because I also have experience as a municipal councillor regarding municipal spatial acts. At first, there were many thunderstorms, and few rains later, when explained on the ground, may be just one or two more controversial comments or controversial comments from one or two municipalities. And if there is no problem in the congregation, if they can immediately switch from an old man to a new one, then I see no reason to oppose the law. A third reason why it's good to have a marriage. Under-laws and an important law on the construction of buildings are being prepared. When all of this is accepted and a whole is formed, we will be able to proceed with interventions to the room in a wise manner without damaging the space without damaging nature. Above all, I hope that in the light and spirit of our ancient ancestors, who are without all, I do not know what professional foundations and so on through the common farming mind made beautiful clothes, looking at the pleasant living environment. Even today, it is nice to ride to some karst village, to look at it from far away. Take a ride, say, from Portorož to Strunjan, a one-time view. If we can maintain this and if the spatial planning law is one of the points on this path, then it must be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you, too, for sharing this interesting story with us. I give my word to Mojka Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! And, like our colleague Rezman taught us today, even respected viewers and viewers! However, the thing we are talking about today is serious, serious for those present in this room and very serious for viewers and viewers as well. There is probably no applicable law or legislation that is so often dealt with among individuals, in the professional public, in the field of local communities and also at the level of the State. And not only dealt with, but also critically treated and criticized. This shows that the existing legislation in force in this area is not good and is obviously not consistent. So today we are discussing the first phase of spatial planning. The fact is that the procedures in the past have been too complicated and too long. These procedures caused a lot of gray hair to many people, and again they caused quite good profits to others, especially to those authorized operators, so-called qualified operators, who helped municipalities, municipal administrations to obtain various documents, documents, when they worked together to prepare a spatial act. And as we have heard today, in no congregation in four years since the old law, this has failed. Of course, there is something on the question of the expertise of the municipal administration itself and their initiatives, but the information provided in the introduction shows that there was something wrong with the law, at least that the law is not consistent. Indeed, it is high time to prepare, in accordance with the guidelines of the law, such spatial documents, which will clearly and unequivocally determine what can and cannot be done on a given land. Not only are these documents prepared, but it is possible for the congregations to accept these documents and then to stick to them. Here today, I would like to point out that, at least during a certain transitional period, there will be some things particularly problematic in practice, for some, perhaps even traumatic, especially because of the inadequacy of the past, because of the problems that remain in the past today and that are here today, which we can also face. Here I am primarily referring to those who, on the one hand, were given the opportunity to legalize their black constructions and, on the other hand, to those which, according to today's law, they could not even exploit these possibilities because they had their own building on the case, their housing construction in an area that was not in the area of masculinity. Since there were no relevant spatial acts, they could not continue to carry out their procedures. There is not enough time today to present all the problems that people in the former Ljubljana-Vič-Rudnik municipality have been carrying on their shoulders for a long time, but there are problems here and now. And when I tell you, just in case, an even more graphic example of the conduct of the competent administrative unit, it might be easier to understand. Well, let me first focus on spatial acts in this area. By the 1990s, space acts had not been properly adopted. And now to the already announced case in the administrative unit, when, in the case of a simple application, it is far to talk about the construction of the house, in the case of a simple application for an urban notification decision given in 1997, the competent authority has kept silent for four years and in 2001 has written that the role needs to be complemented, although the application for annexes has already been submitted in 1997, but apparently, in all these years, the annexes have been lost, as in a number of other cases, so as not to mention extreme cases. The proceedings somehow did not take place in the process and in accordance with the law. So much for an illustration of why some have even given up at this stage. This was also beautifully illustrated by Comrade Zicherl. I would like to remind you of the existing problem of residential buildings that have been standing for decades, but both the municipality and the individual have an interest in the regulation, but their roles have been rejected, especially that certain parcels could not be included in the plan because they were not competent, I am speaking here to local communities, the permits issued so that they could be included in the spatial act. In a specific case, I am talking about cases of scattered settlement, for example, when someone built a house next to their parents' house, a building to solve the housing problem for themselves and for their family. The law dispersed settlement keeps, and this is good, of course it gives certain conditions. Above all, I think this is important for maintaining and reviving farms and, as a result, for preserving the natural landscape. However, it would not be good if this law prevented the regulation of the existing problem, which I have also just highlighted. A while ago, I also explained this to you at the Ministry. I am pleased that I have been told that this will also be regulated more precisely in the law. We all know what's right and that things have to be arranged by law. The fact is also that the municipality is a great actor here, it has a very large role as a drafter as a proposal for spatial acts, but as a member I also appeal to the distinguished Minister of Podobnik and the co-workers of the Ministry to listen to the municipalities, because they also know the specific and actual problem best. I also hope that today's adoption of the law will come to life that, as we have already been told and explained here for the third time, these problems will in practice be much less than they have been, and they have been faced and faced by both local communities and individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you, too. I give my word to a magician. Milan M. Squill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! The question that comes to me in today's debate is: Has the government decided that after having taken over its own economy by submitting public servants, public television, etc., does this government not decide to take ownership of the environment? Otherwise, I cannot understand how, at the call of experts, and it has been said that these experts are interested in doing what they wrote because in some municipalities they are helping them, space or interventions into space should be balanced so that these experts should not have the right to write what they sent us to the National Assembly on 21 March, where they tell us that three laws, especially the Spatial Planning Act, do not follow what we have done in Slovenia either well in the existing space regulation law or what should be corrected in Slovenia. Experts say that regulating the space is precisely because you can reach out to a certain plot once in your life, next time you have to do anything and do something on this plot first, requires a very careful, very balanced intervention into the space. I think that if anyone goes a little beyond the borders of Slovenia, it is enough to drive to northern Italy, where the intervention to the premises was led by some other logic, and if you compare it with the Slovenian space, I fear that, as you suggest, you forget what the minister of the environment is doing. He is also Minister of Environment and Space, but he is primarily Minister of Environment: to preserve the environment that the government has gained in governance, including for the next generations. If experts say that the purpose of space regulation is primarily balanced and sustainable development in space, and the law does not allow this because shortcuts are being sought, then I fear that by means of the law on spatial planning, we will sacrifice the environment on the altar of other interests. If I add to this only that yesterday or before yesterday it was very significant that the new Minister for Development, whose task is to do so, said the Prime Minister here to place and ensure the implementation of 33 or 34 major projects of the Republic of Slovenia, that this Minister yesterday had his press conference in the House of Experiments, I have the feeling that this law is primarily an experiment by Minister Podobnik. This law, as experts say, along with the Construction Act, the Act on Architecture and Engineering, which are now being presented, simply does not guarantee that trends and conditions in space would be adequately monitored. I am afraid that even the failure to recognize the role of municipalities with the possibility that, when it is difficult to reconcile, the will of technocrats will prevail, that I will not say, bureaucrats at national level, we are losing this basic consensual search for solutions to place individual objects, individual developmental aspirations in space. A few weeks ago, when we were talking here, I was talking about two, three cases. I'm going to do one on purpose, because I'm wondering how else he's going to be placed in space, as of course with this law. It is called the expansion of the Vatican centre in the vicinity of Shentvid. The Minister of Defense has already replaced one territory for another territory. And the municipality of Ljubljana should amend the relevant spatial acts. I doubt that the municipality of Ljubljana will be prepared to do so with the current political force ratio. This law, however, allows the country to do so on its own. I don't know if this is going to be the possible religious center of St. Jozet Pleènik. But this law now makes it possible. Beyond the will of the Ljubljanaers to place anything in the space. Second sample, a few days ago, an attack into the Ljubljana market. A very serious question: Will the market close for two years to build a garage? Law requires a decision on this in the Ljubljana City Congregation. Now, because of the needs of the public authorities for parking spaces, this could become a state project and be done by way of the Ljubljana people's will, whatever that will be. We have also mentioned the third development axis, whether it will go west of Velenje or east of Velenje, if we look from south to north. And this will no longer be decided by the community of municipalities, a region that will even be formed, which, if I understand correctly, will be decided by the minister who held his press conference in the House of Experiments yesterday. This is what a program of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says about major development projects. The third development axis is written there. The law before us is, not in my opinion and not in the opinion of the opposition, but in the opinion of a number of signed experts here, people who are either urban spatial planners, landscape architects, dean, university professors who are involved say that this law is a truly historically wrong intervention in regulating space. And the minister's statement reminds me of 1976, when a former February came to the Faculty of Economics and said, "Surely, it is possible that the formation of organizations of joint works may not be a good economic solution, but you experts will be teaching it now." And if anyone who reads this document, which was forwarded to the National Assembly, still thinks that for reasons of laity in this Chamber, because we will regulate this or them view, this law is adopted, then accept it. I will not cooperate alone, and I will oppose this law. Unfortunately, this law will have exactly the wrong effect that it wanted. We're in early April 2007. A third of the first year of the seven-year period 2007-2013 has passed. As a result of this law, all procedures will only be reopened. All procedures in individual municipalities to obtain individual projects. And in 2007-2008, in the last two years of this government's mandate, there will be no facility placed and built at the premises for which we agreed in December 2005 within the framework of the European Union. Experts also point to this. And the last thought of so-called famous interference with the Public Finance Act. Mr Minister, paragraph 2 of Article 6 of the Public Finance Act, which states: "All benefits serve to cover all expenses, unless by this law," the Public Finance Act, "or the law governing the implementation of the budget for the state budget or the decree adopting the municipal budget, does not provide otherwise." What you are saying is where the revenues will be collected, where the revenues of the municipal contributions will be directed, which the Slovenian Public Payments Authority will continue to do so, and this goes strongly beyond the content of the Spatial Planning Act, but interferes with the Public Finance Act. And at least what should be done should be thrown out of this law. Slovenians and Slovenians will feel the immediate consequences of this law, historic decisions. Unfortunately, we will be among those countries that will destroy their environment irreparably, thanks to today's historic decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you, too. The Minister shall be involved in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much. If I could just make a quick call after Mr Cwickle's performance. This is precisely the argument that you have made with regard to the Public Finance Act was an argument in a discussion with the representatives of the Court of Auditors and led us to the amendment we are proposing. The utility contribution is a dedicated resource. A municipality with a decree adopting the municipal budget shall determine here we follow your discussion in full. [[...]] Therefore, it is illogical to look for criticism there if you write an argument in the law in the amendment you propose to the National Assembly. Here, however, it is only necessary to be so correct and to commend a solution if it is written in the way you discuss it. That's how we proposed it, as stated in the law you quoted. Otherwise, I must say that the assumption is that the MEP is a magician. She has trained the Government to make room with this law, completely wrong and has no real substantive basis, and as such I do not want to comment anymore. But it's his position that he can have, but I think it's completely wrong. Allow me, however, to comment at this time on one of the arguments that have been written in this letter of various professional associations that would like the law not to be adopted - there is no other way, you adopt or reject the law in the third reading. It would be very irresponsible to reject the law today. I'm sure that's not gonna happen. However, I would like to touch on an area which is entirely wrongly argued in this letter, whether it is knowledge or whether these eminent experts do not yet know everything about the EU. This is the content which is linked to the area of space during the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. Here I am referring to the spatial agenda, which says "Territorial Agenda of the European Union towards more competitive and sustainable Europe", and the so-called Leipzig Charter. At our ministry, experts and I are actively involved in the preparation of both instruments. They have already been harmonised at the level of the competent Directors-General and we plan to see ministers responsible for the regulation of premises and urbanism in Leipzig in the coming months. Moreover, the text of both instruments can then also be the starting point for the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, where, together with Portugal, Slovenia and then France, we will also implement the contents of both instruments with the action programme. In the context of these two instruments, we also want to prepare our architectural policy in this area within the framework of the Organisation of the Architecture Forum. This is said to be an absolute premature letter from any evidence relating to the emerging documents of the European Union, but above all, they are unfounded. They are unfounded, contrary to the facts in force. There's something else I'd like to say. The current law allows for balanced and sustainable spatial development. I'm pretty sure of that. One of the instruments for the enforcement of the instrument or concept of sustainable development in the area of spatial planning is the inclusion of a complex process of comprehensive environmental impact assessment in the spatial instrument preparation process itself. Here we always align ourselves with the interest of development, which is linked to different protection regimes. And this is the European direction that the law also fully sums up. However, I would like to comment briefly on the performance by Mrs Dolinarova, who has touched on a very sensitive issue. Spatial legislation often touches every citizen and citizen. This is a matter of inspection procedures. They as such are not the subject of this law, but of other laws. The fact that, if I understand correctly, the silence of the competent officer in the administrative unit is absolutely contrary to the law on administrative procedure. Those who have done so have every opportunity to initiate procedures to determine the responsibility of those who have apparently not responded within the time limit set by the ZUP. Where do we see the solution? In all those cases where no other procedure has been initiated, this law and then the opportunity of the congregations to go with the contents of new acts can also be addressed with questions of scattered settlement or new settlement. The proposed law makes this way possible, and I am sure that many Slovenian municipalities will follow this path, including the issue of municipal regulation and so on. So marriage is a good starting point. The area from which the Member State comes has quite a few old sins. The messenger has no sins. This is an area that has clearly been regulated in the past from a spatial point of view as it was. And I'm aware of some, in some cases procedures are being carried out at different levels - they should be completed. We have here a new opportunity, therefore, to hinder the congregations from doing their work with the content of this law. I'm sure they'll be able to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you. It's a replica. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u48	It's a very simple matter. It is the relationship between the Minister's word and the words signed with seven, eight experts. They say, according to the text of the draft constitution, newer documents, in particular regulations, the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund 1081, the European Association, territorial cooperation 1082, the Cohesion Fund with 3 August 2006, underlines the importance of territorial, social and economic cohesion. The setting up of the premises was subordinated to other interests in this law. That's your problem. That, Mr. Secretary, is the expertise. And it's just that, you can go to space irreversibly once, and you have to think this through. Now you say, there is no need for reflection, no need for development. And that's what the Minister for Development at the House of Experiments said yesterday. Slovenia does not need to be experimented with.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Mr. Bajc instead of the Intercessor. Here you go. Mr. Mikolitch, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When a person listens to us as experts, or those who listen to us, he can create his own opinion of our expertise. I think today we are the ones that we discussed when we presented the views of the parliamentary groups, as we are now in the debate, as if we were on two shores, as if we were reading different laws. First time. I would like to conclude that almost a year ago, some of the debaters mentioned this, this law was formed. At that time, I think that those who were interested, both politicians and experts, could have been involved in his genetics, from the first working material that was presented, I think, once last summer, and to this day, they could have had an impact if they were of course interested. Second. Proposals and today's debate and rejection of this law, as if we did not know the procedure of what happens to the law. Most of the debaters who objected to this law also note, as did I, that ZUREP is not good in many areas so far, and that it should be amended. We do, however, know, in the light of the rules of procedure, what happens in the third reading if the law is not dealt with. He's not here. And after the same matter for a certain period of time, I think that's six months, you can't perform with the same content again in the procedure. Third thing I'd like to say. Every marriage is subject to and is likely to be adopted and considered in order to live. How he lives in life depends, in particular, on those who carry it out. I think that some of the colleagues who discussed also said that the good solutions that were in the current law, due to non-implementation or different interpretations, were also used negatively. I think that the provision in this law, which defines that in relation to the organ's silence, that it is a good solution, will prevent these solutions when today they pleaded when they said they waited either two months, 30 days or 15 days. I don't think that's the point, and this will remove this provision. Discussions on what is happening with the acts that the municipalities have had in the procedure, as if some would not read Chapter 22, which discusses the validity and modification of existing municipal spatial acts. I think that no congregation that has led to some level of procedure on the basis of concluded contracts for the preparation of these acts has been thrown away or with a shovel, but will be able to continue one after it has been said, if they have already had a public decomposition, say they continue after ZUREP1, those who have not, I hope to say that this law does not say that what they have already collected, and I do not know what they will throw away, but they will only upgrade, but not after ZUREP1, but after this law that has been discussed today. And that's it. I think I said something in the presentation of the Group's position around the profession. Today we will have one more item on the agenda, which I hope will have a positive decision. All the profession opposes, yes, of course, the snake pussy if you step on her tail.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Well, all of us who have listened to the debate so far, at least that's what I think, could draw one summary. Those who know very well the current ZUREP, the existing legislation, all the problems that this legislation causes us, and those who have examined the proposed legislation have mostly discussed the good aspects of the law and those that may not be the most ideal. Those who do not know the existing ZUREP - I don't know, maybe they have studied this more - have discussed a letter or an initiative sent by some societies or institutions. Look, I have to say that I was very pleased last time that we did not adopt the proposal that came from these societies or institutes and we did not withdraw the item from the agenda. Some of us know who's hiding behind this, there's contractors, there's designers. See if anyone wondered why for four years no congregation had adopted a spatial order. We heard a lot of answers today, perhaps none of them mentioned, but said colleague Zalokar Orazmova how much it costs. Some congregations, which have well - arranged spatial plans, would not worry, even put the spatial order under the roof. But when I was doing these calculations so quickly, you know, under 100,000 euros of spatial order you couldn't get under the roof. A colleague mentioned 80 million tolars, or if she took one average, it was about 10 to 15 billion. Listen, this is tax money. And if this means that appropriate spatial documentation could be accepted for at least half of that value, today we can ask ourselves where this tax money is going. Why are these prices? Because there's no competition. There is no competition, however, because the former government has set up such a huge project that we in Slovenia are unable to do it. Today we can ask ourselves, these design organizations or some individuals - why they have yachts, why they have everything else. When I was working in the development of a manufacturing company, I was an inventor, and I don't know what else, I had a little more pay than a respected Mr. Gatekeeper. Today, as we go through this bureaucracy, we can ask ourselves where the taxpayer's money goes. In these days there is a very topical issue of the province, and we wonder very much what additional bureaucracy means. An extra bureaucrat, a billion more, but someone's probably going to get some kind of job. Maybe the unemployed one, too. On such matters, we are now very much talking here about how the existing legislation or the existing law was ideal. I wasn't crazy enough to order a spatial order for the Logatec Congregation. I didn't order it. We haven't done anything about it until today, and I think I did the right thing. If we have fought very hard for additional financial resources in recent years to be able to carry out the tasks that municipalities must carry out under law, and perhaps some more on certain investments, then we certainly have not fought for the money that this government has provided us with, thanks to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Minister Žagar, and especially the Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk, that we will give this money for this paper, which we will put in the drawer in two years' time, or we will finally find that we do not really need certain matters. I don't know how many TVs you know are professional. What professional basis was required under this legislation? For this reason, today, I have explained for the last time, some have lamented because under the new legislation, or, for the last time, the minister has put them on the sidelines, I would be happy to see that there are still some who may have waited a little, 2 or 3 years, and the congregations will determine whether some other experts should be called together when the professional basis is being prepared for the so-called spatial plan or what the state is preparing in the framework of the State Spatial Plan. From this point of view, I have examined this legislation, which I have examined very well before us for the third time today, but I also know the existing legislation, and I think it is a good step forward. It's not all perfect. I know that the question is whether it will go in time all within these deadlines as planned, but the matter resolves, certainly eliminates, the shortcomings and weaknesses of the existing law and simplifies matters. But I have to be honest with you, given how much I've been dealing with this, it's not like there's any fun or whatever they say, it's spatial planning. I still say it is much more important for local communities. We should or should expect to discuss much more about the building law than about this law, or we should discuss more, because, if there are no real solutions there, it can present us with major problems from the point of view of certain investors, that we will also be in the local community, I would say that investors will also be able to obtain building permits. I'd like to do it again. I firmly believe that by 2002, 2003, when this new legislation was adopted, a number of congregations had done nothing on this segment. Then you give them that kind of law. What about now in the four years since they couldn't do anything? During the drafting phase of this document, it has been found that there are still additional ones coming along, and you need these professional bases, and so on, just as this law has prescribed. A new law will cause confusion - I don't see any confusion. In the transitional provisions, if you read them, if we accept this amendment, if I believe that the amendment is somehow important, it is important that we accept it, but we will not create something revolutionary by doing so. It's all written. Those preparing spatial documentation under the existing law will continue or would say, those professional bases they have prepared will be included here. But it is true that, unfortunately for Mrs Zalokar Orazem, no money will be returned to them, and that is true, and that is true. How much did the municipality of Domžale invest in the preparation of a spatial plan under existing legislation? And some radical overhaul of existing laws. What radical reconstruction? I see that this is actually what was ahead of the spatial order, I will say, a little more adjusted time and needs. And once again, let's simplify things, because we had something like this before. And I'm gonna end up supporting the law. There's only so much I can say at the expense of this marriage. Once again, I say that certain things might be simplified and then I would commend him even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues present at the Hall! Otherwise, I don't know where the predecessor would put me, which group of debaters. But I'm sure I don't know where to put him either, so this dilemma will remain open. With regard to the amendment of the legislation. You know, when we talk about how urgent it is, I share an opinion with those who claim that it is necessary to change legislation in this area, as all other legislation needs to be adapted to time and new challenges. And if we asked people today, did some quick mini-examination and asked them if they wanted to intervene in legislation in a way that would make the procedures simpler and faster, a very high percentage of respondents would reply yes. But to the next question, if they asked them whether they agreed that this would also open up the possibility that the process would be faster, but not necessarily better, one of those pollers who said yes would probably move at least among the undeclared, if not among those who would say they disagree. The urgency of amending this law, or this new law, is also justified by the proposalers' reasoning that these changes will allow us to intervene more quickly to the point where these changes will also allow those activities announced by government representatives - now we are talking about the third development axis - and now they are somehow questionable. And if we adopt this law, the promises can also be realized. Very nice and good. But I am sure that these promises were made when these laws were not available or were in sight somewhere. I do not agree, however, that those who point out that the law is not conceived, that it is not exactly what they would like to be warned by the profession - and I will not comment on this letter, there are always experts on the one hand and on the other hand, where they are justified and others oppose - but that those who warn us then bear the blame for not being carried out on time. Of course I don't agree to that. I also do not agree because the government is shaping this development policy and most in Parliament are adopting laws. Many have been accepted by those who were not supported by the opposition. Of course, he also has a smaller share of the responsibility. I would, however, like to ask the Minister about the exploitation of mineral raw materials when adopting this law. Let's just say that I will be quite precise, article 208 of the Mining Act states that, by implementing this Mining Act, it is a permit to intervene in a room to take account of the location information from which research or exploitation of a particular type of mineral raw material is permitted on a particular land. I would like to know what act will replace this location information in this case and what it means to intervene into a space, say where this is regulated by the Mining Act. More and more he warned that the wounds in nature caused by quarrying are greater than any other that actually occur in this regard, including in the production of energy. For example, I would like an answer, because those who are dealing with it remind me of this and also want a very clear picture in the future of what will happen in this area or what acts will govern these matters. But I agree with the Magi debate. The exercise, which talked about the need to give a lot of thought when it comes to giving the country the opportunity to intervene in a place where we are also aware of the shortcomings or traps or ferrets that local communities may encounter when deciding on the individual uses of space. However, I would ask the Minister to answer this question in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Weber or Minister, do you want a word? Here you go, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I would briefly answer Mr Kontić's question. Only with regard to the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Location information as an instrument is information - this was this problem, including valid solutions to your question. First, it is necessary that such an area is defined in an act of the municipality, then the Law on the Construction of Objects with an Instrument called the "Allowment for intervention into space" will define it and thirdly, and then the Mining Act can enable either for research purposes or for exploitation. That's the way to go. At the first presentation of the law in the National Assembly, I have already said exactly what is the purpose of the instrument of location information to date in some of the changes to the law that are still coming. One of the grounds, however, is the change in the law, the present law, which we have before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u57	Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you. I note that some of the dilemmas or warnings in this general debate have not been clarified, or remain in force, which will lead to the fact that in Slovenia, after the adoption of this law, we will no longer have a single plan for intervention into space. Indeed, the congregation will be able to decide that the state will draw up a national spatial plan for it. That's one solution. Where, then, you will be able to obtain a building permit and build on the basis of the State Spatial Plan. The municipality will be able to decide whether or not it needs a municipal strategic spatial plan. Hence, it is no longer necessary to think about strategic solutions, what a vision of the development of an individual congregation should be. You can skip this phase and decide to have a municipal spatial plan, where you will try to resolve only those narrow partial interests in a settlement, with some interested person who wants to intervene in a space and thus accept a spatial act. In the end, when you accept it, you won't even know exactly what you've accepted, but you've just accepted something that's actually very narrowly interested in some area. What a vision of the development of the congregation it will be very difficult to understand from such a document. The second is a very dangerous game, if I may say so, this jurisdiction of the State to decide for itself what will happen and how it will interfere with the premises of a particular congregation. Such indiscretions, I think, in this system, when we talk about it, the municipalities should really be the ones that are most important for spatial development, when we talk intensively in the provinces, we actually don't touch them in this legislation, but we forgive a wide range of possibilities for thinking about this level of spatial planning, which I can conclude is that this sixth law on landscapes, which is actually supposed to talk about what should be carried from the national level to the provinces, in fact, for this area of spatial planning, is not clearly cleared within the districts or within the government. It is left to some agreement between the mayor and the minister as to how some things we will try, whether with more municipalities and the country, or with one municipality and country, to arrange and we will say that this is some kind of regional planning. A whole series of different procedures, and it will be very interesting to see sub-laws that will have to give a clear answer. If the municipality decides to regulate its spatial development with the State Spatial Plan, then I expect from the sub-laws that they will fully carry out the procedure, what in this case. Then the same goes on. How if the minister and the mayor agree that this will be some kind of common spatial act. Whether to run according to the rules of the State Spatial Act or to run according to the rules of the Municipal Space Act. And of course, in the case that we have more than one congregation, which is not even a province, but there are more than a few, it is stipulated in the law that there will be an agreement on how this procedure will be defined. So the promises that in a very short period of time we will be given sub-legislative acts that will define all these procedures, I think, are very unrealistic. I return to this, as I have already mentioned on behalf of the parliamentary group, that the solution from this problem is actually that part of the Spatial Planning Act, which speaks of us being able to change spatial regulatory conditions, that is to say, now existing spatial acts that have been prepared in the old legislation or in the legislation before the Space Regulation Act and the Construction Act. Here we will try to fill these gaps, which will arise both at the time of the preparation of spatial acts and also as regards the need for professional guidance to intervene into space. To talk about the fact that professional foundations are unnecessary because experts serve when they do them, I don't know, I think that if we are already talking about having our universities, having our institutions, then we need to make it possible to work and connect universities and science with practice. In fact, this law leaves this knowledge on the very third track and goes on with some narrow practice. And I think that at least I don't know any strategic document in the country that would be so written that there would be no cooperation between the institutes, between universities and between the economy, and if I stayed in the area of spatial planning, there would be no cooperation between the ministry, the municipalities and all those who wish to carry out these procedures very correctly. This breakthrough is very dangerous and if we want to weaken universities, if we want to discourage knowledge, if we want to reduce resources for the development of these institutions, then it can be one of the guidelines. But I'm sure this direction isn't right. That the knowledge we have needs to be exploited and incorporated as much as possible into spatial planning. If we can do this, we will also have much less problems with implementation and when an investor decides to invest. On the basis of these arguments, I can still see that there are really more open questions when this law is passed than if it were supplemented by existing legislation and adapted to some of the known facts that have arisen in these procedures. Why, for example, few comments or relatively few comments came at some stage by the municipalities on this legislation. For a simple reason: you were preparing spatial plans under the existing law, someone was saying, "You don't have to think about this legislation anymore, we're going to make a new one," which you don't even know what it's going to be like or what it's going to bring. What's your position? In fact, it is only your interest to prepare, as soon as possible, a space act of the highest quality and I do not think it has been in fact during this period. However, even with these comments, which we have repeatedly mentioned today, by eminent experts in spatial planning, the community of municipalities has also made a number of comments to this law, and these many comments have not been taken into account. The comments of the Communities can also be taken into account in these comments. If we draw the line under the satisfaction and interest in the adoption and quality of this legislation, then this satisfaction is reduced, I fear only and only, at the moment, those few people who are obviously working on this law, and all others are not allowed to try to force their thinking. If this is to be reflected in practice in such a way that there will be more dissatisfied than satisfied, then I really do not see any reason to support this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u60	A lot of things have been said here today. When a person listens, I have to say that I have come into personal doubts many times - whether I know things well enough or know them well; I wondered who prepared this law, whether they were preparing a law for a purely XY person, or whether the ministry has no profession to prepare the law. But the fact that it comes within the profession and all the professions, to different views on different things, I think it's clear to everyone. I see only the need to talk, it is said, but it is necessary to listen to all professionals and find the best solutions in the current situation for the current needs that exist with us. I think it's about ZUREP, because I had the feeling that we were at first reading, at second reading, more or less all of us. Although we are not professional, but so we have heard from our environment; that things do not go; that things do not flow, that time runs, that needs in local communities are great. And I am glad that the needs are great, that this Slovenian development actually forces us to do something if we want to ensure those basic needs that we are obliged to provide for our comprehensive development in Slovenia, and especially for economic and other development of prosperity in Slovenia. The existing legislation, although it was as high of expectations as it might be for some today, but practice has shown that it is too demanding, that procedures are too long and not least, as Martin stressed, I think it is right to say that the price for the preparation of these acts was too high. A number of municipalities, a couple of mayors, explained to him that their budgets simply did not allow them to go into the preparation of spatial acts, because they simply could not afford such a huge burden. And if we try to achieve only these three objectives, which are also the most stressed, simplification, faster adoption and cheaper acts, I think we will be very successful. But it is, I must say, I am joining this, we must not forget the profession in the sense that, in this account, these three factors are supposed to be the ones that suffer the profession to make decisions that would later prove to be no good. Therefore, I must say that I take the letter of this professional and civil society, which has been given, very well-intentioned. It is right to draw attention to the things they say, even in the light of the legislation before us, their comments. To try to take them into account, all that is good, appropriate and feasible, to try to take them into account when adopting this legislation, thus allowing one quick and sufficiently good and professional preparation of plans. I myself have worked in the field, otherwise in the geodesic service, and I must say that we have never been quick enough for those who wanted to carry out interventions into space. Too slow were the planners, so slow were the surveyors, both the municipalities, then the administrative units by issuing permits. And I actually understand, even more, the current potential investors, when every day in this globalised world is very important. And if we can find the right way, I know that this is very difficult, between what pressures and wants to achieve development and capital and what we all have to fight for together, it is said that we will not destroy our Slovenia, that we will not allow the unwise use of space, which is a great danger because capital is very, very aggressive and the danger is that sometimes others will also succumb to it. I say we really need to look for the right path, the right measure. I have already personally said that I support the law, especially because there is one acceleration to be done here, because there are many projects waiting for them to be able, if I repeat it again, this third development axis - it may sound too much to stress it, but from this third development axis, especially from the road in the Silesian Valley and in Koroška, we really expect a lot. We are confident that it will create a new impetus for investment, economic development. In fact, if we don't get to this in due course, Mom's not going to compete. For example, our Gorenje, one of the largest companies in Slovenia, is actually in a very, very difficult position because of this bad road connection we have to Velenje. And I'm sure the spatial planning law will speed things up. However, it may be right for all of us to follow all the warnings that will appear, and if necessary, we should also take a quick approach to changing some urgent matter. But once again, I would like to draw attention to the laws that follow. It is called the Construction Law; let us try to achieve that the profession is talking, listening, and drawing out the best that will be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you. Does the proposer want a word? No, then I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28.3.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Government and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 2 and the amendments to this Article. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up? Mr. Barovich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government! In the Slovenian National Party, we are still firmly convinced that the original article was the original article, I am speaking, but not then the article in the proposal for the Spatial Planning Act is correct. That's what we want to bring back. The point is that we want the text in Article 24, paragraph 1, in which the word "state spatial plan" is not released. Why is that? In terms of what is building land: there is a plot or several plots of land or parts thereof on which a building or plot of land is built, which is designed with a State spatial plan or a municipal spatial plan for the construction of buildings. That's the text of our amendment. We're adding to the state space plan. We understand this quite simply. So if we eliminate what's in the bill, we eliminate the state spatial plan, that simply means that where the owner of the state of the building land is not there and there is no construction. And to complete this story in connection with the Funding Act, I can bring you proof. It's very simple. The country owns mining assets in the municipality of Trbovlje-Hrastnik, which were already transferred to the farm farm before the mine closed. This is only a comparative story that will be passed through Article 24, paragraph 2, if adopted as it is, happening peacefully. But you know, not just in the Bellies in Hrastnik, somewhere else. The country is being eliminated, there is no building land there, and no one else can build there. So now the state is going to shake down everything she thinks is right and good-bye. It'll be their building plot under an excuse. There'll be a road here in 527 years. We don't like this shit unless you convince us otherwise. I suggest you pay attention to Article 2, paragraph 24. Be careful, don't sit down, or I hope I get a very precise explanation that I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you. He wants a minister? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u64	Just for a little while. Dear Members and Members! With regard to the amendment of the Government - it is essentially editorial in nature or explanatory in nature and follows the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It is bound by Article 93 of the current Law on the Regulation of Space, which refers to the relation to the public benefit which must be shown for leniency, and therefore proposes such an amendment by the Government. However, as regards the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, it is necessary to recall that the extensive discussion in the second reading, when we and the amendment are just what you are proposing, has been deleted. Now you're proposing to bring her back into the marriage. In our view, the existing definition of building land is appropriate and is also fully consistent with the entire flow of the law itself. It is, in our view, also perhaps a misinterpretation of what it would mean if the amendment, as adopted in the second reading, were put into effect. Back then, we said that it was right from both a systemic and a practical nature that the National Assembly then adopted this amendment, and from then on, it felt like it was linked to the issue of a building permit for interventions into a space that formed spatial arrangements of State importance. But it's not. It is also not related to the fact that the State itself, conditionally stated, would forgive the payment of compensation for the use of unpaved building land. This is a fear or interpretation that will not exist in actual practice, so in our view it is a valid solution, as proposed by law, good and the Government of the proposed amendment does not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 2 and the three amendments? I reopen the possibility of applying for a debate on Article 2 and the three amendments to this Article. Mr. Webber, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u66	I have already pointed out in the second reading that it appears to me that the State will be in a position to issue a building permit on the basis of the adopted State Spatial Plan. However, the fact is that this law provides that the State Spatial Plan cannot establish a building plot. And what will be the basis for issuing a building permit if we do not have a specific building?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Maybe I was a little too clear earlier. Under the applicable rules, the use of holocaust land is not a condition for obtaining a building permit. This will not be an obstacle to the issue of a building permit; this is a misinterpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much. With all due respect to the Minister's efforts. Once again, if there is no word link in the text that the building plot is also determined by the State Spatial Plan and is intended to build buildings, it means that it is possible to build buildings only where the municipality is located, where the state, the state is no longer, there is no more building land, there is no longer the possibility of building. Once again, I say perfectly clear logic. And I'm just putting it, once again, on huge, thousands and thousands of square feet of state, mining property, land, and the story is clear. What would be built there and possible to build buildings will not be in this law, there will be no building land there and construction will not be possible there, except when the state gives it to the farm, there will not be any grass there, and the building land will be fine, on behalf of the country will sell. But it's no big deal. However, I fear that the agricultural land fund will be privatised. Then private individuals will buy their state property cheap and sell it dearly. That's what comes out of this. This is the first prerequisite for the Slovenian national party to oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 2? No, then I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 27 and on the two amendments, one prepared by the Government, the other by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Minister with the team! Dear Minister, in your previous session, you said, "I have excellent associates, I trust them completely and they are faithful and diligent." I believe that, and that's why you need to understand our amendment and also read it, because I believe that you're not a material from your mother's working body. If so, then this amendment would be respected and also proposed by the Government. Why is he going? In our view, the proposed law, such as it is, without our amendment, is contrary to the law. That also brings extra work to the Constitutional Judges, you know? Article 27 is contrary to, in our view, Articles 32 and 33. If you look at what you wrote in point 4 of this article: "The adoption of the State Spatial Plan is considered to have changed or supplemented municipal acts in work and for," and so on. So, actually, a fact. In Articles 33 and 32, you say that all public proceedings, decommissioning and so on, the possibility of comment and so on must be carried out. It's totally the opposite. I would ask you, like you have already been my colleague Barovic on your mother's working body, why the Legal and Legal Service has not given an opinion on this. That was said at the time, and thought was given. I think we can work this out. You cannot claim in one article that what you decide is so and nothing else, and then in another article you give the possibility that there is a public procedure and that there is also a public decomposition. If there's anything here today, we'll accept this amendment. And there's something else I'd like to tell you. If this is done out of negligence, workers for such negligence in direct production shall be liable in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. If they cause harm, and today we have a debate about this, which also costs something, they simply lose their working relationship, they stop. And we also need to transfer this responsibility to the law department and to the ministries that are preparing the laws. If they are poor, and if they are alerted to this in the home work bodies which consider this before the hearing in the National Assembly, and do not even take these comments into account, this is so much worse. So I ask that you fully comply with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to all: colleagues and colleagues, leadership and also viewers and viewers! With regard to Article 27, I have no problems, not with the amendment of the Government and not with the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. They both mean enriching and supplementing the marriage. I am interested, however, in the light of this article, and I expect if it is possible to get an answer - whether you expect such an article to facilitate the search for a location, for example, for regionally important projects, for such things as, say, a diving centre in Planica or another sports stadium or, say, a regional landfill of municipal waste. In the light of the amendment to this Article and to this Act, the status of the areas previously regulated by the wall plan has not yet been publicly decommissioned in those places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? So I'm reopening applications. Please register all those you wish to discuss so that you do not repeat your application indefinitely. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thanks again for saying that. By Article 27, the Government had tabled an amendment. At the same time, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party shall have an amendment. But if the amendment to Article 2 by the Slovenian National Party is not accepted, it is in fact incomprehensible that you have proposed this, because then this will really happen, which you are reminding us of. Since I believe that the Government's proposal is now good and still retains what is written here in point 5: "... by the implementation of the State Spatial Plan it is considered that the amended or supplemented municipal spatial acts are part of the area referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article...", which is, in fact, the areas of the State Spatial Plan. However, Article 32 clearly states, at least that is what I understand about public participation. And when the state adopts the State Spatial Plan, the public will be present. In fact, the adoption of the State Spatial Plan certainly also applies to that local community that lives there or that is tanning it. However, it is quite understandable what concerns the honourable Members of the Slovenian National Party have about the fact that, on the one hand, only the municipal spatial plan is mentioned, not the national plan. But this just solves this 27th article, in the existing 4th point you propose to delete, and now it solves it in this 5th point with the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, the replica? I see you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u78	Yeah, a replica because we were mentioned. Excuse me, Mr. President, for a moment. Read only the fourth paragraph of Article 27 in the draft law and read the amendment of the Government to Articles 27, paragraphs 4 and 5, paragraphs 4 and 5, you will see a significant difference. The second paragraph of this Article is not mentioned in point 4 of the draft law. That's a big difference. If you are referring to areas such as Mangart and so on, if you read the proposal of the fourth paragraph that we have amended - the law does not mention which blah, blah, paragraph 2, as it now reads in point 5: "... by the application of the State spatial act is deemed to be amended or supplemented by municipal spatial acts in the work for the areas referred to in the second paragraph of this Article..." - from another, but in the draft of this second paragraph there is no mention, means clear proof that we are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much. First, I just want to briefly explain the amendment to the government. As has already been said, part of the amendment is the result of the editorial process, since a new second paragraph has been inserted, this is one part of the amendment, but we are only making it more clear what the area of the State spatial plan represents, for those specific areas of the individual, in this case, in the State spatial plan covered by the spatial arrangements of State importance, which is then determined by the second paragraph of Article 28, so precisely that their boundaries can be determined in nature and shown in a land cadastra. For the purpose of this solution, the words "in each area" shall be deleted. However, as regards the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, I think that something has already been clarified. I would remind you of the argument - why we proposed this amendment, why we proposed an amendment in the second reading or why the Government then supported the amendment, as proposed by the parliamentary groups, because in the second reading the Government cannot be a proponent. The question has been raised as to whether there could be a conflict between municipal spatial acts or regional spatial plans, this is good to explicitly determine what happens to municipal spatial acts on the date on which the State Spatial Plan is adopted for the same area. That's what we solved with the solution back then. I am firmly convinced that this is a good solution and must be an integral part of this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u82	This article, with this fourth paragraph, supplemented by it, and now the proposed amendment to delete it, is one of the most controversial articles, for me. He simply says: The country is always right. Rule number one. Rule number 2: When a country is wrong, see rule number 1 - The country is always right.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u84	I will continue this debate with my colleague, Brickle. Article 27 speaks of the adoption of the State Spatial Plan on the basis of the timetable referred to in Article 26 adopted by the Government by the Regulation. We do not have any criteria in this law as to how this timetable will be drawn up or how this regulation will be formulated. In my view, there should be even a chapter that would only talk about a timetable for the preparation of state spatial acts. So, the government will be able to decide for itself: "We will start there, but at the other end of Slovenia we may not be able to do so for 10 years." There's no criteria. This seems to me to be a major flaw in both this amendment and this article and, of course, the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Maybe one more time. This is a solution that I firmly believe is rational, in view of the expectations of the interests of the congregations. What does that mean in practice? In practice, after the adoption of the State Spatial Plan, it will not be necessary to amend or supplement its spatial act by itself in accordance with the prescribed procedure. There were also many discussions on this subject on the working body, so this amendment was born. You'll remember we talked about this a lot. Now, of course, it is not a principle that the state is always right, but it is a basic legal principle called the principle of general derogation. Hierarchically higher or later regulation is always such that it repeals the lower and the older. This is a legal principle which must be in force in the regulated legal system. With this solution, we have made it clear that by adopting the State Spatial Plan at the same time, it is good for the municipality, at the same time, to change or complement those municipal spatial acts for that part and for the area of State Spatial Arrangements. Last but not least, we already have one such arrangement in marriage. This is, I think, in Article 65, which stipulates that in this case the regional spatial plan replaces the municipal spatial plan in that part that touches this planned spatial arrangement. This solution is good for this law and must remain in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We have already discussed this a lot in the second reading, and I do not understand why there is no understanding of what is here, in this law, in fact, and what the amendment says. What I'm hearing is one big misunderstanding. On the one hand, it is not possible to link Article 32 and Article 33 with Article 27 in the manner stated here. Some other provision is made for paragraphs 32 and 33. They shall determine the participation of the public and the municipalities in the process of adopting the national location plan. Article 27, the new paragraph 5 or the present paragraph, points out that where the area is regulated by a national location plan, the actions are carried out on the basis of this act and not any other act. That's the way it is now. It's no different now. That's what happened, and that's how it has to be in the future. Or do some think that it would be right if the State adopted a national location plan in cooperation with the previous public in the municipality, of course, for the highway, that then on one part of this local plan the municipality could do something that it had planned in the past 20 years there? Do some feel that this is the right thing to do? Do you think that's right? Probably not. And if you think that's wrong, then this solution that's proposed here is right. There's something else I'd like to say on this occasion. It was said that no amendments were taken into account in the second reading by a group of unrelated Members. I didn't want to hear from the replica before. Of course it wasn't taken into account. He couldn't have been. However, none of the unrelated Members in the second reading was tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you. There's still some interest in this article. I am reopening my application for debate on Article 27 and the two amendments. Mr. Barovich, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much. First of all, what's right and what's wrong is highly questionable. For 20 years, some congregations tried to build something when they wanted to, but the country appeared. In this case, I agree with the congregation, not the state. Another time. You still don't understand. Just look, the fourth indent of Article 27 of the Law, because there's not much to read. Only four lines. And then look at the government's amendment made to the 27th Article in indents four and five, and you'll see that it's changed the content. And no matter what he's talking about, we can't change the content from day to day. It's not going, it's not going, we can't. And now in the fifth paragraph of Article 27, the Government, refers to spatial arrangements of State importance to the second, I do not know why, to the second indent. It's not working. It's different. The point is, there's a difference. Why is there such a difference? If we change for every amendment so that these differences arise, ladies and gentlemen, how can we think that we are all serious together? And second. I have asked that, with the call of the Legal and Legislative Service, we be justified in our claim that this article is inconsistent with 32rd and 33rd No one has responded. [[..]] We talked through each other, we don't have an opinion from the legislature, we don't have an opinion from the government, we don't have anything. I would be happy to say, colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, the Legal and Legal Service has shown you that you are wrong. I have no proof of that. However, I publicly and loudly ask for an opinion on whether or not there is a discrepancy between paragraphs 27 and 32 and 33. But it's so hard to win!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u92	If this amendment is not adopted, then I propose to the Minister that a State space act be adopted for the whole of Slovenia. You will achieve all of this: there will remain so-called savings at the level of the municipalities, and that is the point, Mr Minister. What you have introduced by this law is a state over the congregations. You have done so under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, you do so under the Law on the Financing of Landscapes, and you do so under the Law on Spatial Planning. And don't tell me we haven't put anything in the room in the last 16 years. We put it in, but at the consensus of the congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you. Any other interest in the debate on Article 27? It's not. Then we turn to the debate on Article 30 and the amendment to this Article. I'm opening the application. There's no interest. We are moving on to the debate on Article 36 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. What kind of interest? With your hand up, please. No, no, no. We are moving on to the debate on Article 36a and the amendment to this Article. Whoever wants to, please raise your hand. There's no interest in debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 38 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The Minister with the co-workers has previously overheared my question and because this amendment is similar and also relates to a more detailed arrangement, I would like to ask him again and ask for an answer. What is the status of the areas in the municipalities defined by the background plan and the public decomposition has not yet been carried out, nor has there been a plan for municipal equipment and infrastructure, in the light of this new legislation? In such cases, is public disclosure pending, or is the procedure initiated by a spatial plan already in 1999 continuing after an escape procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u96	So, Your Honor, I'd like to say why we proposed this amendment. It is linked to a clear definition of when the municipal spatial plan is the basis for the preparation of projects to obtain construction permits throughout the municipality, even in areas where the problems are detailed municipal plans, but have not yet been adopted, that is to say that until the implementation of these projects, it has not yet been possible to issue building permits for any type of facility and works, which is not acceptable. With this solution, we are putting an end to this situation, which is the proposed amendment of the government. I think you'll support him. But I didn't fully understand your question, whether you're asking for a plan, we didn't understand what you were referring to.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you. You'd like to discuss this further, Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. In the past, the municipalities have identified certain smaller areas that their status will be governed by a specially adopted wall plan. This wall plan has not yet been elaborated since 1999, when this has been defined to date. And now I wonder: Can we, as a congregation, discuss the matter under old law or simply wait for new instructions? This is a similar case as this article deals with these detailed spatial plans. However, we do not yet have a plan for the equipment of the municipal infrastructure for this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Secretary wants to answer? I'll see you later. We are moving to a debate on Article 42a and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We are moving on to the debate on Article 79 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u100	I will only briefly refer to my previous question, which was about the issue of a building permit in an area where it is not defined for construction. The answer was that you could obtain a building permit, whether it was for construction or not. The payment of a municipal contribution is linked to the issue of a building permit and also to the municipal equipment of such land. Based on the logic and explanation you gave, the facility will be able to stand on land that is not even communally equipped, how we will calculate the municipal contribution. It seems to me that we are sinking even deeper in the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u102	The law is very clear. He's talking about how he can only build on a communally equipped land. That's the content of the law. But we have talked so much about this subject that I can explain it in detail. However, as regards the question raised by the Member of the Magi. Saivica, there will certainly be a need to follow these new procedures, and the matter will remain the same as you have presented it and a new procedure will have to be taken into account as provided for in this applicable law. With regard to Mr Weber's question, however, I can only reiterate that, according to the rules in force, the goal-oriented use we call building land is not a condition for obtaining a building permit, so this is not an obstacle to the issue of building permits. And if we look at the current situation, the compensation for the use of unpaved building land is also not now paid for the land on which the spatial act provides that it is permissible to build economic public infrastructure or buildings, if we know which, health, social, child protection, education, culture, science, sport, public administration. So those objects that are intended for general use. That's the current solution. In addition, compensation for the use of non-walled building land is paid only for municipally equipped land, which means that it is possible for them to make connections to the facilities and networks of municipal and other public economic infrastructures. In the fact that the State Spatial Plans plan to plan, as a rule, the economic public infrastructure of State importance, represented in this case by facilities and networks intended for the operation of economic public services and other facilities and networks in general use, and that these plans only plan the connection of these facilities and networks to other facilities, that is to say, no land which is already communally equipped under the applicable rules, for these sites [[?]] . So, as it is said, the law is completely clear and we insist on our interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you. Does Mr. Weber want to discuss it yet? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u104	Only about clarity would I warn you. Minister, you read the "right" text yourself. And if there's a rule, it's hard to say that the text is clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you. There is no longer a desire to discuss, and we are moving on to the debate on Article 83 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u106	I oppose both the article and the amendment for a very simple reason. First, the proposaler allowed the release of a municipal contribution to housing, then he abandoned our objection to the prohibition of exempting compensation for health stations that we are building, kindergartens or schools. But to be able to stimulate the economy, not anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you. Is there any other interest? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u108	We have already had this debate partially in the general debate, but we can repeat it. This amendment clearly states that the municipality must provide for partial or total exemption from payment of the municipal contribution in a regulation called the decree, as a rule, in a municipal provision; it is also an undertaking under another legislation. It would be difficult to argue here that the solution is such that it is not supported. This means that we would also align a dictatorship that says "prescription" with the word "to"." With the proposed amendment to the second paragraph, we will again make it further clear that the exempt funds from the municipal contribution must be replaced by the unintended revenue of the budget and that the municipalities will be left to do so. As we said, we've talked about this a lot before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, do you still want to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u110	The council can't decide that because the law forbids it. But marriage is a higher rank, so it's not free will. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] decide whether or not to do so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you. Is there any other desire to discuss Article 83? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 84 and the three amendments to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian National Party, we wish to return the text of Article 84 to the original form of the proposal of this Act. Why? Because there are differences in point 3 of the proposal and in the original text that we now want with the amendment. Article 84 should have points 1 and 2. Point 1 makes it very clear that this is the proposal of the Slovenian National Party: A utility contribution is a dedicated source of financing for the construction of municipal equipment. The municipality shall determine the municipal contribution as a dedicated revenue by means of a decree adopting the municipal budget. That they won't say again that it's all the way it is, just that it's a little more sophisticated, I'm interested. The third point of the proposed bill mentions the assigned revenue in accordance with the rules on public finances and the municipal budget. We are certainly convinced in the Slovenian National Party that this is the original way in which funds will be returned through the country to the municipality, but at the will of the State, not according to the designations of the municipality in the original text as provided for in the amendment of the Slovenian National Party in Article 84 and do not derogate from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Here you go, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you. There was a very long debate in the second reading. As we now have an amendment to Article 84 by the government, I think that things have been summed up as most have discussed. We have three amendments to Article 84. What the Slovenian National Party has proposed is essentially the same as what the Government is proposing. For the article is amended in its entirety and then the article is amended in only two paragraphs. There's no other text. The point is that the municipal contribution remains a dedicated source of funding. The second point is to eliminate those unnecessary administrations which were previously recorded in paragraph 3 and 4 of this Article. For this reason, I do not support this amendment by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, because I believe that this proposal brings us back to those provisions that we wanted to remove. I don't think this proposal is necessary. There is no need for this administration, not even here in law. I think that, as the government proposes and then is identical with what the SNS proposes, it is right to adopt and to amend the law in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. In part, the amendment of the Government and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group shall be overlapped by deleting paragraphs third and fourth. There was a lot of debate at the last meeting of the National Assembly, and I think we have found together that there is no need for this to be legal matter. However, as regards the first two paragraphs, I have already explained in the debate why it is necessary that a municipal contribution is a dedicated source of funding. I believe that this is a good solution, and we have talked a lot before, that it is necessary to write down that this municipality, by its decision to adopt the municipal budget, establishes a municipal contribution as a dedicated revenue so that, because the government supports its amendment, it is understandable that it cannot support the other amendments that have been tabled to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you. Any other desire to discuss this article? No, no, no. We are moving on to the debate on Article 98 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We have thus concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or no later than 20 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the time of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Servants. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome the representatives of the government and give the floor to Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. A new law on public servants, which is short before you, but not insignificant. What's the big news? It brings: compliance with the Constitutional Court’s decision on the right of secretaries of the municipalities who were in this position by implementing the law in 2003 in the event of their discharge for non-criminal reasons. It brings: the placement of the Bologna Study in the public administration system, by requiring a second level of Bologna for the most demanding jobs for which we have requested the least university education in the old age. For those jobs in the seventh tariff group for which the previous high-level vocational education is required, the new requirement is, therefore, a new alternative to this – the first bologna level; that is, the most demanding places, the previous university education or the second bologna, and the previous high professional or new first Bologna level for slightly less difficult works in the seventh tariff group. The third novelty is the possibility of appointment of staff with higher education in positions of advisors requiring at least a higher level of professional education or after the new first Bologna, namely, higher education from the pre-reform period introduced by higher vocational schools and certain work experience. This proposal is based on the practical conclusion that many in the administration, in particular administrative units, tax administration and elsewhere, in the workplaces of senior referees requiring higher professional education work by people who are actually doing work similar to or equal to their colleagues working in the workplaces of consultants. This is some injustice in the system that needs to be removed and this novel allows this injustice to be removed. Another novelty; public job competitions will no longer need to be published in the Official Journal after amending the law, but it is sufficient to publish it at the Employment Office and on the website. This allows for a certain savings, we are not losing anything on the transparency of employment, because we know from practice that few candidates for employment read the invitation to tender pages of the Official Journal. They are mostly familiar with jobs - either at the employment office or on websites. Last but not least, the last introduction of the possibility of control over the abuse of the right to reimbursement of travel costs or transport costs to work and from work and hospital absences. With the beginning of this year, the government introduced a new arrangement for the reimbursement of transport costs to work and from work, in contrast to the previous arrangement, to reimburse the costs of transport from a location from which the staff member is actually driven and not necessarily from a location where it is formally declared and that travel costs are reimbursed by the most expensive public transport method, as was the case with the cheapest public transport method, which in many cases meant lower travel costs and brings after a review of the first three months of the monthly savings in the state administration at around EUR 1 million or at an annual level of around EUR 12 million or approximately 3 billion in old Slovenian tolleries. And this new regime raises the question of how to prevent abuse, how to detect abuse, and how this novel is intended. The supervision will be carried out by an authorised official of the Authority, i.e. a staff member, who will be empowered by the Chief of Staff to do so, but if the Chairman considers that this is more prudent due to non-human relations in the collective, for costs or for any other reason, he will be able to pass this work on to an external contractor, a professional, that is, a detective company. As I believe that a lively debate on this change will spark, I must point out in particular that the introduction of surveillance does not mean that the government stems from distrust of public servants. Surveillance is not a mistrust, because if that were the case, then only the fact that we have, say, inspections and inspections in this country means that we would not trust citizens, and we all know that that is not true. Control is intended for cases of suspected abuse. I will stress this more than once today, repeat it ten times or 15 times, if necessary, the government trusts the employees of the public administration, but we know that there is also abuse between so many and so many thousands, there is also fraud, and it is in everyone's interest to find out and prevent it in the interests of both employers and taxpayers, as well as in the interest of the vast majority of public servants who play by the rules and do their job honestly. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you, President. Nice greetings, including to the minister and his associates! At its 31st regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Servants as a work force. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. She made some comments on Articles 5 and 6 of the draft law, particularly in view of the urgent placement in the draft law. Otherwise, the representative of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia also participated in the meeting for a political system which supported the bill and also drew attention to some of its shortcomings, which they considered could be remedied. In an additional introductory explanation of the draft law, the participating representative of the applicant explained at the meeting the reasons for preparing the amendments and supplementing the said law. In addition to the above, a representative of the Union of State Authorities of Slovenia, Mr Drago Ščernjavič, who felt that the proposed amendments and additions to the law in their opinion lead to a slightly less stable position of public servant, in particular in the public administration. In their view, the introduction of additional checks on the fulfilment of labour obligations and the prevention of abuse in respect of the absence of a public official due to sickness or injury or the reimbursement of transport costs to work and labour should be based on a data analysis. He said, however, that the union does not advocate abuse, but believes that the role, powers and powers of the chairman have already been adequately worked out in the Law on Civil Servants and in certain sectoral laws. In the debate at the Committee's meeting, the issue of Article 1 of the draft law and the possibility of introducing detective control over the fulfilment of labour obligations and the prevention of abuse in relation to the absence of a public official and in this regard a very broad debate took place. Among the members of the opposition, in particular, the requirements for the deletion of that article were expressed, in particular on the grounds that the law does not provide sufficiently for the purpose of obtaining information about a public official, and on the basis of which it finds that there are grounds for suspecting that he is abusing the right to retention from work. On the other hand, most members of the Committee were also aware of the possible anomalies and abuses that occur in practice by workers, i.e. also by public servants, which were already possible to regulate under existing legislation, but apparently not sufficiently effective. In particular, it was stressed that the specifics of the public sector in this regard cannot constitute a barrier in order not to establish the same standard for all employees in the country. We also discussed the amendments given and a majority of support was given to the Committee's proposal for an amendment to Article 1. However, the amendments or amendments by Member Miran Purchas to Articles 1 and 2 have not been adopted. Member of the Parliament of Dr Paul Ganttar to Article 1 and Member of Mr Janez Drobnik to Article 3. At the end, the Committee voted on all the remaining articles of the law and supported them and also proposed to this respected assembly in support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with colleagues. In the parliamentary group, we support the solutions proposed by the Constitutional Court in Article 4 of the Act, namely that secretaries or directors of municipal administrations who have been resolved for non-criminal reasons receive a otherwise regulated right of departure, which was previously restricted. We also support the harmonisation of the law with the study levels and programmes set out in the Bologna reform study. We do not think that there is a meaningful change in Article 2, which restricts the publication of a call only on the website of the public authority or of the local authority, since this means the closure of the possibility of information and applications, but it is not the most important point. The most important point for us is our comment, and we have also tabled an amendment to the question of Article 1 of the law in relation to it. These are provisions authorising the Head of Authority to hire directives to accompany public servants on their sick leave or on their way to work. The government justifies this proposal by preventing abuse and savings in funds. Today we have heard from the Minister that this proposal is also based on confidence in public servants. The proposal, according to our assessment, is most relevant to the way in which staff relations should be regulated according to the ideas of the applicants. Individual infringements, which certainly exist exceptionally, cannot be regulated in accordance with existing rules on service relationships where all possibilities exist. They cannot be regulated by the authority of the chairman who, by interviewing, could assure mutual trust that, in the event of suspicion, it is ensured that the circumstances in which violations of the law would occur, no, the chairpersons need a detective to monitor, supervise and monitor the public servant in their place. This, in our view, is not in line with the logic of public administration, autonomy, independence, high professionalism, as well as the relationship that public servants should have with customers for whom they provide services, not building on each other's integrity and trust, but means strengthening hierarchical relations, mutual mistrust, fostering the mutual association of public servants and not the best relations in public administration, which the unions point out at one point worse, or making them worse. I believe that Mr Minister will point out several times today that he is building this law on the trust of public servants. I say in advance that I won't have to do it as many times as he's going to point out that he won't really convince me because it doesn't make any sense. Look what we've done with public servants in recent years. We have begun with a request for compatibility and have allowed for discharge for non-criminal reasons of an important round of public servants' managers. At the time, we warned that this would also have consequences for relations with lower jobs, this has been confirmed. We have reduced the rights that have so far been enjoyed by public servants from working relationships and have been more aligned with the rights enjoyed by private sector workers, despite the specific situation and tasks of public servants. In particular, as Mr Minister has mentioned, we have arranged a flat rate at the lowest costs for transport to work and are now introducing directives to monitor instead of doctors how they are in hospital. For us, these solutions are unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Greetings to the Minister with a co-worker and a co-worker! Greetings, too, I hope that in many ways concerned Slovenian public! Surveillance, mistrust, interference with privacy - these are one of the key words that adorn the bill that is being dealt with today. There is no doubt that the draft law violates fundamental human rights, the right to privacy. As a relaxed Slovenia, we want to control everyone at all times, everywhere. We've listed the apartments, the bathrooms, the bedrooms, and now we're obviously moving on. No one else can trust and interfere with human integrity and dignity. All this because of a handful of people, as Mr Minister says, who may be violating labour law. In the LDS, we do not agree to such supervision of public servants, even because of other human concerns. We have said many times that it is the freedom of an individual and the well-being of all, so, by doing so, let us say, it is a breakdown for a public servant of such importance, which is undoubtedly guaranteed by the Constitution. Because only with a certain degree of autonomy can the legal and effective functioning of the state administration be ensured. The professional independence of public officials is necessary due to possible political pressures, to which Minister Virant was reminded by the Constitutional Court once again if we recall the constitutional assessment of the Law on Public Servants in 2005. And yet, there are still some open questions to consider this proposal, which is before us today. There is no doubt that the law does not define the duration of the measure. While the employer has the right to exercise control, it cannot exercise this right indefinitely, since it is limited to the worker's right to privacy. It is also unclear whether the chairman will be able to cancel the employment contract at the time of the found breach, or only in the event of a repeated breach. We also wonder why the solution covers only public servants, but not officials. If the State authority or the holder of the public authority finds that an offence has been committed that is being prosecuted under an official obligation, it shall no doubt report it to the police. The abuse of the hospital or the right to reimbursement of travel expenses may be considered as an offence of fraud, abuse of an official position or unjustifiable use in the service. All crimes are prosecuted on their own by official duty. However, the law on detective activity allows for the activity of detectives only in the case of offences that are prosecuted in a private action. In the provision of detective services, the detective may not use the methods and means used by the public authorities in accordance with the law. It is also unclear how the chairman will prevent bullying by other servants. The question is why the use of detectives for the needs of state authorities is raised if the state itself already has a much larger number of state authorities and authorised officials who, of course, could carry out this control without paying it. The question of rational use of public funds remains open, as it will only be necessary to pay a detective. One such observation at the price of detective services can cost between EUR 146 and EUR 4173, depending on the case, complexity, longevity and so on. And I wonder, does that make any sense - on the one hand, we would save on meals, kilometers and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the As Slovenia is a member of the EU, it must also be aware that we have a free movement of labour, which of course applies to detectives, but in practice it is difficult for me to imagine that, say, foreign detectives will exercise control over public servants in Slovenia. In theory, however, this is possible and judicial practice also allows them to operate in our country. What do you say at the end? We've heard many times "Where's the order, there's no freedom!" Freedom is, of course, a very relative and stretching concept, but when we run into human rights, then the debate cannot and cannot be anymore. In short, concerns about inappropriate and disproportionate interference with fundamental human rights and a whole range of open questions are reasons why, in the LDS Club, on a proposal for a law that also has some good solutions, we will not give support unless, of course, Article 1 is deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thanks again. Good-bye. As there was also the most talk on the committee and even today in this Chamber regarding the new regulation of supervision, I should also start by presenting the New Slovenia Group. According to statistics of the Institute for Health Protection in Slovenia in 2005 we lost more than 14 million working days due to the hospital stock. Of course, most people who stay home because of sickness or injury benefit from the right to a hospital stock. Of course, it is also true that any rule confirms exceptions that use absence from work to, for example, perform other activities or other work that is not in accordance with the period they live in the hospital stock. Such anomalies also occur with the reimbursement of transport costs to and from work, and the public sector has so far been in a special situation in this area, as it has not allowed employers to have such control as in the private sector. With the amendment adopted on the home working body, the chairman of the body must, of course, if there are grounds for suspecting that the worker is abusing the right of restraint due to illness or for unjustified use of travel costs, inform the staff member first and allow him to comment. Only after this warning can the chairman of the action forward and authorize another public servant to collect information on the abuse to determine the actual situation. The measure must only be implemented for as long as the reasons remain, in the event of the absence of a hospital, this means a maximum of 30 days. However, according to the position of New Slovenia, it should be reiterated that this is not a matter of checking information on health status, but of monitoring in the event of abuse. The right to an assessment of the eligibility of absence shall be exercised only by the doctor. However, the Head of the Authority may use professional services of detective activity if he considers this to be more prudent. The most comments were made precisely because of this measure. Identifying the place and verifying the reality of the data is difficult to count as tracking and a measure comparable to measures, as some have said, to covert observation and tracing. Absolutely not. Control with the help of a detective is only one option, and we believe that a reasonable chairman will take advantage of all other options before and use this institution only in extreme cases, of course even if we take into account all the courses that have been completed and the additional education that they have acquired in recent years or have been able to obtain mainly from the field of human resources management. We hope that this will also result in the choice of the right approach before more restrictive provisions are applied. Of course, it is the most important prevention, namely the provision of a stimulating working environment, the rational distribution of jobs and, above all, equal treatment of all employees. Other amendments to the law further stipulate that the introduction of the Bologna Reform translates the level of education of career classes into Bologna levels. We also support this in the New Slovenia Group. In order to reduce costs, the obligation to publish public competitions from the Official Journal is transferred to the websites of the Ministry of Public Administration and also to the websites of local communities. It must also be important in this place to invite all those looking for employment to make particularly careful leaves on these websites and bases. In New Slovenia, we believe that the bill will bring more rational consumption of public funds, but this is not so important. The elimination of abuse, equal treatment of all civil servants and a good working atmosphere are more important.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u128	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Even Respected Audiences, Viewers in front of TV sets! I submit an opinion on the amendment of the law by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We adopt a new law on civil servants by means of a reduced procedure aimed at less demanding changes and legislative amendments. Indeed, the proposed law contains only a few articles with minor changes, but one of them, which relates to the new article 33a, has received much discussion both in the current proceedings in the National Assembly and in the general Slovenian public. This will also be the main topic of today's debate. In opening, let me say that we will support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We agree with the solution regarding the publication of the public tender and the establishment of the possibility to appoint a middle-class fifth career in the title of secondary vocational education, provided that this is provided for in the sectoral law. The latter is in fact only a record of what already exists in the case of professional soldiers. Complementary amendments to the law on recent amendments to the Higher Education Act were needed, which, in accordance with the Bologna Guidelines on Higher Education, passed a three-stage study. We may well recall the controversy at the time of the adoption of the novel of higher education law, when high school graduates, in particular, expressed fear of the level of education associated with the conditions of employment. The fact is that the law that we are currently considering also solves the comparability of old and new study programmes in the field of career classes of public servants in the only logical and correct way. Apparently, some fears were too much. The key and obviously also the most controversial amendment to the proposed amendment concerns the mandate of the chairman with regard to the control of abuses of the right to retention from work up to 30 working days due to sickness and the right to reimbursement of transport costs. It's clear that order must be. Each employer, including the State, expects its employees to exercise their rights or entitlements legally and honestly. This is expected to be the undisputed right of the employer, who must also be able to control any abuse of these rights. I must point out that, in the Group of Members, we believe that the existing labour law actually allows the competent in public administration to exercise control over the abuse of rights. From this point of view, the proposed amendment may not even be necessary. Let us take a concrete example so that we do not just speak in general. Most abuses are likely, at least in the past with regard to the enforcement of transport costs to and from work. With recent amendments, when all civil servants had to sign a detailed statement on the relation and costs of transport, the number of individuals who abused that right was likely to have decreased further. In addition, the dissemination of information on stricter control and control of this area also had an impact. In our opinion, there is little violation. It is likely that several abuses, in narrations, in the use of the increased volume of work and associated additions, at least comparative analyses between different national authorities clearly indicate this, as these show that some authorities have a large number of individuals who receive an allowance for the increased volume of work, while others do not have such cases. There are therefore many opportunities for inequality in other areas. If we go back to the case of transportation, suppose we have a public servant who receives a return to work from a place 150 km away and actually lives in a place where he has a job. Since the employer is aware of this fact, warn him and then order a verification of any abuse. This worker does not have a registered temporary residence and any citizen can move freely around the country, there are thousands of possible arguments why someone went to work from another place in the morning and the employer pays him the costs. We are therefore being asked a number of questions about the implementation of the proposed solutions, but also the possibility of detective control opens up the possibility of abuse. This is by definition possible in any control. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Regardless of these dilemmas, rationality, justice and legality are the greatest role models for public servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you. Ms Zalokar-Orzam will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u130	Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have considerable dilemmas in connection with the amendment of the Law on Public Servants, as in some of the groups of Members, mainly with a provision whereby employers in the public sector can also check with the help of detectives that their employees may not abuse the hospital's absence. All the other changes are not controversial and we support them. With this change, we feel that we are entering an extremely slippery and dangerous territory, both in terms of personal data and human rights and with the right to privacy. The argument that has been repeatedly used, when it comes to balancing the private and public sectors, has not convinced us. We might have thought earlier that this would have to be stopped in some way in the private sector as well as in the public sector. For in this, and no one has mentioned it yet, at least we are asked quite a number of questions. The first is certainly not the lack of confidence in doctors’ expertise, for no one, but no one gets sick leave without a doctor’s prescription. In this case, the main issue is not the lack of confidence in a public official who may benefit from it, but the question of not trusting in the profession, namely medicine and doctors who prescribe it. It also seems to us that, of course, this field, which I have said is a truly slippery terrain, can mean, earlier, it has been said, by the Minister, that there is a need to prevent abuse, and that it is not a lack of confidence in these employees, but rather to prevent abuse. Where, however, we have ensured that this matter will not be abused in another field, i.e. in the employer's field, in the field of detective control. Where's any security guard? There's not gonna be any abuse here. And a few such options have also been cited by the Information Commissioner, Natasha Pirc Musar, who otherwise considers this to be a suitable solution, but now points out examples of abuses and overstepping of powers by the detective. For in no way will it ever be possible to look at such sensitive personal information as a medical condition, such as what is the diagnosis, what medicines someone is taking, and, of course, what therapy is like. And in this sense, the question is whether it is a violation if, for example, someone is walking during a hospital absence. This is entirely possible in certain treatments. How will the detective find that walking is a violation or that walking is not a violation or abuse of a hospital absence? Maybe it's a walk for some people, even, I'll say, sort of therapy. This means that if he wants to get the exact data, he will simply be forced to access other data, including data such as diagnostics, prescription drugs and the like. Of course, these are extremely sensitive personal data that the employer has nothing to do with them in most cases. And it is also very funny that it is now planned that the worker’s chairman should have been warned or announced, and then he would have begun to exercise control. It seems kind of funny to us, so I have to say that unless this first amendment of ours is adopted, with which we propose that this matter be reconsidered, then we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable present and, of course, all those who accompany us. I will begin with a sentence that I believe is known to Minister Virant or will be known to him as "The greatest wealth of every business system is people," and the quality of public administration depends primarily on its employees, and here what is most important is my opinion, and I believe that Minister Virant, at least when he speaks. However, the treatment of people at work - a reform called Virant reform, by which this minister has undoubtedly become the largest reformist of this government, is at least going in a different direction. While I have tried to find in the coalition contract at least a sentence on the need to ensure quality working conditions within the public administration, which, I think, is once again an emphasis - on the first step or condition that Mr Virant should take into account. Even in actions, not just in words - if he has embarked on a project of friendly public administration. However, I will find phrases such as "the coalition will develop public administration as a service for citizens and businesses", "the whole sector must operate in an open and transparent manner", "public information on public administration costs will be given an absolute advantage even before the protection of personal data", "in a 4-year term, the coalition will reduce the number of employees by at least 3%" and three picks. The minister speaks one way, he does another. It's a force of populism, a respected colleague and colleague. The Minister is obviously well aware of how and what information needs to be launched into the public. This is also all that this country has from its own, I will say, the ability to manage this sector. It is, in my opinion, a lack of modern skills and knowledge, a modern, successful manager in this person who is leading the so-called reform of the public sector. Each new measure leads to greater restrictiveness. It began with the dismissal of workers for no false reason. Then we employed workers without adequate education, without adequate work experience, who were close to the governing policy. Workers began to bend visibly and clearly, and when I look only at the National Assembly, as part of the public sector, due to increased control, including political control over staff or workers, red tape has also increased, even though it should be reduced. The pressures and underestimation of workers are that common denominator of the so-called "Virant's" public administration reform, I hope to say on this site. Workers even have to sign a monthly guarantee that they do not cheat on travel costs and that the counterweight is simply a loss of jobs. As part of the reform, the mandatory publication of public competitions in public administration in newspapers or in the Official Journal shall be carried out. And not to list individuals, I will say, nonsense in the context of reform, allow me to touch only the most controversial in today's law. We're introducing private investigators into public administration. The minister said we don't introduce private detectives for lack of confidence in workers. I hope he doesn't repeat it at least nine more times, because then I'll hope to claim that the minister is hallucinating. I ask because I like them, too, but now I'm going to talk to a little bit of humor, especially the English detective episode: Did Minister Virant literally get too involved in the role, I don't know, Sherlock Holmes or his cynicism and ignorance really don't know the borders? Because time haunts me, let me just back up what I said. Minister Virant also received an international negative assessment, respected colleagues and colleagues. The World Bank on public administration reforms, we can read, warns that its reform reflects a lack of administrative culture and ethics, a highly hierarchical decision-making system, underestimation of the importance of education within public administration, and a major problem is the increase in politicisation. And I will end here and continue in the debate, because we have prepared an amendment that opens up this greatest catastrophe, according to my assessment, which, last but not least, contributes to the larger "mobbing" within the state administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group builds on this proposal by first supporting what is good in the law, namely the Constitutional Court decision or coordination with the Higher Education Act or the career system and so on. Then there are some provisions that we have concerns or that we do not actually feel necessary, and we set out how we will save some small change in such a way that we will no longer publish competitions for vacancies in the daily newspapers, and many who will be candidates for these jobs usually read these local newspapers in particular. And then there are those articles that we quite reject, which I mean the regulations that speak of detectives and trackers in the image of public servants. The DeSUS delegation has had doubts all the time, even during the drafting of this law, more or less loudly, and I can say that for a long time some members of other coalition parties have also opposed it quite loudly. Today we see that this is no longer the case, and I must admit that I do not know a preparation that has influenced a change of opinion. Perhaps later, the debate will show why this has occurred. We therefore object in particular to what it says about the need to introduce a new way of tracking people who are employed in public administration, either with private, private detectives. Remember, when we adopted the law on public order and peace, there was no favor to be given to private services. And that is to say that we are not thrilled to see public servants intertwine a network in which neighbors, colleagues, colleagues, employees in the same department or in the same administration would be caught like flies in a cod. We therefore oppose this first article and therefore will also oppose the law in its entirety. In fact, what this law provides for after we find that, in the introduction, the drafter writes that the main reason for the bill was to take account of the Constitutional Court's decision, and then not to mention it at all, for example, it was just a cover, so that some of the main reasons he found less pain. We can also see that later, other reasons that have come to the fore are mentioned as some additional reason, as something that appears in parallel. We also see when we talk about the principles that the first principle of applicants has been laid down, the most important principle of the protection of the privacy of public servants, which has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision, which speaks of something completely different and has nothing to do with the protection of the privacy of public servants, but that is a public road for us. Those we influence to determine whether they will be with us or not. The second principle is only the principle of economy and we see that we are "sparing" in the publication of competitions for vacancies. Not "sparmo" when the chairman can identify one or even more of the trackers from the public service, so that they can monitor someone for 30 days and ask, perhaps, what the case was presented in the preparation, the neighbors in the column, whether they might have seen another neighbor, whether he left this yard in the morning or not. And that's 30 times in a row, one, two, and I don't know which day it's all about, but it's going to cost a lot of money in that way. That's why we think that a system that we know from the history of two and a half thousand years ago is being established, that there was a very well-known king named Darius, that Darius had satraps, and because he couldn't be trusted with satraps, he had king's eyes and ears that also controlled satraps. I am afraid that this kind of mistrust and this kind of cross-eyed observation of colleagues would have been established.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Rudi Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The most recent amendment to the Civil Servants Act was made in 2005. The main objective of the changes at the time was to establish a more efficient service system that would enable the quality management of human resources resources and their effective involvement in the performance of administrative tasks. Notwithstanding the fact that the basic principles and solutions in the system of public servants are not changing, there are also some changes to this area that are being made in other areas, such as in the field of higher education in the field of study programmes and their classification. An effective service system is a permamental task, and legislation must also be adapted. However, amending legislation is not the only condition for an efficient and friendly public administration, but it is necessary. The amendment of the Law on Public Servants, which is under consideration, pursues several objectives, has several purposes, one of which is to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court which ordered the legislator to carry out a finding of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Simplification also of the public procurement obligation by establishing a mandatory publication for the public administration authorities on the website of the Ministry of Administration and for the other public authorities of their websites, but there is also the possibility of publication in the Official Journal and also in the daily newspaper. In addition, the proposed amendments provide for the possibility of establishing a different statutory education for the titles of the fifth career class, as an example, that the law governing the area of defence - which allows for the possibility of a soldier being a middle-aged person by now. The law also regulates the possibility of appointing public servants in the title of the third career class who carry out the same task in the light of the complexity and content, but who have different levels of education due to the change in the higher education system, i.e. higher or higher professional level. In view of the principle that equal pay must also be applied to equal hard work, a minor addition to the law is proposed to allow for equal treatment of such public servants. The bill also contains an amendment to the required levels of education because it is due to compliance with the law governing higher education. In doing so, it is also necessary to respect the principle or to provide an adequate basis for equal treatment of public servants, taking into account the principle that equal pay is necessary for equal difficult work and substantively equivalent. The promotion system is also important in this regard. Career systems are directly linked to promotion in the workplace, which means a relative periodic increase in the salary of each public servant, which is linked to two conditions: the working time of a public servant in the public sector or in a specific place of employment and an assessment based on the public service assessment system. The systems of progress in relation to evaluation are comparable, with some positive effects, such as delayed progress for a certain period of time. In some European countries, this is also the case. However, it certainly raised the most dust, without justification, a proposal that would provide a systematic basis for the exercise of control and control of absence from work due to illness of up to 30 working days and for the control of eligibility of transport costs at work and from work. The matter has come so far as to speak only of how one will observe one another at the time of the amendment of this law. Every control is accepted with discomfort, but it is so necessary that control is necessary for infringements and can only be feared by violators. It does not even apply to other public servants, so any concern is also superfluous. In doing so, it must be acknowledged that a breach by a single employee creates discomfort and discomfort throughout the system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28.3.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, which are substantively the same. I am opening an application to discuss this article and the amendments. First of all, I will give the Ministry's representative, who has also volunteered for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you. As already stated in the introduction, the article you want to amend does not express any skepticism or lack of interest in public servants, quite the contrary. It will probably have to be repeated again today that violations are likely to occur in such a system as the national administration, and in practice it has also been shown that infringements occur or abuse. Article 33a makes it clear that an additional mechanism - for supervisors, of course - can in these cases, when they have some information, further substantiate a fact or determine whether these statements are valid or not. There is no way we can agree that this is a measure, as has already been presented here today, to be followed for a month and to interfere with human rights. And that the law on detective activity lays this groundwork for intervention. Finally, we must ask ourselves what the legislator had in mind when this law was passed when a government adopted it a few years ago. That is to say, those who have adopted this law and given the legal basis, the legal framework for the work of detectives, are today asking and questioning the content of this law and say that it can be an instrument of abuse. Far from it. Perhaps another word, two about the thesis or the view that it is an equalization of the situation with the economy or with the public sector. It should be said that this option already applies to a large part of the public sector, to an institution, to an agency, etc. It does not apply solely to the public authority. So it is not only an equalisation with the economy, but it is essentially a basis for a specific public sector to be placed on the same footing. So we're also going to include these state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Žgijner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. I will certainly support this amendment, Your Honor. Last but not least, we heard in the presentation of the position, but I think that the very last presentation was one of the coalition representatives, the largest coalition party that said that surveillance was important. Yes, but I'm asking what kind of control and to what extent control, such control in the form of private detectives, is allowed in the government. You know, when I read it, you won't believe it, but under this same book or manual for public managers, this man who is actually the author of this law, Dr. Virant, and in there, he writes instructions on how to be a good manager. Mr. Virant, what you do is contrary to what a good manager does, and you are undoubtedly the manager of the public administration. I hope you agree with that. You're the one. And, you know, allow me just one sentence from this manual. "What a leader." So, "good, capable, successful, modern, modern manager." Such a leader is therefore "focused not on directing and controlling employees, but on promoting self-initiativeism among his staff and supporting their ideas." Education for staff also goes in this context, but your actions and actions of the entire state administration go, unfortunately, in the other direction, also in the National Assembly, to which you, unfortunately, have a large or excessive influence. And as we have heard today in one of the presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups that, in fact, the number of patient stocks is increasing. Yes, I agree with that, but I am sorry that these colleagues were not present at the meeting of the Committee of the National Labour Assembly, the family, social policy and the disabled, where we talked about mobbingo or so-called psychological violence in the workplace. The minister wasn't there either, but I'm sorry he wasn't there. For the so-called psychological violence, which is fueled by the pressures of superiors, the abolition of the possibility of education, is a continuous instruction that goes only and only in the direction of restraint, if you will, even the self-initiative of officials. Minister, I hope that at least a fraction of what I'm saying will come to your attention or your consciousness if you want. I am sorry that you were not on this committee, because at this point we could now insist that this work, unfortunately, is going in the direction of mobile phones, pressure on workers, and that this also increases the number of patient stocks because workers avoid or also get sick and get seriously ill because of such inadequate working conditions. And unfortunately, Minister, unfortunately, I have to confirm, believe me, I know what the differences between two years and a little earlier today were, at least in the framework of a national assembly that belongs to the public sector or public administration. Sorry, Minister, the situation is not improving. And if you call it a friendly state administration, I hope you believe at least that much of yourself, I don't know that you won't lie to yourself if you're already deceiving the general public. And allow only and just a few more words. The law of private investigators would be in direct contravention of Article 13 of the Law on Detective Activity. Unfortunately, the law enforcement department has forgotten to warn. "The detective shall not carry out any detective activity for domestic and foreign security services and public authorities or for political parties." According to my assessment, this is another element of the so-called mobile, Minister. Let me finish this first part. That kind of work, Minister, is harmful, bad, wrong. I'll say you're sorry, Minister Virant, but it's a hierarchical, politically controlled administration. These are also data coming from international institutions. I hope you've read these analyses. Last but not least, an article was published days ago in a newspaper under which Dr. Bulgarian signed. This is data, international data. And this data shows that unfortunately there is a reform of the public administration, which you have already quietly undertaken in the previous mandate, when you were not at the ministerial level, that your reform is going in the wrong direction, unfortunately, beyond the practice of European developed countries in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll start at the end where my colleague ended up. Disagreement with the law on detective activity - today I have been able to see on the Ministry of the Interior website whether there is already a change, so that it will be very short-term incompatible, but I guess we will not change the whole law because you want to follow, according to my data, you will correct me, two percent of those public officials who are supposed to - I'm supposed to talk, not who are using the hospital for any purpose. Among other things, yesterday we talked about the pouring out of the Constitutional Court, you are probably so aware that this law is also subject to a constitutional assessment by trade unions that I believe that you are so well coordinated that they have already decided on the constitutional review of this law today, in so far as it will go forward as such. The detectives and the pursuit - several times both on the committee and today at the meeting, I have heard that this is a persecution, tracking and detecting of a real disease that is disturbing only for the offender. I think it's disturbing for everyone, even for someone who's not a violator at all. The one who doesn't take advantage of the hospital will be followed by a detective who will take a picture of him, even when he goes to the bathroom if he has to. I think it's a little inappropriate, and it seems to me that for a man who doesn't actually hide anything to be sent to him as a tail detective, it's even more disturbing than the one who hides something. As far as the article itself is concerned, which is now set up so that, as far as abuse is concerned, a detective can be hired. If it's an abuse, we don't need a detective anymore, believe me, it's an abuse, and then it's also justified to lose a job. Even more banal, stupid, hallucinogen is the fact that you will take advantage of or allow yourself to take advantage of the hospital to not come to work, informing: "Sorry, my dear colleague, a member of the public administration, and from now on we will be following you." And believe me, with pneumonia, he's gonna go to the football game because you're gonna follow him. There are no idiots like that. He'll throw himself into bed, 14 days he won't get out, and then you can prove to him what you want, and you can take his job if you have any more evidence for it. But you didn't think maybe in this direction that within all of this strong public administration, so educated, trained and kind, you could look inside for maybe people who could do this work, or you decided maybe for the principle that we could see in the media that instead of the employer, what a detective would bring home a book, and say, "Now you've lost your job." Is that a principle? Is that nice? You have written that we cultivate a friendly public administration. Is that nice? I think it's kind of nice that one of these bad guys gets invited to tell him what he's done wrong, where he's abused, even maybe as an employer, I'd offer him a coffee, and then I'd say, "Goodbye, you see, because of these abuses, but unfortunately you won't be working here anymore." No, you're gonna nail an ex-cop who's gonna be doing detective work to fly after him in the fifth, sixth, seventh, second floor, watching him lay down when he fell, took the pills, didn't take the pills. I can't believe you call it "friendly public administration" and I can't imagine, Mr. Minister, what only a detective will do if a woman is at home due to gynecological problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. In recent days, I have heard many times from Minister Virant that it is only an equalisation with the private sector and that public servants would be privileged to those who are employed by a private employer. Undoubtedly, it is at first sight and populist, if you want, of course, for the kind of talk you like and the minister will surely pick up another political point with such demagogism. But things aren't that simple. The Minister also argues that this will be taken into account only in exceptional cases and where there will be reasonable suspicion of abuse. The proposer did not substantiate this proposal with any analysis of the actual situation, nor did he say why the existing mechanisms and possible measures do not produce results, why they are not effective. For example: already there are inspection services, the possibility of initiating disciplinary procedures and so on. No, the applicant introduces another measure which has a disproportionate impact on the privacy of individuals, in this case public servants. The Secretary of State has just assured us that it is not an infringement of human rights or of the right to privacy. I just believe she's going, and the profession has already said she's going. Likewise, if we have read certain judgments, both from the Court of Justice, from the Supreme Court, from the Constitutional Court, this is undoubtedly true. The applicant shall not weigh between the right to privacy of a public servant and the power of the chairman to control the worker's absence from a hospital, for example. It is not specifically stated that such a power is permissible to a minimum or to the most urgent extent, which still allows the protection of the opposite right, that is the right to privacy. Therefore, at least, as is necessary, the law should provide for a certain period of time to be allowed to carry out such checks. Article 1(1) states that the chairman may conclude a written contract with a detective or his organisation, irrespective of the provisions of Article 13(2) of the Law on Detective Activity, which, of course, provides that no detective activity may be directed or carried out against the State Administration. Is it really that simple? In my knowledge, this is completely at odds with the basics of professionally correct legislation. I wonder who will oversee the leaders in this way, since they are not all completely immune to abuse, for example, the right to reimbursement of transport costs to work and from work. By the way, with regard to the abuse of this right, you're going to want a research activity you don't want to lead a detective into following a public servant, which a detective can't do, he can't do. However, in all of the possible abuses that we are talking about, as we know, crimes of fraud, abuse of an official position or unjustifiable use in the service, which are already considered to be State authorities and organisations with public powers to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under an official obligation. Therefore, if it is suspected that a public servant has committed a crime of fraud, abuse of an official position, or unjustifiable use in the service, this must be announced to the police in every context. In summary, the proposaler introduces only minor changes as regards the introduction of detectives, which, of course, raises a whole range of questions, and we have not heard any significant answers here today. And I'd add this to the end. In all of the recent amendments to the Law on Public Servants, we have come across the intention of getting rid of a politically incompatible public servant as easily as possible, or otherwise unacceptable, or of maintaining its uncertainty. Do we have any reason to deal with such aspirations? Of course, it's just a rhetorical question. But in view of the number of concerns I have listed, I have also read in serious professional literature, but I cannot support such a Article 1 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Just explained a few things. As far as trust, mistrust and control are concerned, I think the basic truth is that one who has no bad conscience and who plays by the rules, as it is called, is not afraid of any control. We can't say that surveillance is an expression of mistrust. Because if this were the case, then all the forms of control in force in this country would be an expression of distrust for someone: it would be inspection, customs control or any other control. They could always come to say, "Yes, look at them, they don't trust this, they don't trust businesses, they don't trust citizens, and now they're in some kind of control." It's got to be surveillance. It has to be in a collective because of fair relations. How do you think it is in a collective where there is talk and there is some public secret that one of the 100 employees, for example, abuses his right to have a registered residence in Cyprus, for example, and travels to work from Ljubljana and every year brings about 3,000 euros to the budget around. What do you think it looks like? How? This can't be tolerated. It's simply unethical for such things to happen, and control has to be. That's the first thing. Another thing about freedom. Mr. Saiovic is from the LDS Group, if I'm not mistaken. Well, he talked a lot about freedom and how this possibility of control through detective companies violates freedom, human rights and freedoms. Yes, but the LDS was the one who proposed and passed the law on detective activity, because this government did not accept it. The law on detective activity is a law from years ago and was adopted under the mandate of the LDS government, and you were also associated with the Social Democrats at the time. So if the problem is in the law on detective activity, if the problem is that we know in this country some economic activity known by most European countries, but not all, not all, then come on a day with a proposal that this law, which you once brought into the State Assembly under the roof, cancels to withdraw from the world. Not to start some kind of hypocrisy, but now all of a sudden, freedom is at stake. Now you're thinking of freedom. Whose freedom? The ones who cheat? Those who abuse rights? What bothers you, who do you stand for here, and who do you fight for here? You don't have to stand up for thousands of civil servants who are doing their job honestly and properly. But do not take for granted the rights of those who cheat. The fact that they're violations has been seen many times. Look, soon after the beginning of the mandate, when some false diplomas affairs came in, we undertook a review of the credibility of diplomas in the state administration. We went and "scanned," if I may say so, all the educational papers. People didn't take it for granted. But this antivirus program, if I may say so, has given us 90 abuses, 90 violations, 90 forged documents, 90 forged diplomas, 90 crimes if you want, which are now being processed by the police, the prosecution and so on. So, some small percentage, I'd rather say promo than a percentage of abuse, but we can't tolerate them. Well, the argument that this introduces some possibility that the economy already knows is realistic. This is true, indeed, you cannot deny it, not only the economy, but also the complex public sector, except public administration. So some small segment of employers today can't use it in this country. If you feel that this threatens freedom, yes, then you should probably first be concerned about the freedom of employees in the private sector and should go to the immediate repeal of the law on detective activity. But you accepted it. Today's opposition, which was in the government at the time, passed this law. And now it's problematic that we want to use it to prevent abuse in government. Pay attention to the text of the law. As usual only that part is taken, - I would say, trying to distort the content of the law. When he speaks of oversight, he says primarily that it is carried out by an officer or by authorised staff. This is primary, and if the chairman considers that this is not appropriate, it would be more prudent to hire external aid, that is, professional assistance, then do so. When, say? Imagine a small group of 30 employees suspected of abuse of such a right. I think it's going to be very hard for any of the other 29 to force him to control it, that's embarrassing. And believe that is why there are professional services that can be obtained on the market. A previous warning, you once say from the same party that you need to talk to a person first, if there is any suspicion of abuse, you need to talk to him, sit down and talk, and then at the next moment laugh at how foolish we are to let the suspect know and talk to him. So you want to talk to the employees first, and on the other hand, that bothers you. That is exactly what this provision is intended for you to first familiarize yourself with the suspicion of a fellow worker, to talk to him, to explain that you have such and such information, and to give him the opportunity to abandon the violation. And control, once again, is possible only in the event of suspicion. Well, then the debate went back to the story, to the question of the law on public servants and the possibility of non-criminal discharges, then the opposition threatened with crowds, with multitudes of replacements, with personnel cleanings, tsunamis and so on. Statistics have shown us that eight state officials, eight directors, have been replaced under this law. And believe me, we could go from case to case to case, and I could prove to you that in these eight cases, it was to ensure the better functioning of an institution and only for that! If you only compare, the functioning of the tax administration before and now. Okay. For the sake of the news, there is also something going on, but the tax administration has been collecting data from taxpayers for years and years that it already has, we all have to write tax returns and, of course, the data it already has, and then they have manually entered those data into their information system, where they already have them, and then they have issued tax decisions on this basis. When the management of the tax administration was replaced, suddenly everything could be simplified, nothing could be simplified before, everything was too complicated, now it is suddenly possible to simplify this. It is suddenly possible that next year the taxpayers will receive only an informational calculation of the income without having any dealings with the tax administration. I mean, it's working better now, and it's one of these eight non-criminal swaps, and the other seven could explain very similarly. So, the human rights tsunami was a forecast, the reality was eight replaced. Then, to whom the right Constitutional Court was given at that time, we have already discussed, we will probably, but if I can read the Constitutional Court's decision - and if I know what I know, I know this because I also have several years of experience from there - it is possible to read this decision only by giving it to the government in principle, because the Constitutional Court then said, the changes in the way that the law provides are allowed, are not unconstitutional, only the time limit should be limited. It is basically the opposite of what Mr Sayovic said. The Constitutional Court gave the Government the right and not the incentives. Contrary to the law on detective activity, which you are reading in the National Party, there is a lack of law, I will say whether or not there is a lack of knowledge of the legal system. The special law can always regulate things differently than the general law, and if you read the provision of Article 1 of the novel ZJU, you will read that it reads "in spite of the provisions of Article 13 of the law on detective activity". So this argument is on very torn legs, no. How this government deals with public administration or how it leads, how it manages public administration, is probably one of the key issues. I claim that with public administration we manage significantly better than ever before. Anytime in the past! For the first time, that we have begun to draw attention to the rigidity of bureaucratic procedures, to the overly complicated procedures, to the fact that state officials must be friendly to citizens, businesses and other parties in the process; that public administration behaviour is crucial to the competitiveness of the economy; that there is a huge simplification of procedures. For years and years, the red tape has accumulated in the regulations, and it is only there that towards the end of his reign that then President Drnovšek realized this, that he even put on his feet some sort of anti-biocratic program, which was based on the idea of a well-designed, good idea, that he was operationally going a little bit worse, but some things have moved back then, but this government has set it as one of the central points of the programme: debirocratisation, a kind administration. To whom - to citizens and to businesses; and this is the point. However, dealing with people at work is crucial, absolutely crucial, and people need to be treated in a way that motivates them, motivates them to determine what expectations you expect of them, and then monitors how it is realized to help them develop their careers. He's holding it all together. But does that mean you can't prevent abuse? Does this mean that you have to tolerate irregularities, that you have to tolerate that one in a thousand employees, such as the employer’s fraud and your associates? I don't think you can expect that. I'm gonna have another joke. Why won't Mrs. Žgajner Tavš ever be Edith Piaf? [[...]] [[The answer from the bench.]] [[...]] [[That's not the only reason.]] In your debate, I think you've used the word about 30 times, I'm afraid. You've been very sorry, but Edith Piaf said, "I don't regret anything," "I don't regre her rien." [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Zagorac and Žgijner Tavš applied to the replica. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I'm going to start the replica, and I'm going to start with one, maybe not a joke, but the truth, but you can take it as a joke: the most unfriendly person makes a friendly administration, the state administration. But "lex specialis", as you mentioned, is good that we have the Constitutional Court to assess who "lex specialis" is for carrying out detective activity, which is "generalis", which defines other things that detectives could leave behind! [[...]] The Constitutional Court is the one to determine whether or not the two laws are in conflict. You mentioned privates. Privates don't spend budget money. They're filling out the budget, among other things. But the government only spends it, and very rarely fills it. You will hire detectives so that you can spend budget money for which you have not even foreseen in the law. I mentioned the conversation, and maybe we didn't get along here. A friendly administration, when a worker forgives, invites an employee to talk. He tells him what he did wrong, and then he fires him. So he'll know what he can't do wrong. We got the wrong idea here, so I asked for a replica back then. And that seems nice to me. Much nicer than a detective usually has a mustache, and those nice hats come home, and he says, "Here you go, you're allowed, bye, I have to go." That's not right. Furthermore, to compare customs, we're talking about diseases, diseases that at least 98 percent of people don't want. But you've compared this to one "stranger" across the border that a man makes consciously, rarely subconsciously, but the one who does this subconsciously is for the hospital -- not for sending a detective to his ass, but because it's for the hospital. And to compare that, I find it unkind of people who are really sick. And when you say that the law says that when it comes to abuse, only those who abuse will get a detective - you're going to tell me today who's abusing the hospital? When the chairman finds out someone's being abused, he'll decide whether or not to send a detective -- that's bullshit! But when he suspects, he says, he can unreasonably suspect and the detective will follow me, who will be really sick, but it won't be awkward, it will be fair, fair and well. Yeah, who's making a fool out of someone here now? I think you're the minister from the entire public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you. There's also a replica of Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much. You know, even between the word'sorry' and the word'sorry', at least in the sense of those two words, there's a big difference. I hope you understand this difference and also the difference if you say "I regret" what I do, but I do not regret my previous implementation, because it was right and believe that it is based on solid facts. But I'm afraid that one day you'll regret this arrogantness of yours, or, if you want, you'll act with a hint of cynicism or a pinch of humor. And I believe that you're a touch of humor, a pity for the black humor, and you've put it into this marriage. And when you've grown so wide, how good it is, and how you actually care for the whole administration, for the public administration, let me -- and don't say we're against the National Party because we have no idea of the law -- I'll read it. I believe you are too, but if you're not, it's so much worse for you. "Not only is this law in this work when we are talking about private detectives, but this has already been discussed on the committee, contrary to the constitution, because it is completely unlimited to extend the possibility of controlling the official's private life, but it also shows a flawed, authoritarian attitude towards an official in public administration." Next: "No reform of the public administration, based on fear and underestimation of officials, has failed." And these, with respect, Mr Virant, are actually the words resulting from a recent analysis by the World Bank of Public Administration Reforms. And Slovenia is in here too. Exposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u152	The more Mr Virant argues and defends this law, the more I am convinced that I must support the amendment and reject the law. And I will be happy when he speaks again, and I am almost certain that he will confirm with every thought that the law must be rejected. Not the law because of the law, but the law because of the regulations that speak of this persecution, which speaks of these detectives, whom some of whom are quite a part of such Members - before there was a hearing, there were many more of us, because there were also coalitions quite a lot - so there are quite a few of us who reject it. We do not understand the objective of what we would like to achieve. The goal is to control themselves to limit potential abuse, and I haven't heard from anyone who would be against it. But we're turning down the resources we're being offered. These funds aren't the kind of funds I'd like to receive. A number of important reasons for this have also been mentioned in order to allow for a deeper reflection, perhaps even with the Minister. The surveillance is increasing excessively. The sanctions are actually one step closer to each of us and the repression is - in my opinion, it has already reached a limit that is probably no longer permissible - if all of this is accepted and if what the law makes possible is actually realized. I think it would be better than if the Minister here presented himself as a prophet of trust to say there is no trust. We were prevented from doing so the whole time we were preparing the law. To say the least, I didn't mean to do that now, but you're pulling me by saying that all the time it's been said that not only is it some "explare" special, here and there who would play something, but it's mass abuse; and especially in those services, in the police, in the country they should be most trusted. Very often, police and military officers and public servants were mentioned to inspire trust. And all public polls show that people trust them more than governments and Members. We're at the bottom anyway, as far as trust is concerned. And if we're going to establish this, what's being suggested here now is whether we're going to look at each other properly or not, whether we've made 100% of the right use, I don't know, of the hospital stock, then I'm going to set up a system of general mistrust, and nothing's going to take place in the Middle Ages to read Thomas Hops, we're going to have what's called "homo homini lupus". People will be here against each other! Even if they don't prove that someone was being abused, that suspicion will be enough when people in the same department look at each other and say, "Yeah, if there's smoke, there's fire. But there's got to be something on it. We need to be careful about this and then we're going to segregate it, then we're going to eliminate it, then it's going to be socially excluded." It's going to accumulate. I can't imagine it any different. Nor can I imagine how the chairman would urge his fellow workers to pursue one another. I'm using harder terms on purpose, but that's actually what this is about. I'm definitely not doing this. I don't know how then Minister Virant will punish me, because I doubt there will be any sanctions, because I will not do what the law imposes on me. I'm not gonna try to stop my coworkers and coworkers. But I do trust them, and because I trust them, I try to work with them in a different way, with other means, and so that I will always be tempted, or perhaps someone who is not real, in my judgment, but still have to check. That's a possibility the law gives. It says that on the basis of some specific information. What is certain information, except for the other, as a complete indeterminate? To say certain information is almost the same as total uncertainty. And I figure out how I'm gonna get someone to watch me send someone to collect information. Not just me, the entire DeSUS Group will vote in favour of this amendment and against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u154	First of all, I have to react to this rather incorrect display of discussions from coalition coordination. You haven't heard from my mouth that you'd ever talk about mass abuse in this area in the administration, but I've just been saying the opposite all the time that it's so small that we're talking about a handful of 30 and so many thousands of people who are employed in the administration that it's an abuse in a handful of cases. I keep stressing that. And if I say this in public, I'm sure that virtually everyone in the office has reported correctly where they're driving from, and they're not abusers of the hospital, and they're a handful of cases. If I say "Urbi et Orbi" here, then I guess I'm expressing some confidence in people. Of course, once again, this does not mean that we will not always persecute and sanction those few who abuse it. Like, 90 people who faked diplomas, and that's what you always have to look for. And if someone tells me today how else you will find this abuse, if such information or suspicions occur, as if someone is going to go see if a person is actually driving from Kopra or not driving, or maybe driving from Ljubljana, then tell them how this could be done differently or talk to, say, someone who lives there, and find out where someone is actually driving from. Detective, even if the detective agency services were used, because the detective has no greater authority, no more options than a public administration officer. He can't because he doesn't have the right to spy on or eavesdrop on his phone or anything. Our law on detective activity, as far as I know it and know it well, I've read it thoroughly lately, I would hope to say that it doesn't give detectives powers that would involve some kind of interference with privacy. If they don't abuse it to understand each other, but abuse can, but it can reach into the privacy of everyone in this world, into the privacy of someone else. So, yes, if you think that the law on detective activity is wrong to interfere too much with freedom, then in the opposition you will also have to break down deeply with the ashes, why did you once bring this law through the government and parliament, and cancel it and apologize to the public for interfering with your freedom. I'm sure this marriage doesn't interfere with privacy if you read it carefully. If it is respected, it does not interfere with privacy and there is no major problem with it. So, I think that from this topic, from these elements of the work, there is absolutely too much circus to try, as usual, to represent them from the blackest point of view, to try to inspire certain purposes that we definitely do not have, and if necessary, I will repeat them a hundred times: we trust people in public administration, and we will detect and prevent abuses and violations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted, Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, it was clear from these discussions that we all somehow feel that there is a problem with the use of hospitals or the abuse of hospitals or the transport to work. That's what I agree with. But it is a question of whether we have chosen the right instrument to remedy this. This is now a question in this National Assembly. Do we also have other instruments to better intervene in this without dangerously approaching interference in the private sphere? I will give you suggestions that could be used to achieve good effects. In fact, by interfering with the private sphere or overseeing the employees, we also touch on the issue of mobbing, which has recently been - and the fellow Member has mentioned this - it is stalking, controlling, intimidation, tracking, and something else, which is of course intended for some good purposes, but it can quickly breed and also break trust among the co-workers so as to achieve a negative effect. How's your stay? Where are we? But you know, now these are the terms in this country where you're staying somewhere, where you're staying somewhere, where you're sleeping somewhere, where you're driving. And now we're going to control it - where someone sleeps, where someone stays, or where we're going to get caught up in the impossible. [[...]] Those who want to abuse it will do so. They'll report to the farthest possible location and do something in between, maybe sleep somewhere else, half here, half there. In fact, right in front of the police and the military, it turns out that some make more money by transport than they do by pay. In fact, this transport is actually the best paid, better than just work. Isn't that interesting? Do they have anything like this in other countries? They don't have these problems. Please! Raise your wages for so much, flatfoot, and then let people arrange their transportation and stay wherever they want, according to their own judgment, no one will be disturbed. Do it! What about surveillance, whether someone's in hospital or not. This is a doctor's problem, not a patient's problem. It was a little hint of what's going on with psychoneurosis, neurosis, psychosis, if you have it. Do you think they recommend that they're home? Not that they're walking! Then the detective will come, and he'll say, you know what, but this one's been walking around, and you'll get involved in the impossible. And that's not good. If it's anyone, it's a doctor who broke it. And monitor doctors whether they abuse this institute because they don't get deeper because it's easy or because they have some connections to do it. This is where they're having trouble with the presidents. When they turn to medical consulates, doctors or something like that, they get no response, the doctor protects himself. He says, yes, I wrote him a hospital because I suspected it would be something. I'm sorry. You have to answer for that, honey, if you have a good salary. If the manager is responding, if the foreman is responding, if the worker is responding, then the doctor should also be responsible. Not the employee, you don't have to control the employee. But if he's sick by accident, and he's got this disease and he should be at home resting, you're not gonna tie him up so he doesn't abuse. He could go out, do his own damage. Let's think about what if he works on the construction site; okay, maybe he'll abuse. What about those who have a long-distance job and those who usually earn the most, lawyers and so on? No, the lawyers aren't at the hospital, but they're lawyers and others who can do much more profitable activities -- they're at the hospital, and they do something, they write -- let's say a column when you write a column on the hospital, and it brings you so much and so. How are you gonna do that here? So, monitor the doctors, lift the threshold for these transports and you will not follow anything. But if you want to control it, then don't use detectives. Now we have more modern ways - chips. Place the chips, it's an obligation at work, and then you'll be monitoring them on satellite and you'll see everything: where they appear, where they go and then it's a secret tracking, put them in secret boxes, just then you can't set up a commission and then send them to reveal these secrets. So this is it. Intervention into the private sphere. You need to look at what inappropriate behavior is, what generates it and what eliminates it; the real cause of what it is. This is the simplest, most convenient solution you've found. I don't think she's the best. The other two I suggested are better, they're better! Don't say I'm criticizing because something's wrong. I suggest a solution. And that's how they get somewhere else. But if it takes detectives and that. On the contrary, I would like to say that if we have introduced in the private sphere the possibility of detective activity for purposes such as this to be monitored, we consider that, according to a strong opinion, this is not right, then we do not tolerate these models to the public sphere. There is nothing dedicated to this and there is no equalization in a bad step forward. Let's do the equation in good. These are my comments. The problem of hospital and transportation and so-called abuse, formal and informal; this is, and I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u157	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I think that it is one of the weaknesses in the drafting of our legislation that we think, on a prepared proposal, that we must defend it at all costs and with all the arguments that never are. And it is not helpful for the well - intentioned to listen to malicious criticism and see if we should sit down, think about it, and perhaps correct the decision a little. What we're talking about today is a typical case for me. Mr Minister, it is clear to us that we are running a large pump around the provisions that are proposed. Indeed, we may be running it, but whoever listened to the minister is also pushing a big pump around the provisions that are proposed. He thinks that in this way he will solve an important part of the state budget, of illegality, of abuse and of the like, and does not accept that collateral damage will be caused by the conduct that we are alerting us to, these are personal relations, this is a possibility of abuse, this is an opportunity to intervene in the private sphere, this is to encourage reports from one another, this is also the hiring of detectives at the discretion of the chairman, because, after a free judgment, it is now up to him to decide or determine, to entrust to someone else or to hire a detective. He's not ready to hear it with a single word. I don't think that's good. On many occasions I have had the opportunity and honour of the Minister to listen when he has argued his proposals, and I must say that he can do so and that he is a capable rhetorical speaker. But I have to say that he likes to fake things and doesn't present them as pure truths and that he likes to plant things on one of us here and there. This is how he wants to instill in us that we are defending laziness, defending those who break the laws in order to want to abuse the budget. Why? Is this correct and fair to us, who have pointed out that the solutions proposed are simply not ideal and that they are worth thinking about, even knowing and based on the facts we know, on public administration relations. People fear for their position. Mobbing, mentioned above, is also present in public administration. It is also present elsewhere, but we are only likely to have an easier impact directly on public administration relations, which are an integral part of the end of our work in this national assembly, in the government and beyond, rather than in the private sector. So I think it would be worth it, Mr Minister, government representatives, to think, but not to go back to what happened a year ago, two, five years ago. Mr. Minister, it is also clear to my clients that we were in the government. Yeah. We were in the government that he was in. The Secretary of State was responsible for the transactions we are talking about today; and this is a good secretary of state to hear my praise. I just don't know why he doesn't want to admit it today and why it's obvious to someone else if he's been working with him to modernize the public administration and to become what he wrote and defended in Article 1 of the principles of the Law on Public Administration. I don't think that these are cheap criticisms without having to be used in a serious marriage. And I'm going to say something else that you can think of as demagogy, but it's a case that's also possible. In the media, however, it doesn't matter where I don't name them and advertise them, we've heard a case of how tracking can lead to an impossible situation and the injustices of an individual. He was in hospital, he went to visit a sick mother as a disabled person, he was blinded, registered, fired - he had no opportunity to receive compensation, he was too young to go to bed, and before what would happen to him existentially. I don't blame the detective for not misinterpreting, the detectives do their duty, and he reported what he was ordered, but I blame those who were so inhuman that he couldn't separate one, another, third, cause, cause and effect, and he was willing to do what we were told was true. Let us also consider and assess whether the measures proposed are proportionate to those, as Mr Minister speaks, individual cases which I would like to resolve with such important solutions in this law. I personally believe that many of these individual cases would also solve the conversation, resolve the mutual trust between the chairman and the subordinate, resolve the respective relationships, and that this does not require a detective and then, through him, determine the guilt on the basis of a free judgement, which may also be the result of better or worse relations with the individual subordinate, who are also in a variety of ways, with a number of reasons that are on the part of the chairman, but not the subordinate, may be present. I will not support this proposal, and if it becomes the content of the law, neither will the law, even though I have said that other solutions may be absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you, too. Since I can see that there's still a desire for a debate, I'm opening a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. We have nine members of Parliament who have been reported. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I also need to shudder at what my colleague Potsch has already mentioned before me. And it's an obvious fact that we protect those who abuse and fertilize their disease. I'm talking about the statistics I have, it's 2%. Even if you hire military armored 8x8, believe that this 2% will always remain, with or without detectives. But far from that, we protect those you want to make sick, and protect and reprisal to cultivate friendly administration and with a gun to hunt someone who is supposed to be drinking disease is painful, and I can't say otherwise, but it's painful. Because we know detectives carry guns, not just cameras. And what's interesting is that it's so favoured by detectives that it's no longer given this authority, I'm going to say, even for presidents or for presidents or just for presidents. Why do we need detectives? Besides, it's a very lucrative business, and I'm wondering if the government might have in mind, but it's setting up some kind of detective agency. Maybe it'll be Friday, Sunday, whatever. And the other Members who will vote on the amendments, because you do not believe as Members or as people, that what we are going to vote today is right. Perhaps a wife or a husband of one of you is employed in public administration, but you will not allow yourself to be followed. However, you trust your partner so much that you know that he does not drool the disease; you may find other inconveniences that will not suit you, but that will cause a whole, and I will not say "stand" but an interesting story at home in a family relationship, because the detective will shoot at your wife or husband, but as people, you simply cannot afford it. Except as I said before, unless some, or some, government structures, or some of the partners of government Members or Members of Parliament are exempt from this tracking; they will not fall within the suspicion that someone is ailing a disease. I am still convinced that people in public administration and elsewhere should be motivated not to stay at home, but those who have this desire that they are always sick and unworkable and that they - the same 2% as I said - will never be able to be removed from a particular working environment with the detectives and the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you, too. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u162	The minister lacked different suggestions. They were, for example, LDS in connection with the inspection, and I would support it, and I have no love situation with LDS. The Minister spoke of cases of extremely rare cases; such exceptional rare cases are not subject to law. The Minister talked about abscess, abscess is solved by analysis of the causes and by eliminating the causes and not by detectives and by public trackers. We're not afraid of surveillance, we're afraid of abuse of control.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u163	Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! This is a very interesting discussion. This discussion is interesting because it shows with the Minister's explanations how and where this government has fallen. In principle, it is possible to ensure the efficiency, transparency and legality of the work of any organisation with two modes of management. Why did I mention transparency, efficiency and legality? Because these are the reasons why the government says that, following a reduced procedure, it is important to amend the Law on Public Servants. I do not think it is necessary to do so and that this amendment should be rejected. Why should the amendment reject what the government is proposing? There are two ways to guide: one is to lead by example, and the other is to lead by sticks and roots. Because of the known limitations, I will not discuss here everything you do in wage policy, of course, for a long time it has not been in the public administration. This government, on the other hand, proposes to use the stick now, says in advance that it is no longer able to lead by example. And I agree with that. True, this government cannot lead public servants by example. Why not? Because the first step of this government was to politically subordinate public servants. Mr. Secretary's gone. I hope that's where he's listening. Because it must be asked, very well, that he here explains how good everything is in the Slovenian public administration, and all of a sudden now in these two and a half years, which he is a minister, and before he was the secretary of state responsible for the same questions, it was not good. But analyses by international institutions show that the efficiency of the Slovenian state has fallen from 56th to 61st during the term of office of this government, including in connection with the fact that we now have politically compatible public servants. And since these politically compatible public servants, despite all of this, remain in certain positions, and since there are no more carrots, it is necessary to use the rods. That's today's story. I agree with former Minister Petty Officer. With a completely wrong instrument, with a completely wrong stick you try to solve the so-called problem of hospitals in public administration and the so-called problem is that people are not well rewarded enough and we have mechanisms of so-called peacocks, but payments per mile and it happens in the net revenue of individuals what is happening. And now to say that you will use private detectives because this is misused in the private sector, but there is a great deal of misdirection. I don't know who you're convincing. Whom do you convince that this is the right method for managing the public sector? It is very interesting that the government has failed to make a comparative examination - because it cannot be done. Because such a comparative examination cannot be performed. Moreover, even later the government said nicely that, especially in countries such as Scandinavian, they do not even know the arrangements of private investigators. But that's another story now. If this government thinks that private investigators are not the right solution, you rule for two and a half years, come by law, and end them! To say the truth, this is a bad solution, but we will use this bad solution to solve the problem. However, subjugation of public servants is a manifestation of the inability of this government to lead by example and to lead the country with sticks. The country is run by rods in an authoritarian system. Of course, I myself will support the amendment proposed, and this is that paragraph 1 has been deleted. And I hope that even in view of today's debate, because I hear a lot of coalition Members that people will understand that if they want to have a partnership in Slovenia, you need a partnership with your subordinates first. You have to lead them by example, not by bats, if you don't have carrots. And that's the story this afternoon. Mr Minister, who thinks this is funny, I would like to remind him that he said something completely different a few years ago. And I don't know where he got that idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you, too, for your input. And I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! I'll be brief. This law, or such supervision, raises the question of the purpose of such control. The fact is that the long-standing practice that I have in particular in the field of labour courts, which they have decided, is that anyone who has been suspended or removed from the workplace for any offence has lost his job, been demolished or, if not at the second stage or at some higher stage, has always been judged for the benefit of the worker. No matter what consequences, what guilt he had. That is why this work is unnecessary, because we will only stifle the courts, the cases will practically drag on for 8, 10 years, and then the judgments will fall, which will further increase the cost of the country, as it will pay the workers back, and have to take them to work. In my practice, I do not know the case; perhaps I have only followed those who were such that there would be as much conviction as, in such cases, a conviction in favour of the employer who is also a country in this case. Therefore, I really do not know that it is necessary to seek or achieve respect for order and work obligations and obligations in the manner normal, envisaged, without any specific measures or detective tracking or whatever. [[...]] I really don't see much effect here, but I see a lot of unnecessary damage or excitement. I therefore ask, of course, and I believe that this method could be complemented or modified wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u167	Thank you, too. Member Paula Gantar has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So lately, I think, we are facing - or at least I'm noticing, maybe I'm more receptive to this - that somehow these periodic outbreaks of Minister Virant's laudableness are becoming more common and that the more they occur, the more they appear, the more they are without a reason. Mr. Virant did not invent the ideas of a friendly administration, nor did he invent the idea of a competent administration, but e-governments. So, of course, it seems to me that it would be good to think about what was done and what was not done in the middle of the term and something over. I do not know when he will have time, I thank him for coming when he will have time to explain to him in some debate, open and friendly, that it is possible, however, for a model of a slightly modified bureaucrat public administration organisation to be able to effectively apply some, not all, principles and principles of modern resource management, resources and rare goods, such as legal and other arrangements. Unfortunately not, but we may have to discuss this with both of us at some point. I do not need, I do not have the time or the opportunity to discuss that one of the important solutions to the problem of public administration is that certain public administration activities and functions with public powers may be transferred to the competent, responsible institutions which, on behalf and for the account of the public administration or the users of such services, perform this work. Some of this was done. Some of this was done not too well. One of the things you remember was that we transferred some, including routine, although not entirely routine, of certification and similar matters to the notaries. This is a typical transfer of public authority to a structure that is outside this public administration. True, the error was not in the transfer, the error was that we did not properly regulate how much they can count, how much they can count, and what their powers are under individual rules and so on. Therefore, instead of doing so, we have, in fact, transferred back to administrative units the activity of certified and similar matters and brought them back to function instead of maybe leaving them there, better regulated and made some progress on this. I think that we can relieve the public administration, of course, by amending regulations that require less regulation and, of course, by transferring certain tasks outside the public system itself or in a narrower sense of the state administration. The Minister and I haven't had a chance to discuss this, but someday we might. Of course, the tax administration case. I must say that the idea that the final phase of the electronic information administration, when you get home or through an internal or a letter, is a pre-fulfilled tax forecast, of course a trend and a goal, and we have already defended it before this government, this must be what Minister Gregor Virant must know. It is true, however, that some officials at the Durs rejected this possibility quite strongly. But it's clear that the trend has gone this way. And on the tax administration today, Minister Virant, I'm afraid nothing is going as well as it should, unfortunately. I can give you an example, I have my little case, irrelevant to the tax administration, a little bit more for me, because it's my money, of course, but nothing special. Today they are solving, dealing with the simple problem of the year's previous tax forecast and must already work on new issues and so on. And I call there, and I don't hope to burden tax officials, because I know they're burdened I'd say, and that they're in a rumor if I used a famous movie, the name of the movie Almodovar "On the Edge of Nervous Break". Because they're overloaded, and because I know they're "inflating" them with running things, and maybe my little problem will solve it someday. No, that's not the point. More than that, I believe that today the tax administration, the question of if it knows well how much taxes it must collect and if they can really verify it. But this is not the problem of this director, the problem is that you are not aware of enough and clearly enough that the problem of the tax administration is informing that the problem of tax administration is what is called frozen information systems, databases, integration, so-called Back Office. And if you don't have a Back Off, don't brag about the previously fulfilled tax returns, because you're going to have to do more to make it work. And I'm afraid and I hope, I expect it to be good, I'd say, a country and to the detriment of those who have to pay taxes to know what you're doing. That's about it, by the way. With regard to this law, I would say the following, Mr Minister, here I must point out in the introduction that I fully agree with what fellow Member Drobnic has said. I am, of course, adding some of my own observations to this, namely that abstention in public or state administration is a problem, there is a problem. All of us who have worked in this administration know that it exists, and we know that it is different from body to body, from sector to sector. Therefore, it would be good - and I have already reminded you on the Committee on Home Affairs - that it would be good if we were given an overview of this abstention by, say, ministries, why there are more in some ministries, why there are more in some departments or departments of this. What are the reasons, how do you evaluate the reasons, and why does it come to him? Surely, for example, in some inspection services of this abstention there is a great deal. I'm sure it's where employees and employees are sometimes, I know this situation, faced, like, with the unfulfilled demands of superiors, is one of the possible escapes to abstention. Where they are faced with political will to do something, even though professional and legalistic ethics obliges them not to do so and so forth, there is a very strong abstention. And that's why analysis of the causes of abstention is better and their elimination is more important than introducing detectives or not detectives. You've told us that one of the previous governments, it doesn't matter which one, I've been in all the previous so-called detective laws, and that it's our own butter, and that we should change it if we want to. I'd say - I didn't deal with it anyway - but based on experience and what I know, I'd say it was a very wise decision to say that detective activity should not apply to state authorities. We had one case where there was, like, an involuntary, willing pursuit of one of the employees who was doing something different than one of the clients thought. You assume that you have big and powerful clients, "developer", with a lot of money, who, for example, want to force some particular decision, let's say in the area of space, and that by means of detective methods they reveal some of the personal characteristics of an official and it can be subject to blackmail and pressure. These personal characteristics may be completely irrelevant from the point of view of the case. It is therefore right that we have prohibited that a detective activity may relate to the activity and decision-making and action of state authorities and that those who wish to change it will face resistance at least on my part. And the other thing is that I think - you said yourself that somehow this detective would have no more powers than public administration officials have. So it can actually do this for those things, for that handful that they said could be done by the Secretary-General, under the authority of the Chief of Staff, the Human Resources Officers in the Personnel Department. It's just the work that comes with them. If you're the secretary general at the ministry, it's not a function in which everyone can be pleased. That's just how it is. Or the chief of staff or someone in administrative control, in an inspection. However, I think it is very bad to release a detective activity for such or other cases over public servants for the reasons that I have stated because they manage matters that may still be in the private interest of large, powerful clients - not small ones, to be understood. And I therefore believe that, given the extent of the phenomenon that we have, this phenomenon should be analysed, to go to addressing the causes, as far as possible, and to engage those services in ministries and departments that are professional, which do so to eliminate those anomalies that will appear - they will always, but they will always have to fight them. That is why I believe and agree with all those who believe that this Article 1 should be deleted and that we should not open and call the devil, if I may say so, to the public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u169	Thank you, too. And allow me to join you in thanking myself for Mr. Minister Virant's rejoining us when we consider his idea and his law. And we are continuing the debate. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am among those who are often critical of themselves and of my colleagues, and I would say that there are often quite a few debates in this house that are unproductive to the place. However, this debate, which is now taking place in this Chamber, seems to me to be extremely important and that it will be productive from various points of view to the public, perhaps even to those who initially applauded this solution, which is in Article 1 of this Law, until they convince us of each other, and I would like to be especially productive to you, Mr Minister. And you don't have to take into account the suggestions of the opposition Members this time, but they suggest one of your own, from a party of the MPs who said it was to consider reshaping Article 1. And this is where your colleagues keep telling you, and maybe I'll do it for a while. Those who recall the previous coalitions and previous governments could say that such a provision in that coalition would not happen to be brought through this Parliament. Indeed, there was a much more free vote at the time, and the amendment before us would, by the way, be supported by two-thirds support. Even today, after the debate, judging by the fact that colleagues will remain on their feet and in view of the debate that has been held, I think that this amendment to Article 1 will be supported and you will then have to reshape the content of Article 1 in one way or another, and let us hope that this debate will have an impact on the new content of this Article. I was talking about the public. When we monitored public research, it actually happened that people applauded the solutions, how the state would now oversee the employees in the country, those who were doing well. Maybe it's true that a lot of people are doing better than the economy. First of all, let me say whether we need bad economic solutions, because often people have strange stories going on, we do have to transfer them to the government. And if people are often scared or scared there, they don't have to be here yet. And those who initially applauded these solutions, perhaps even now when they listen to us, listen to us, or explain to them what might happen to them or theirs, then they imagine and no longer applaud, and perhaps they do not support these solutions. And I hope that's the way it's going to be in this room today. On the one hand, there is a very uniform view that we support some of the solutions contained in this law. Most of the debate is focused on supervision of the hospital for up to 30 days and transport to work. I wouldn't want to repeat stories that could happen. But one of his colleagues was very good at directing him not only to be concerned about control, control and then reshaping the stories of people who are in the hospital, and to limit their movement as some closed rabbits or wet cats, but not to move out of the living room and so on; or that, I don't know, if you're registered in the Slovenian Horses, that you shouldn't come to work from Ljubljana to stay here because of, I don't know, snow conditions, traffic disruptions and so on. And we are particularly concerned about the abuse of control. To turn control into an abuse in a variety of ways, which have been very well mentioned here, so far that colleagues have mentioned: control - yes, but what is allowed to me is not allowed to you. We have a nice Latin river, which I think my colleague might know exactly how to say, I don't hope, because I'm probably going to be wrong in the middle. In view of this and the sanctions that may follow, and in order to make many of us bitter in this way, life may not be too important if we humble ourselves a little and ask you: think about it. Also because of suggestions from your client colleagues or coalitions that have warned you, let us reconsider and try to reshape the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you, too. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will join myself in the debate those who have concerns about the solution you are bringing on behalf of the government, Mr Minister, to introduce certain measures to control the abuse of absence from work or to justify compensation for transport costs. Here, Mr Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law's proposal is the government. But I cannot help but feel that the government has supported this law very unilaterally from one point of view. Because I think that the absence of important concerns from the Ministry of Health in the handling of the government, which should have been noted today in Slovenia, even according to the Ministry of Health, we do not have data to determine the extent of the phenomenon of psychological violence in the workplace. And in this context, I regret, Mr Minister, that you have not attended the debate or perhaps wondered about the content of the debate that was held on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which has given serious attention to the problems of psychological violence, which we are dealing with in Slovenia, in fact, without clear data on the extent of this violence. Here, Mr Minister, I would draw your attention to the very important findings of experts who speak about this and advertise that the problems of psychological violence in the workplace need to be addressed seriously in Slovenia, as this is a matter of systematic misconduct - therefore, I stress the systematic mistreatment of subordinates, colleagues or superiors, who can, if such systematic behaviour is carried out continuously, cause victims substantial consequences. We do not have this data in Slovenia, but our daily practice reminds us that the extent of such behaviour is already very large. Estimates abroad say that this is 10.20%, and estimates for Slovenia are that this is even more. When I look at one side of the assessment of the Ministry of Health, which speaks of the fact that it will interfere with the rights of absence from work, i.e. the rights, hospital absences, of course, worry about the conduct of this ministry, and, of course, the government as a whole, that the reasons for the absence of hospitals do not end and they are very easily and does not want to be monitored. In this context, Mr Minister, of course, I remind you of what you are already saying to reconsider; if you are talking about the fact that there is little abuse, but at the same time with the law you are introducing a text that says that if a suspicion is expressed, which will of course be a real suspicion - because suspicion can arise and may be the subject of abuse - it will be found within a collective of public servants. Do you think it will be worthwhile to identify and prevent such abuses in a way that you will actually create within the collectives, in the context of the investigations, talks that will require colleagues to express their views on each other? Because suspicion can be "founded", but it can also be misused, and there has been a lot of talk about it today. And if we speak in this context of mobbing, which appears to us as a very serious problem and then also to start health and many times it may also be the reason that, for reasons that are not there, someone becomes in this pressure also the one who can leave for a hospital absence. And here today I have not heard a debate that would talk about this, of course, except yours, Mr Minister, who would talk about the measures that you are proposing here, addressing all of these issues that we are trying to draw your attention to from various parliamentary groups here today. If it is a very simple objective to prevent abuse, it can be achieved through a simple measure to track and investigate these abuses, and you ignore the breadth of everything else that such a measure can bring, it seems to me that the conduct of this government at this point is at least irresponsible. And we suggest that you consider, in support of your reflections, whether it would not make sense to take into account all the concerns that have been put before you here today, and that, as you say, successful governance with public administration would also be proven by actions. Allow us, given that we are meeting as users of this public administration, that we may also have a different opinion than you do. I can understand you that you can present to the Slovenian public a situation that can only be supported in real life, and that by your actions you create confidence in the people who, in your relationship with you as the minister responsible for this area, and in their behaviour, who are in contact with users every day, let's think about this solution. And that in this case, given that there were a number of solutions on the table that might have been complementary to the text that you are proposing that, by deleting this article, we should consider that the solutions to be adopted would not harm the purpose for which it was actually said here today that action against abuse should be taken and that these measures should be implemented in such a way that they do not have significant negative effects on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you, too. I give my word to Ambassador Rudolph Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! We've heard a lot of things today. I can tell you that some of the cases led to absurdity. We talked about such things, what could have happened if, in some extreme case, it had been possible. That's right, I'll add something to it myself. It is interesting that we would like, for example, an exception to the fact that there would be great injustice and great irreducibility, if public servants were supervised, for all the other workers - the emphasis is on everyone else, because also public servants are workers, so we understand that such sharing, that they were not workers, was sometimes - for all the other workers in Slovenia, Europe and the world, is meant to be supervised. That's the way it is. But that's not fair, because there have to be exceptions. There have to be exceptions in every system, and there should probably be exceptions here too, so we shouldn't - we shouldn't be monitored, right? So, according to this logic, every control should be lifted - right? I am representing a second view that abuse should be stopped or at least restricted because it is unlikely that it will be possible to abolish it. And now I'm going to make one case. We have 100 people, and of these, 99 are almost perfect, and one is "bix". We all know that that one is more receptive to everyone else by his actions, that those 99 will sooner find his bad habits than that one will change. But that doesn't mean we have to leave him alone, but we have to try to convince him that he's not doing the right thing. That two of them will not then be created, and three of them will work slowly, and they will break - I don't know - legislation, rules or set a bad example. Since this is not only about going to work, but you may give more than a mile away, there are other things that set a bad example, but it is one that needs to be limited. I'm sure the 99 is much worse than the will, because they see one who is made out of them, and who is the fool? Those 99 who stick to the rules and do everything right! That's the problem. That's a big problem. I said earlier on behalf of the Group of Members that every control is unpleasant, that is a fact. But that's the way it is, life is so arranged that we just keep having a bunch of controls, like that or different. It's been following us all our lives. But well, who cares more about this? For those who want some basic rules, or the law, or anything that has broken, to do otherwise than the general rules, as is the law, for them it is a problem. If there's a police officer on the road, it's not a problem for the one who adheres to all traffic regulations, but for the one who-- well, if he drives more than is allowed, he's a radar, for that's a problem, for the others there's no problem. For those of you who stick to the rules that there's a police officer on the road, not a savage coming in, and you're in trouble, and you're in trouble if you stick to the rules. That's the problem. And to talk about how things can be solved differently in general, it's nothing but an excuse not to get rid of anything, or if nothing suits me, or if I'm against something, then I say, "Well, that can be saved differently, but you can save whatever you want. But when you give another solution, I'll say it can be handled differently." We're people like that, and that's the way it is. And given that a huge amount of extremes have been used today. Cases that I don't know if could ever happen are theoretically possible, but in life it's perhaps rarer, and maybe I'll give a case like this. And I'll start with the case the minister filed. I think they found 90 of those who faked the diploma in the state administration. So, between 30,000, they found 90. What is 90, it's nothing, it's not worth it! But we're going to look different. Ninety faked their diploma in one way or another, they seemed to be more, they were getting paid for it, and the other 30,000 civil servants had to be fools, and they had to graduate from school to get the same status, and they had to get the same salary. Now I don't know what's more normal now, or the 90 things that have made things easier, or the 30,000 who normally got a degree in the natural course. And now I'm going to ask myself, who is now to blame: the state, or any minister, or anyone who ordered it when they found the first person to falsify the diploma. The problem must have started when they found the director of Slovenian Railways who didn't have a degree, now I don't know if he has one now or not, I don't care, but then I remember that the problem got troubled and highlighted [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Okay, I'll say from the Slovenian Railways, I'm fixing it, so there's nothing wrong. [[..]] Then there was a problem, and through the verification system there were 30,000 people, and now we can say, this is the blame for those 30,000 that are all normal -- but well, everyone brought that paper, that certificate that they had done that prescribed education that he had issued, and for those there was no problem except that he had to find that paper, that was the only problem. If we accept this logic, then we should not check this system to see if everyone has a prescribed education, such as they "issued". And now this has been an injustice for everyone. We shouldn't have checked. That's why I'd be a little ironic, too, and I'd say the minister made a big mistake when he went to see if everyone had their diplomas. I think it would be better if the minister said that anyone who doesn't have a degree should come forward and get a higher salary. That would be a very appropriate way, they wouldn't burden each other, and I'm sure a lot of them would turn up. But since we said there were some hard-core ones, maybe something wouldn't come forward, and the minister would do the next level; those who didn't come forward now, but if you do, you'll get recognized this level of education that you've been pretending to be. There wouldn't be a check, the root would be very big, there wouldn't be a stick. And I'm sure they'd just-- maybe even all come forward, but I'm not really sure. I could go on like this, an even larger root that would be so big that it would already be like a potato would be a beneficial time for those. This is what we have talked about today, and this has been the case many times today. I am not saying that certain concerns about this control are not justified, of course they are also, but every control is unpleasant. But for someone who's somehow forgotten, that's how it is. And the same is true of the mileage. Who do you think is weird about these irregularities, I'm gonna say, I'm not gonna say "stupid"? Yes, but those who stuck to it laughed at them! There's a lot of cases like this. Now it's not mass again, but it is and people feel it. And then they say how they can laugh at us in a mustache right now, us fools who stick to the system and report it all as we need to. That's the problem. If it was just that money, it's probably not that much of a problem. That probably wouldn't work. About the abuse of control. Of course, abuse can occur everywhere, for what they consider is, in fact, abuse. And it is clear to all of us that this must also be monitored. Because if this were to be so that there could be an abuse of control, then we should put an end to any control, and I will ironize again and say: we have to stop the entire police force, we have to stop all the tax administration, because that is essentially control, and we have control everywhere else. I guess that's not true. It is said that there must be control and abuse can occur everywhere, and it is necessary to ensure that abuse does not occur. So, probably some kind of control has to be, and I'm aware that this debate of mine may have been a little bit strange, but it wasn't any weirder than some of the cases I've listened to before, and it just inspired me to decide that this is how I'm going to discuss it, or I wouldn't. Otherwise, I would have discussed it differently, as I did on behalf of the Group of Members. But don't think that the ones you discussed before me, and that was on a high level, in the same sense. That's why I decided to discuss it this way. Of course, it's not as black-and-white as we've shown it here, one very black and the other very colorful, but it's probably life that we have a whole spectrum, even a rainbow. Therefore, it is necessary to control and also such control as is prescribed here or possible, if applicable, I will use the term again for all other workers, except for the state administration, public servants, then probably not something that would be "set on a pranger" and dissipate. So if one of them is worldwide, I don't know why the other would not be able to do it. And in this context, I've been thinking, and hopefully now I've explained why I've been talking about it. I will, of course, support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you, too. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u176	We are now talking about a system that would allow these potential abuses or irregularities or illogicalities to be resolved. However, we need to ask ourselves what are the instruments that will really lead to the best solutions. I mean, there's no way to rule out this whole argument. We can also look around other countries. The proposal I mentioned earlier, somehow in this sense, has other countries in place and there is no need for supervision as regards transport. It doesn't even have to be, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't. Because we have some kind of payback system that's inadequate, then immediately there's a problem with your place of residence, where you are, and how you actually use it. As long as we had one residence in the previous system and another system, this matter was "stamped" and now "numbers" are no longer. Yeah, where he's driving from. We may have another way to strictly ask officials to submit cards at the end of the month, either monthly or daily. Of course you'll say, but somewhere there's no public transport. There's no public transportation. You have to have a mile. There's another way to check it out. But the solution I mentioned earlier eliminates all the need for such control. Look, you're just gonna have it all right. Formally. In fact, it will be those problems, as you yourself have mentioned, Mr Minister, in your ranks, in the ranks of police officers, in the ranks of soldiers, where they actually live, where they live and where they live, where they sleep. It's gonna be so hard to figure out. Some are here for three days, two days there - how are you going to handle this? It's hard to imagine how detectives will monitor this. Yes, these are specific questions that you will run into in practice. With the hospital's supervision, but I've already pointed it out. Some diseases have such aetiology that just what you expect to be lying in bed is not a treatment. You're gonna run into trouble, definitely. And what's that detective gonna do? That's why the question is whether that's what you're talking about at the extreme. [[...]] In fact, I am talking about the system that should be and in the context of the harmonisation of the labour law, these solutions have been indicated to address the need for everything that we are currently discussing, and we should therefore think about these things at that time. Then that's the solution. You're actually involved in an event whose origin is somewhere else, and you're saving or putting out a fire. The source is somewhere else. By means of mechanisms that may be ineffective, dear, and the question of potential abuse is also raised. They're standing up. Of course, it is up to the chairman to do so, to use rationally, legally, and not to do anything else. When you control, you know, there's still something else that's being controlled by accident, because the supervisors have this wire to do some business with, an extra one.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u177	Thank you very much. And this circle is concluded by Minister Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u178	Some suggestions were made on how control could be arranged in a different way. We've been doing this a lot. We sat a lot with experts, co-workers dealing with this area, and we were looking for a solution to ensure supervision, in particular with regard to the transport costs that the government has re-arranged because they went to heaven in previous years and the situation has become publicly uncontrollable. We have been thinking a lot, but I must say that the solutions that would be an alternative to internal supervision are not found by the Ministry or by another administrative body itself, i.e. the employer. The solution offered through an amendment to the committee to be supervised by an inspection seems really inappropriate to us. But now someone - for the first time, a work inspection is certainly inappropriate for something like this. The Labour Inspectorate protects the rights of employees, and it is not for them to detect their abuses. By the nature of the matter, the work inspectorate deals with abuse by the employer. What other inspection? Okay, maybe we could hire a man or two in a public administration inspection -- but how would it be better? In order for one ministry, for example, the Ministry of Public Administration, through its own inspection, to control all abuses throughout the public administration and that someone from the outside would solve the internal problems of individual organisations? I mean, I thought that idea was completely wrong. And so the idea of an idea that was falling, not a table; so, from idea to idea, we went and somehow we didn't find any other solutions. I am still convinced today that the other solution is not as if we are looking for abuse with internal mechanisms, so let us settle matters in the body and as with all other matters here exceptionally or if it is prudent to go after the so-called "outsourcing", i.e. for external expertise. That's what this is about. Secondly: I think all the time, in many debates on legal changes in public administration, this conceptual issue is raised. How much should the government use its mechanisms, its levers to regulate the administration, to introduce order in the administration, to prevent abuse and to improve services and to bring the user closer to the administration - that is, to citizens and businesses? There are two approaches here; one approach is to get the government back and say, "We in principle think that the administration is doing good" is the profession, all that the government does is professional, so let's leave it alone." The second concept is that the government is responsible for taking its powers and levers, which it has and is actively seeking to improve the administration. And that's the concept that this government is following. The results are also measurable, they can be proven, they can be tested, because of me you can go to the trade hall, you can go ask people who are coming to verify, say, signatures, on administrative units, but not to the notary, where this is at least 5 times more expensive, you can ask those who have extended the traffic permit via the Internet, you can go ask those who can report today, also in other places, not only where the state administration has ordered, but to give them some freedom and you can count on about 100 cases of such simplifications. We have simply decided to go forward actively in improving and will continue to do so until the end of the mandate. It is, of course, necessary to establish an infringement which has more serious consequences, i.e. a serious breach of the working relationship, to prove it and if the employer gives it away without proving it and without such infringements being made, such failure will of course fall. We have a committee for second-degree complaints, professionally, which also protects employers in the administration from falling cases in the Labour Court. In the administration of very few cases, the decision of employers falls to the Administrative Court, especially after the establishment of this Complaints Commission under the Law on Public Servants. So there's a whole bunch of security guards so we don't just bully and fire people. Much of what has been said today in the debate, including by opposers of this solution, of course, is true. Many of the conclusions made are true, but they do not give rise to the conclusion that this solution would not be appropriate. I agree, for example, with those who say that the problem of abstention, in particular in the absence of patients, is multilayered, that it is also connected to mobbing, that it is also related to the perhaps over-involuntary issue of hospital absences by the healthcare system. I agree with all of this. I don't see the problem in one layer, and I'm not saying that this law is the final solution. Not far away! We simply allow this law to be detected and prevented from being abused. And if you want, I'll give you two examples: I'd mention the case of someone who's at the hospital and who's at the hospital, say, "let's hit it," in the narrations, on the walk. Yes, of course, this does not necessarily mean a violation of the right to a hospital. Who says that? Depending on the type of disease - probably? If he notified the hospital because his legs are broken, it's probably an abuse if we find him on the walk. In many cases, however, this is not an abuse. But if someone notified a hospital because of, I don't know, high fevers and viruses, then they find him judging a football game, which was the case in one of the government authorities a while ago, which is probably an abuse. And that's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We're opening a new application procedure. Please, please. We have nine interviewees again. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Well, with the content of the new Article 33a of the Law on Public Servants, I have recently met slightly more when we were preparing everything we needed to meet with a good purpose, bearing the title The Question of Mental Violence in the Workplace. And through some knowledge, I have found that there is also a real sector in public administration - and not only do I know the real sector better. In the public administration, there is still some present fact that there are fewer and fewer employees among employees, but they remain superior and subordinate. And in some environments, this relationship is becoming as burdensome for some employee, where his work may be stressful for a type of person as it is inside. However, when an additional torment occurs in such an employee when his superior assumes that he may also begin to be burdened by a certain flaw that he has, it will eventually lead to a goal to which these employees are drawn. This, of course, is for the doctor and entry into the hospital stock. As set out in the new Article 33a, I firmly believe that this relationship between the superior and subordinates will continue to increase. Even then, when a certain employee is in the hospital, this deadline for some abuse of the presidency will extend to the hospital. And sooner than then, this case will end in court. I'm pretty sure. That is why I think that this approach should be taken in a slightly more dissuasive manner. I am in favour of reducing the abuses that are present and, above all, through an agreement that should be defined substantively in the Labour Relations Act. This entry into the public service system with a purpose such as 33a. The article now stands, I am sure - it will be counterproductive and let me finish. The last feeling - I can only have him like this - in this house is so that from some employee in this house smiles from the face, leaves. I can judge that, but I feel that the approach of some of the superiors in this house is not good. And as long as we design a tracking down of abuse on a basis like 33a. Article, I'm afraid this feeling of mine will be further confirmed. That's not what I'm for. I think we need to work this out. And I would say, if we are to achieve a goal, we need to set it slightly differently in terms of co-workers, in terms of partners, non-strikers, superiors, subordinates. This goes away from one of the desired goals after success in this area. Thank you. So I'm sure I support this amendment. It may sound strange, but I don't think it's in a situation that happens every day for someone that's critical.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u182	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this amendment must be supported for a number of reasons. In fact, the Ministry of Public Administration estimates that it is only necessary to control people who have up to 30 days of stock and that this control should be qualitative and comparable. What does that mean, of course, is not visible anywhere. But also the base, the basis of this is somehow invented, because there are no data available on this. The number of violations, the nature of these violations, not to mention why they are violations. Many colleagues have already been alerted to a number of issues that are, of course, related to working in the public administration, to relations, to different options, from how relationships develop from harassment and consequently escape to hospital stock, to overload and so on. That would probably be what we should explore. And, of course, then eliminate the causes of people going to the hospital. But the other thing is actually even more disgusting. It's detective surveillance and snooping, urging neighbors to give data, triple V. [[Everyone's a spy.]] . These are things that we've actually had before, and we've warmed up so much, first quietly, then out loud. Remember the 1970s and 1980s. In fact, remember that this was one of the reasons and reasons why Slovenia wanted and decided otherwise. These are things that we now reintroduce because someone -- I don't know -- is he bored and then writes things like that or feels like he has to apologize for his salary, his job. I tell you, it's better if you don't do anything. It will be more useful for you and for the people. And of course, if Mr. Secretary wants someone to say it's not good. So it would be the final conclusion that it's not appropriate and that it's not good, and I'll tell it. What this change offers is not good and not right. And that's why it's right to accept this amendment. In such a case, it would make sense to adopt the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you too, Comrade Gulic. The word has magic. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. I must express my full support for this amendment, which provides for the deletion of an article which, in my opinion, is destroyed by multiple angles of view. But before I start dealing with the article, I must, however, respond to the statement of the Minister, who unfortunately is not here at this moment, which reads: "He who has a good conscience is not afraid of control." I'm afraid of control. This is not the issue of conscience now. I'm afraid of control because control can be misused. Because it is up to the person exercising control, to what extent it is carried out, whether it is to be feared or not. If we do not need to be afraid of supervision, why have we adopted in the National Assembly a number of decisions or laws, provisions, amendments to laws that minimize control, which is urgently needed from the point of view of the prudent use of public funds and many other things not to list all that if this sentence is a statement and it can be absolutely understood? And I can't accept that interpretation, which was said a little earlier when the fake diplomas triggered the examination of diplomas. It was a one-time thing. It wasn't about changing the law, and now we're changing the law. The talk is about trust that we must trust that this control will not be misused, that it is good. Yes, why not turn the matter around and build on mutual trust among employees, which was discussed earlier? Today, there is a lot of talk about emotional intelligence that must be overcome by those who are supposed to be well-run by larger units, where they have to deal with people so that there is not something that becomes the phenomenon that we increasingly face. And this is human grading, psychological violence against employees. See, that's where I come in right now. This article directly introduces this because the first paragraph speaks of the fact that the chairman will direct some action when he receives some information where there will be grounds for suspicion. It is said that curiosity is already extremely great and that today's media are only developing this curiosity, and they are also imagining it so that it will not contribute to good human relations. Especially if it's true what the minister claims abuse is actually a very small part. How much are they? What are the reasons for this? We are not asking, but now, if we want this state, public administration to be really effective, user-friendly, if we are to take care of higher quality, I think that the leaders have enough tools to achieve this. And there should be no need for employees to flee to the abstention that has already been discussed. But there's no analysis of abstention. And if we are talking about efficiency and rational use of resources, then I am advocating measures that are well-directed, that know the objective. However, they can only know this if they are justified in the analysis and unfortunately we do not have them. I was talking about how we're going to encourage observation and information gathering. But I'm much more concerned in this article than the second paragraph. The chairman may authorize a public servant to collect information. And the second paragraph discusses what an authorized public servant can do. However, there is no indication as to whether this authorised public servant for the work he is doing is specifically installed or employed for the collection of information, or which public servant will also be described in the description of the works and tasks to be done in accordance with the proposed article. This is a whole series of things that I can't answer and that I can answer that may be written down directly so that the chairman can decide on external control for the detective control of abuses referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. I can't take over the hint that was at the beginning that someone with a clean conscience is not afraid of control. So all of us who resist this article do not have a clean conscience or are even more corrupt and supportive of abuse. I am very pleased that we have heard from one of our colleagues today a very large movement in terms of the resolution of abuses. When we talked about the allocation of social assistance and transfers, it was almost out of the question that all the unemployed were lazy and those benefiting from social assistance. And we have taken certain measures based on that. Now, on the basis of some abuses, we are changing the law. But today it was possible to hear proposals in a different direction to ask ourselves: What are the reasons for this? I, excuse me, have also received an invitation in the National Assembly as an elected Member to report on how many times I have come to the National Assembly. And that's in case I don't get any special travel expenses because I have an office apartment. I have a clear conscience about this. I can prove how many times I've been in the National Assembly. Some people are even in the way. And they think I'm too busy. But why should data be collected and reported if the owners of the service apartment have the right to a one-time reimbursement of travel expenses? But I am reminding you of this because in that letter and in the measures taken in this National Assembly, it is possible to track down a number of measures that point to the tight supervision of employees in the National Assembly. And I don't know where this is going to end. And not everyone has an excuse to be more rational, not to mention that maybe someone is even talking about abuse. What about those abuses that the employer even said to the camera and didn't hide that he had specifically ordered detective control, because he knew that the disabled worker who burned down in the workplace had a very sick wife and that he was going to visit her? He said he knew that. And he wasn't just this worker, but there were three others that the employer wanted to get rid of, because they cost him too much. But these abuses, we're not gonna talk about them? And because it is possible to supervise with detectives in the private sector, workers will be subjected to bad habits and bad practices from there to the state administration. I'm sorry, I really don't understand some things. I do not understand, in particular, because this Government is also preparing another proposal for a law in which it is possible to read a much different solution, which does not have any time limits on how long this control is possible, while speaking about the supervision of workers who are in hospital, talking about controlling the use of travel costs and other cases. What are those other cases of surveillance? And I don't know, I have a vivid imagination, and I can imagine a lot of things that other cases might be. I think that anyone who wants to have an effective administration who wants to have a friendly administration should look for measures aimed at making employees feel good about their jobs. Has Minister Virant ever listened to the experience of those employees in the last year before their retirement, the pressures they face, so that they do not give any thought to trying to reach an agreement with the employer that even after one condition of retirement has been met they may conclude yet, or for a certain period of time, that they may receive a pension bonus, continue their work? As a Member, and as President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I could talk to you about the hardships of those people who are addressing us with such experiences, but Minister Virant said that this would be a consensus agreement. There is no consensus agreement in such cases. After the fastest and shortest way to retirement. However, we have pointed out that the labour force in the state administration was highly fluctuated about the hospital, and there has been a lot of speech. I hope Minister Virant really does not believe that only 7 or 8 employees have changed jobs or been dismissed, because he probably does not believe that everyone else left voluntarily for personal reasons or received offers that could not be resisted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you, too. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I signed up for two reasons. One is to say once again that I have not heard any debaters in this Chamber object to control. And no one wants anyone else to work instead of anyone else and to hire anyone for unjustifiable hospitals for a certain or indefinite period of time. But we speak only in this direction so that things don't get abused, especially in cases where we hire detectives. Any wise leader, if he can do it by law, will hire a detective who will have as much perpetuity as possible, which means that he will design as many stories as possible, that he will always and again be hired to do the job and to get as many people into the process as possible. The second is, unfortunately, we live at a time when we read in a newspaper or somewhere else, when for certain people every hour, a minute where you were, who you were with, where you were, where you were and who was in the other room and so on. And that this service would not be abused for similar purposes. The second reason I came by again is when my colleague Petan said, "Let's not mix carrots and potatoes." The arguments against this amendment are exactly what happens to mixing carrots and potatoes. Now I'm going to say a little botanical agronomically, "The root can only be a carrot. For human consumption, it's smaller, it's smaller, it's smaller, it's smaller. Botanical or formal can also be a dog, never a potato." Why did I say that? This article, this amendment has nothing to do with diplomas. And this was confused by Comrade Petan and unfortunately also by Mr Minister. I don't think he's among those who have diplomas or who don't have diplomas and never have them to have anyone have an unjustifiable diploma. But the story is being solved in a completely different way and not in this law, by chance not in this article and not in this amendment. Let us be consistent and correct and consider things as they are before us. And to conclude. But this time I will be very surprised if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you, too. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. When I meet people like this, they talk about how difficult it is to deal with the kind of psychological pressures they experience in the workplace. Not only because of the burden of the nature of work, but because of the relations that rule in certain collectives. And, of course, they want to reach those years as soon as possible when they can go to peace and somehow secure a mentally debilitated period of life. Of course that's what he's worried about. And I have discussed this through the content of this article, because to simplify things and to say that it is to the chairman and to give the chairman a free thought that he will assess that he has information on the basis of which the grounds for suspicion are given. What kind of people we are talking about as qualifications is that he will assess that he now has information, which is suspected and how he will evaluate the continuation of this information. Is she well-intentioned, malicious, real, unrealistic? About the consequences that it will cause by continuing some procedures or initiating some procedures, but I tried to talk to you earlier and we are actually talking to you debaters here for a few hours. And if Mr Minister can say that, within the framework of the EPP, it is for this government that a number of measures have been taken. For example, even with a driver’s license or anywhere, it can truly be said that this is measurable. But I am saying that today we are taking measures that cannot be measured so easily with such simple operational reinforcements. You don't want to hear warnings about this here today. For we are talking about that the termination of the employment relationship will be possible to defend against measures in court. But I'm talking about all these procedures in between. As soon as information on suspicion is established, it is likely that this measure will result in the cancellation of the employment relationship. Who today is thinking about these consequences in the context of ensuring a friendly state administration? Do you really believe that, for example, someone who abuses, 99 employees, or 99 employees who abuse one of them, so that, for example, when we detect this abuse, by looking for information from the collective, we can actually create that suspicion with one another and that it will not be possible to enforce the common. I think of the common principle of friendly public administration. Who else will give any information in terms of who wants to talk to whom, if they are automatically suspected of being able to give information about someone who may then be the reason for the investigation or control against someone who may be abused? And tell me, what will be the responsibility and what are the measures if it is found that this, in fact, will be a well-intentioned measure to prevent abuse in a different direction? Do you know how much sympathy and antipathy there is among the coworkers? And if every antipathy and we add to it our characteristic habit of "greeting" is supported by this, we will always find someone who will say, "Hop, this one seems to me to be at this point." And, of course, after looking into the records and when it is possible to look at who has participated in these proceedings, I do not imagine, even if there is suspicion, even if the suspicion is rejected and unproven, how pleasant will working relations be in such a collective? I am not talking about the fact that abuses could go even as far as was said today - to be misused for political purposes. That's not what I'm talking about. For to me this seems to be unacceptable, an impossible event. I am talking about normal situations that will take place on the basis of the options proposed by this article. Consider these consequences. For if we come from the need to build an open society in Slovenia, that we will really have the opportunity to create and talk freely about ideas and differences between us, then of course do not create a completely different image in Slovenian society, which in fact through control measures, which go very far, giving powers that can be very unforeseeablely controlled. In this case, let us, of course, make some stop to consider and support the amendment to delete this article. I'm sure that would make it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u189	Thank you, too. The Secretary of State also made a statement. Rap. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members. I would just like to give a different view than this dilemma - the President's free judgment when he decides on this possible measure. It is a mechanism, as has already been said today. When there is some information that there may be an abuse, the chairman may also have the opportunity to check them before deciding on any further steps. When we ask ourselves about the President’s free judgment and possible consequences, of course, we should also ask ourselves: ‘ What is it, then, with the President’s free judgment or decisions, when he decides to take disciplinary action and when he authorizes someone to carry out this disciplinary action and disciplinary action can have extremely severe consequences? Finally, the termination of the employment relationship. Of course, it's the chairman who has the chance. That is why he is the chairman, so he is the manager and, of course, must be able to judge decisions and, of course, must also have arguments for such measures. And today, of course, we are talking about one mandatory urban phase. Before deciding on the worst - it is said - the introduction of the disciplinary procedure will now have the opportunity to check some indications whether they hold or not. And of course, in the article itself, of course, there are also -- I'll say -- safeguards or mechanisms. You yourself have mentioned some of the facts before you even decide to make any action. So the conversation's a start. And, of course, after some discussion, if these violations continue, of course, all the other possible mechanisms run out. And with regard to the dilemma - honourable Members - regarding the authority in the second paragraph. Of course, it is not about public servants who would have this written down or who would have it written down in the description of the works and tasks, for, of course, they would not need the authority to do so. The chairman will be the one to judge a circumstance and decide whether or not to authorize someone. This mechanism, of course, has this option under Article 25 of the Civil Servants Act and, of course, depending on the collective, depending on the situation, it will, of course, judge who will be able to do so. But if, of course, this is more rational, more prudent, he will be able to make up his mind about the option that most of the words are running today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u191	Thank you, too. Replica, Member of the State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. You know, one more thing I'm worried about about is an authorized public servant who's going to be able to gather information. What if this authorised public servant does not wish to be authorised for the activity entrusted to him by the chairman? And nowhere did she protect anyone for anything to happen to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u193	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u194	Short answer. Article 94 of the Civil Servants Act has this mechanism and this safeguard if any authorised public official does not wish to do so, he has every opportunity not to do so. Even so, he may meet in his daily life, a daily work with a task that he would not want to perform under such or other circumstances. That is why this mechanism is also given into marriage so that such an assignment can also be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you. We continue the discussion on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Given that there have been several hours of debate on this particular provision already on the working body, that it has been in today's session for several hours now, I will attach my own ticket to this debate so that it will be a little longer. In a debate that's made out of elephant flies. And I'll tell you why first. I will not support the proposed amendment. It is because of the debate that I am getting a feeling, and it is my view that we are looking at this issue differently or that we are setting it up. The amendment's proposers consider that this provision, the purpose of which is to control and control the abuse of absence from work or abuse of the hospital and the abuse of the exercise of travel costs, that it is an invasion of privacy, that it offends the individual's dignity, that control is unnecessary, that it is unprofessionally unacceptable, that it is abused and so on. And others among those whom I am, who are convinced that the purpose has been set, however we read it, to reduce the absence from work and to reduce the cost of transporting to work and from work to those who unjustifiably abuse the absence of a hospital for up to 30 days and unfairly impose transport costs. And the result, if so, will be to protect those public servants, the majority who are conscientious, conscientiously fulfilling their work obligations and must do their job at the expense of the absence of those who abuse the hospital's absence, because the work must be done. And that's certainly not motivation for them. It's not the motivation that they have to work for someone who isn't and who's abusing it. And the second is to also save one part of the taxpayer's money paid for the abuse of payment for transport to and from work. Can anyone claim that these abuses do not occur? That's what was said. No one's opposed to that. But I haven't heard from anyone about how to stop it. Abuse. Anyone with a mandate can abuse his or her powers. Every leader, every mayor. A few mayors are here, including Members of Parliament. They can abuse their powers, and they can abuse any abuses. The Minister may also abuse his powers, and the judge may abuse his powers. Anyone with a mandate can abuse him. And control can be misused, but we can't generalize it. We can't generalize. We're talking in today's debate. That's what we're asking. Control will be misused. Any public servant will have a detective at his door. The detective's gonna run out! Please! And in order, I repeat, to be able to write this, to exercise control, it is also necessary to have a clear basis for marriage. And this provision gives this legal basis so that it can, cannot be, and will be, but will be possible if the chairman so decides. That's the point. And there could be some kind of chairman who's going to abuse it. I don't deny it. Here I see the essence of this definition. Dear colleague Rezman said: "This provision imposes upon me control." No, he's not ordering him, but he'll be able to use control of a staff member as mayor in a certain case, but he doesn't. And we really need to ask ourselves, do we want to prevent the abuse of individuals at the expense of all the other majority, 98% of the number of public officials who are conscientious and honest and must also do work for these absent persons, or do we want to work with some kind of political rhetoric from, say, the fly to do the elephant? Let me be more specific. From the populist political debate that I have sometimes heard on my left, which has now moved to my right, to frighten public servants, because such intimidation and such a debate can be very quickly received by individual people. There's also been a speech that we don't trust doctors. Doctors are just people, too, and they're wrong. I'll tell you from my own practice. He was a coworker who said he had a broken collarbone. He was wrapped up, he was in the hospital, and he accidentally got caught up in a TV camera because there was a certain transmission that he was doing some work that he couldn't do with a broken keyhole. The doctor made a mistake. And after a brief procedure, he was no longer my associate. I myself look at this problem of abuse of absence at the expense of the hospital from my own, I would say, also working practices and also with these eyes. I don't know why not compare the public sector with the public administration. And if you mention the public sector, it's blasphemous in this house, blasphemous. Yeah, what's the difference? However, the difference is that the public sector is put under competition. And competition forces him to make the most of it. You won't believe that companies with a 12. 15% absence have fallen below 5% today's absence. But one of the measures I'm going to tell you that doesn't have major effects is control. And far from being the most important one. It's very minimal, and above all, it has a psychological character. And here's my connection, the private sector and the public sector. What is the problem of public administration? The problem is that in this Slovenia the only one is that he is a monopoly, that he has no competition, that nothing forces him to change, to optimize. That's the problem with this public administration, that it's a flow system. And I'm not going to fall out. I don't know, too much grave, too many fellow debaters coming out of the public administration. And any change that is being made, as well as previous innovations in public administration, has always encountered resistance. They've always run into resistance. And when you snooze in this taboo, where the minister in charge of public administration intervenes, he gets the criticism. He's having a bit of a review. But with persistence, he's moving these things for the better. And so is it. I don't criticize public servants so I don't get the wrong idea. Public servants are good workers, excellent workers are also among them. But you also have "guilty" as everywhere. I'm criticizing the system in which this public servant works. This one has to change. This one has to be modernised. This must become flexible, economical, optimal. It has to adapt to users. These are citizens and citizens, not that citizens and citizens are adapting to this system. That's the point. And here this government and Minister Virant have done a lot. I believe that this provision, paragraph 33a introduces a soft method of control. He opens up, he can speak if he chooses to do so, by talking first and warning the individual. Now I will tell you from my own experience that surveillance does not have any significant effects. It can be for an individual and there are no significant effects in the global. And in the modern organization of work, which is also introduced into public administration, there are other methods known, other receptions, among which control is only one of the measures and these methods, you cannot prescribe these measures in law, you cannot prescribe them in law. It's a matter of leadership. Carriers must be managers, they must be leaders, they must be all hierarchical leaders. This requires knowledge of leadership, creation, in particular, positive climates, motivations, teamwork. There is also much to contribute to the conversation between the chairman and the worker who came from the hospital to be interested. Talk to a doctor, talk to a social worker, sociologist and so on and so forth. The methods are known and I think that famous Slovenian companies, successful companies competing in the developed world, can learn something there. The chairman, who will build his work on reducing absence from work, with supervision, and also with detectives, with inspections, is not a wise supervisor. I'm telling you, he's an incompetent leader and needs to be replaced quickly. The wise chairman will use it for exceptional individual cases and abuses, for which the normal working environment or associates know very well and that they are abused, demoted, and annoyed. And in such a case, the wise chairman must act. Therefore, the fear of investors of the amendment that surveillance is unacceptable, that it is offensive, that it is unnecessary to abuse. I don't think it's justified and I won't support this amendment myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u197	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you very much. You know, with private detectives, respected colleagues, or a colleague, he just doesn't protect his workers. Who told you that? Don't joke! Last but not least, you mentioned the psychological nature. Yes, but what is the introduction of private investigators into the public sector other than the psychological character of private detectives, a psychological character on workers. It's a threat, pressure, nothing else. Unfortunately, this is the introduction to public administration of uncertainty, fear and uncritical obedience. And this is bad for the whole public administration system, and in the first place for every individual employee you want to be, you don't want to be, under that threat. It's a psychological effect of conduct or such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First of all, I thank Mr Petan for the solidarity he expressed in his speech and adapted the debate to all nine Members before him, and I hope for the same solidarity when we vote on the amendment and, of course, I will support the amendments because of my sense of solidarity. We are talking about public servants because it is the title of the Law on Public Servants. As long as you are afraid that something will be transferred to the civil sphere, I expect Mr Petan to propose a law banning detectives in the civil sphere. 30,000 employees, 90 counterfeit diplomas. I'll tell you, if you were a detective, if you had detectives at the time, there would have been, I don't know, 25 grand in your opinion. But even if there were one more, besides these people who faked the diplomas, all the chiefs of staff would have to fly because they didn't find out sooner. And if I keep going. Soft methods, soft receptions. The man with the gun is hunting the patient. It's a soft reception. Yeah, what does it look like? 8x8 for the patient, or what does it look like? Then again, what else can we give the bazooka to the detective to hunt him down? I don't believe what you're saying. It's nonsense and nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you. I must say a very interesting and amusing debate, and I would like to give my own to this debate. I didn't want to replicate it to the Minister before, and it was obvious that the presentation of the position of the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia had been somewhat confused. However, let me add a few points of view to these points. Obviously, if I've listened to my colleagues, then the situation in the state administration is so bad that I expect someone in the position to file such an interpretation against the minister because people are obviously getting sick, bluffing and lying about transporting to work. But on the other hand, I'm listening to a minister who says there's practically no problem at all. And now he's become one of the most important problems in this country and one of the areas that needs to be regulated by law, just how we're going to supervise with public service detectives. I think the problem is about as banal as we're going to cut down the entire forest because of one diseased tree. That's what's going on. The minister speaks some great and fantastic numbers as to how much we'll save. Yes, we will save by that system'ma, we have to save 100 euros, let it come as much as it wants, if that's ten times as much'. This is something that I simply find difficult to agree with and interesting on the wallpaper was also the Law on Detective Activity. Of course, this is obviously one of the cardinal mistakes of the previous government. Of course, I wasn't in my previous term, and I wasn't in my previous office. But I think, Mr. Secretary, that you were there at the time. When I was reviewing the magnetograms this afternoon, I didn't see the debate that you, as Secretary of State, were protesting something against this Law on Detective Activity. You obviously liked him back then, but today everything is wrong with him. I suggest that you make a rapid change to the government to resolve this matter, but that we be more serious. But there was something serious and good. A debate such as, say, Mr Petty Officer. That's the look ahead. These things aren't solved by detectives, by surveillance, who are going to stare into the bedroom every day, but by other methods. That's the right way forward. I therefore propose that we accept this amendment to Article 1. A marriage that won't be so bad if there's no such thing as extremes. Let's fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you, too. I'm reopening the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I was in the middle of a dilemma whether or not I would have answered, because I think the situation is already a little tragic. When I started reading this thing, I was surprised that I was convinced that this was already possible, that it was possible in the public sector to control the execution of these things. Why was I so sure? I'll tell you two specific cases. They both happened during another government, not now. At the time of the government, which was obviously more liberal, more open, more democratic, it did not grip people's necks as you would now like to attribute it to the current government. And at the time of that so-called democratic government, which was, on the outside, really like this, with the measures that she was taking, far from that, there was a case 11 years ago when one of the former directors of a public institution on the third day of the hospital visited a detective and came to see how he felt about the hospital. He knocked on the door, made a record. He wrote that this former director was not feeling well, and he left. This is the first case. It's normal for this man who sent this detective back then to abuse the powers he had. And that's why he couldn't be a successful CEO for a long time. Very quickly, natural selection has done its part. But in this case, we can't generalize all things. We can't cut the woods because of one dry tree. I think that would be a mistake. That would be a mistake. However, the second case is in the opposite direction. There, however, was a public servant who had been employed until some year ago in one of the repressive ministries. He's been in the hospital for months. At the same time, he went to a private company where the director was, and in some of the control councils, his hair didn't go wrong. Why was that possible? Was that normal? In one case, there was an abuse of power, and in the other case, those who were obliged to supervise and act in the interests of the countries did not use that authority. Is it therefore appropriate to amend regulation where supervision is required? The problem is up to 30 days. What about over 30 when the Department of Health Insurance controls? Is their control unnecessary and out of place? Because we're only talking for 30 days. We have forgotten, however, that this period is not, because we already have these powers in the law and we know that this control is being carried out. That's part of the story. Because I think we pay too much attention to the matter and only look at it from one perspective. And what I felt today in this debate is one of the great fears that the leaders or those who have been given these powers will abuse. And I don't know why or what this fear comes from. It is undeniable that it is impossible to prevent abuse. It's impossible to stop. Never 100% will the system work in such a way that whoever has the authority to never be tempted to abuse it. You can't do that. That's clear. But because of one sweep of the cases of all the other 99, we would not solve, we would not guarantee the possibility of being solved in this way, even if the provision would become just a prevention. While the matter does not seem to me to be so important and essential that a few hours of debate today will be given. I think there are a lot of other cases and problems in this country that might be worth talking about. Any leading official in the public sector in public administration who works well, who wants to work effectively, wants his fellow workers to be motivated. And those who approach in this way, who can encourage these people to do their best, will be successful and the whole country will succeed. And so it must be possible for someone who doesn't fit in with this group to say, "Sorry, this place isn't about dealing with some problems that aren't our problems. Find yourself a place somewhere else, anyway." Because I think we need to get used to the fact that jobs are not concrete and that doors are open at any time. Each of us voluntarily enters into this relationship. He's not trying to force anyone into anything. And when we enter into this, it is good to know what rules we are entering into and what will happen to us if we do not follow these rules. I just don't see myself, I don't know if it's necessary to write these things into marriage or if they can be arranged in a different way. Otherwise, I think we have too many fears about this matter, too big. I can compare them to those fears if you remember when it came to changing the law that some of you have discussed today. And when it was said, I think it was said to the personnel tsunami that hundreds, some said thousands of employees on the basis of this novel, which we then adopted, would be dismissed or dismissed. I've said this once before, and today I'll say it again even if anyone blames me. Because they didn't do well, they weren't replaced enough. There are still some people in responsible places in this public sector that I must say publicly here that they are not doing well and that it would be right for those who are willing and willing to do well to take their seats. That's right. It's the same way in the company. Anyone who gets into a relationship has to be aware that he has to give the maximum of himself, otherwise he's better off not being there. And no big fears and no big fears about it. So that I think that the fears that have been exposed to the extent that has been said today will not come true and that it is not as important a novel as some of you attribute to it. After all, these relationships last up to 30 days. There's a lot harder where these things are being monitored by the health insurance office, where the problems are probably a lot deeper, and nobody, at least I haven't noticed, apologized if anyone has pointed out this because I've listened to it in the office, didn't deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u206	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! When I have been listening to this debate for a few hours now, I could say that it is a good debate about not too important things in our society and that it is, of course, more about creating a storm in a glass. But we can remember, of course, some of the times, some of the times we had in this country, when people were far from working. I know when it was necessary to do some farm work and so on, but they took the hospital and stayed home for a few days, did that and went to work and nobody was worried about it. We have just come to a situation where the socialist system, which some claim to have been successful today, has collapsed itself because of its success. In the course of the night, he failed because we ruled as we ruled. Then we got some new social order. What we are talking about today is long established in the economic sector. I don't know if it's made in some detail, if a system like it works is fair, fair, correct, but there is. It is said that this novelty is being extended today only to another segment, which is always, so to speak, the area of non-economics, which has always been in a somewhat privileged position towards the economy in this country. In the non-economic sector, wages have been increasing, jobs have been guaranteed, they also pay each month at a certain time, which, of course, does not apply to the economy. There's a whole different situation. If workers in the workplace do not create enough, if a new value is not created, then the work will be lost or not paid and so on. And I don't know what everyone who works on running tapes every day thinks about this debate here when they listen to us. After all, it would probably be right for us Members, and for the mayors, and so on, someone sometimes oversaw and looked at where we were when we were supposed to be here in this house, or to defend us, but to work in the interests of this country. I have to say in person that as far as this is concerned, I don't see any big problem. But the problem can be of a technical nature. That's what my fellow Member of the Mags used to say. A trifle how you do it in practice. Of course, any thing can be abused. No one is immune before that, and we will never get a system that is perfect. It seems to me that this abuse is probably the most common when it comes to "abuse" in connection with some situations. I remember a time when I worked in the government, and my wife was already in a company where she couldn't afford a hospital. Because they were little kids, they were sick, I kind of took advantage of this hospital, and then one day my boss said to me, "You know, if I had a chance, I'd check out why she's sick so many times." It was hard for me, but there was no other way. The baby's sick. I had to have a hospital. And if this angina was repeated from month to month, then it took time. I've never had a hospital to myself. So this may be a problem for the mother, for example, in the workplace and we should look at this with a little more sensitivity. But it is, and I agree with that, and it has always been, and it will be that some take advantage of this situation. Then those who do well who work hard feel in some uncomfortable situation when they see that someone can take advantage of this possibility. In such a way that the system should be founded or have a purpose, it should somehow eradicate these matters from society. It'll never be complete. But to do so with a measure of compassion, a sense of patience, actually. And there's one more thing I'd like to say that I hear here a lot. Mrs Potrate is not, she left when we amended the Labour Relations Act and we changed or introduced the condition that someone who is unemployed should also take the job offered at a lower educational level, here we listened by the parties to the left-wing province to the same debate as today. No one has spoken, Mrs. Potrata, if you read it in a magnetogram or if you hear me, they're lazy. You made that up, and you put it in our mouth, and somehow you wanted to argue your opposition. No one really spoke. Look, it's really hard when you're out of a job. I think it's the hardest thing in some society. And when that changes, we can see that the unemployment rate has begun to decline. And that was why this change was established, which you were very strongly opposed to at the time. I agree with Mrs Potrate's conclusion, which said that she sometimes has a very active imagination. So she also had it back then, and this is how some of these things are being presented in public today. Let me get this straight. If the matter in practice really worked the way it was intended, then I do not see any fun in this change in the law. But if it were to be abused, of course, it is also possible to deal with it in some way and predict that it would be a possible means of abuse. In some cases, though, someone might want to get rid of someone in one way or another in the workplace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives, nice greeting! In view of the experience I have, both in the public administration and in the economy, where I have led in one way or another, I can say that it has never been necessary to intervene with such drastic measures. But it seems to me that it is more important to know what the employer’s attitude is or is supposed to be to the group in charge. Just the fact that you meet with them in the morning or in a factory or in an office and come with lips down, winky eyes, no greetings, good morning or otherwise, good morning with a smile, how are you doing, I wish you a good day, that we will be successful, etc., is very important or essential to the feelings of these people in the ministry and their engagement, for their activity, for their work and also for whether they will think during their working hours about what to do, how to avoid it, whether to seek sick or something like that. Or in other words. If employees either in a company or in a public administration, wherever they are, in the morning, when they get up and say "her, her back to work" or say "fine, new day", they are happy to go to work, of course, the most important thing. Therefore, I think it is important or most important that we create stimulating and pleasant conditions for workers in the economy or in the economy. That these conditions are stimulating and good depends, of course, on the individual’s sense of belonging in this collective. Of course, this also depends on everything else, such as wages, as well as other options it has, education, completion, advancement and so on. If we stop at the wages, I'll stop here on purpose. Since we are in the EU, we mainly have costs, petrol, rent, clothing, food and so on, a car, mainly European prices. Wherever we buy one or the other, it's basically comparable. Pays aren't or they're not yet. That's why I think this part of the amendment is talking about the cost of transporting to work and exploiting it, I'm going to say, a little too strictly written down. Given that this part, the second part of the first paragraph of this amendment, is actually tanning only those workers who travel to work from peripheral areas to urban settlements because they live somewhere far away and so on. In general, this does not tange those who can use local transport in urban settlements. It should also be taken into account that these people are two, three, four, five hours more on the road each day and away from home, where they also have to do, mothers, wives, whatever else, anything that comes to the gentler sex. That they are also exposed to so much and so much more and every day to traffic and accidents, which are unfortunately too large, far too large on our roads. This, of course, is also a fact. And if there were two or three of them driving together or sometimes sleeping with a fellow urban worker, saving a tolar or thus raising their social standard for everything else, I don't think it's the most blasphemous. In this way, colleagues and colleagues, some of you who were in the government at the time, condemned me when I told you about the payphone, also helped students not to pay for their dormitory and lived in the House of Representatives of Franz Pukšič for free. Those who wanted badly for these students said they were paying, I don't know what, far from it, of course, no. Because then I wouldn't talk about it on my own, and I'm proud to ever be able to help someone.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u209	My friend Pukšič, I allow for a very broad debate, but only a little too far. Please, if you stick to the contents of the amendment or at least the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u210	Mr President, if you read the amendment, you'd know that I'm sticking to the contents of the amendment and you obviously didn't have time to do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u211	My friend Puksic, you're an undisclosed employee. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u212	The obligations you have, of course, I believe there is a great deal [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u213	You did not specify an amendment anywhere [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u214	But let me speak because I'm talking about the amendment. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u215	My friend Puksich!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u216	And I'm talking about transport to work. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u217	I'll be the judge of that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u218	From the work, from the powers and so on, from the staff. [[...]] In short, I'm talking about it. In the second paragraph, I am somewhat concerned about the part where he says that an authorised public servant will also be able to gather information from a third party. The rest is kind of acceptable, but from the third person, we'll have registration numbers on some sheet, when we know, of course, who are all those inspectors or possible to control us, as we now have in the car registration numbers of cars, police when they're driving on the road and whether they're following us, they're following us or not. So, around these third parties, I think it's a little rough. I agree with the government. I agree with the Minister that certain things need to be sanctioned when they are found to be anomalies, definitely and this is very clearly without a pardon. I agree with that. It's not like that. It's not like that. In fact, I say what people have told me, some general climate of fear, although I agree with those debaters who said that, of course, this law or this amendment does not bring as much fear as we speak of it. I believe not. But it seems to me that this amendment should be somewhat refined in these parts. You know, like you heard about some sick people being used. Of course, that's how I can say it's mostly about this exploitation, which has come to light. So those who are in higher positions, not those who are the lowest. And one more thing, it's going the other way. I'm afraid I have too much experience, not my own experience, but the experience of a Member's office when a medical committee sends someone to work that can't stand. When the doctor extended 30 days later, they do not take this into account because they simply do not look at the patient, but simply reject the matter in the office. So, of course, the matter is quite complex. I would like myself to be as kind to people as possible and that people, as I said, in the morning when they get up and go to work, will go with some satisfaction, with hope, with joy that they can still do it. I'll back the amendment myself. Especially because it is in the second reading, and because of this it will be possible to correct it slightly in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u219	My friend Zagorac, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. I'd politely ask you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u221	Just a second, 'cause time's running out. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u222	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. I would politely ask you to stop all those debaters who are not talking about the amendment, the amendment that we are actually discussing. My friend Pukšič, I believe everything you just said. I also agree with most of what you just said, but you don't have the right amendment. The amendment we are talking about today has no second paragraph. It just says, "Member is deleted." I don't know what should be modulated here, complemented, talked. You really don't have the right amendment. You're a little off course, perhaps you, perhaps your professional associates. But that's not the reason you're condemning your esteemed president that he hasn't read anything. You missed the amendment. But I'm glad you'll support the amendment we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you for your warning. So it is not my duty to inform you that the amendment is only in one sentence and not in two paragraphs, as you said, but we are continuing the debate. My colleague Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u224	Thank you. We heard, "He who enters a working relationship must give the maximum of himself." If this first article were true, you stole a few seconds from me, and now 10 detectives would come into this room, and they would take or list at least 20% of the Members. If I were recorded, I'd be in the hospital, probably being supervised by another detective who wouldn't be objective and leave him alone so that the first detective in the hospital could still walk a little. Thirdly, I was in a development partnership with Achilles on two bergles in a meeting with the Prime Minister. The TV shot me. I had to go in a week. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Go to the Ministry of Labour, Health Insurance. [[...]] What else would it be if this marriage were in force, please? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u225	My friend Barovich, thank you. And Member Ljubo Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that again. So I notified myself to the debate for the reason that he reasoned on the non-support to this amendment that this article should be deleted, colleague Ljubeljšek. I don't know if he's been engaged or if there's really an ambition to have detectives or procedures to identify the reasons or to justify the suspicion that a public servant is using the right to abstain from illness or injury so that the doctor can be wrong. He stated that because doctors are misleading, the meaning of the text in this article is, of course, justified. This raises a very serious question: How far does the ambition of the text of this article go? Because if anyone has any idea that the detective is going to check whether the diagnosis was correct, whether the behavior of someone is consistent with the diagnosis, and that the detective is going to check these things, then I am significantly more concerned about the meaning of this text, which this article brings. I hope that colleague Ljubeljšek has made a mistake and that there is no ambition in any case, given that if the government coalition supports this, it would be possible for the detectives to check whether the doctor who ordered a medical measure with a diagnosis did the right thing or did a professional error. I hope that in no case would the actions of those who exercise control or control over these go so far. And that, of course, colleague Ljubeljšek expressed the thought as a lapsus, not as a reality of understanding this text. For if this is an intention, then of course I am even more convinced that this amendment should be adopted and deleted, which is now enshrined in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u227	Thank you, too. I'm asking, can I close the debate? Thank you. So since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the next two sentences, that is at 7 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll continue, as we say, at 7 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u228	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. Here you go, Mr. Potch. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u229	Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u230	Procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u231	Colleagues and colleagues, I have a procedural proposal, which I propose that we decide to move to a point - a mandate-based electoral matter, which is point 19f - to a proposal for the appointment of a Vice-President of the National Assembly, to postpone to a time when the College, on the basis of an agreement between the parliamentary groups, will also prepare a proposal for the allocation of seats and managerial functions within the framework of the working bodies of the National Assembly. I ask that you support this proposal and that we take these decisions together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group? I guess not. Then we vote on this proposal. The vote is under way. Of the 66 Members present, 66 voted in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] In this way, I note that the proposal by Mr Purchast's Member has been adopted. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 2. We're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 66 votes in favour. For 58, against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under Article 3. We're voting. I note that 67 Members and Members voted. For 11, versus 47. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 2. We're voting. There were 68 votes in favour and 68 votes in favour. 18 to 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the government's amendment to Article 27. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to this Article shall become irrelevant under number 2. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted 46 to 14. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This made the second amendment irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the government's amendment to Article 30. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 55 in favour against 7. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 36. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 55 against 5. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 36a. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted for 52, against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the government's amendment to Article 38. We're voting. There were 68 votes in favour and 52 against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 42a. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 54 in favour against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 79. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted for 56 to 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 83. We're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 49 against 9. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 84. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment to this Article under numbers 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] The amendment was adopted, leaving two amendments irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the government's amendment to Article 98. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We're moving on to a decision on the law. Please, on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With the adoption of amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the proposed text of the law, the Government will prepare the harmonisation amendments to the Proposal for a Spatial Planning Act by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I note that the government will prepare a harmonisation amendment and we will continue this point tomorrow with the coordination procedure at the last point. That's what I'm breaking up with. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Servants. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the substantively identical amendments of the SNS, SD, NP to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, I can say that we will support the amendment. They have supported us for a reason because, as far as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia convinces us, we have the confidence of a credible and friendly state administration, which from day to day is better, nicer, more humane and service to these words of the Minister in our presentation, we will support the amendment because I have the feeling that this public administration will no longer be so kind, it will no longer be so helpful, it will no longer be so homogeneous from within, if we place on their doors detectives who will find out in all this confidence, who of those 2% after statistics is the one who abuses the law. I think that this is absolutely unnecessary in view of the Minister's introduction to such a public administration. Several members of the ruling coalition also agreed. I thank them for their support for making one exception for the first time and for supporting one amendment that does not come from their kind. I sincerely hope, given that the vote has not yet been that they will keep their word, at least make sense. After all, all the Members and Members who have that feeling of humanity and not hatred for your fellow worker will be pleased to support such an amendment. But if you feel that in your kind, our kind, among your professional colleagues, among others, who do in this public administration that someone is abusing or hoping to abuse the law in the way someone wanted to present it, it is true that he was in a minority today. I think that of all the Members who spoke, only three were such as to say that our public administration is such that it is necessary to pursue it with detectives, and then you have a problem within the organisation. People in public administration aren't so bad that they need to be put behind their necks by detectives. They're not lying. You're lying 2%. Believe me, we're not gonna save this 2% with the detectives. Thank you very much for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It was 31 votes against 35. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, what do you want? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, precisely because the amendment has not been adopted, I will not support the law, but I am speaking now on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, or all three members, who are sitting today in the vote. There's more than one reason. I estimate that the law, in the form it was adopted at second reading, will only increase the pressure on the whole of public administration. And that, as I said in my previous performances, is bad. The work of the public administration is carried out by respected colleagues and colleagues, including by the action of private detectives uncertainty, fear and, as I said, uncritical obedience. There is a threat, pressure is put in, and this is not, respected colleagues and colleagues, nothing more than stepping up the so-called'mobbing', which has recently also been and above all - and these are official data - in public administration increasingly. And I will say it again, although in my opening presentation, several times, I was reminded by the Minister, after all, I said the word "sorry". Yeah, I'm sorry. I do not regret my performance and do not regret my opposition to such an autocratic act. But I'm sorry that the minister with a handful of cynicism or, if you like, a touch of humor supports such an ugly, horrifying act. Once again, we will not support such a law on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Today, it has been said that the vote on the amendment to Article 1 is one of the key questions whether this law will also be supported by those who are now sitting on the left side of this Chamber. I regret that the amendment to Article 1 which could prevent the implementation of the public administration reform "after Janšev" has not been adopted. The adoption of the law, as you will obviously adopt in the ruling coalition, concludes the reform of the Slovenian public administration. The first step was to achieve political compatibility. The second step was that the government has shown that it is not able to lead by example, so you are introducing a stick in step three. You'll have public servants, in saying, "persecute with detectives if they don't obey enough." It's being accepted tonight. Of course, all those who have spoken today about how against the proposal in Article 1 are, of course, some of you, perhaps even by a different vote, have made it possible, of course, that the amendment to Article 1 has not been adopted and that, of course, we are now going to adopt a law that infamously concludes the reform of the Slovenian public administration "after Janshevo". I'm going to argue with this myself and my colleagues, so we're not going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Check-in is on. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Since the United States of America is so sacred to you, some would like to be there. I don't know what it is. It's probably those who opposed the amendment. The worst convicts released are obliged to report to their overseer once a day or once a week. We're worse, we're worse. Any one of you saw Schindler's list, and you should see him, because he's got the most Oscars and he's told the biggest truth. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Thank you, Mr. Sculpture. [[...]] I'm sorry. Those who saw this film, how the Nazis performed in the Jewish closed quarters, who is somewhere, what they do and what they don't do, of course you got it. If it's a democracy that detectives hunt people - then it's not a democracy. Shame on you, shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u243	I'll do it on my own, so you won't have any problems if the partners are still partners. Of course, what you have done by voting at the first amendment, you have achieved what has been observed in the Slovenian public administration for a number of months, even in the National Assembly. One of the MPs talked about it. Negative selection. People are leaving. And now you're adding insinuation to that. Thirty thousand public servants will now help their superiors deliver information that will establish the possibility of using detective methods. A member of the ruling coalition, former Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, spoke today about some of the proposals on how the problems mentioned in Article 1 of this Act are being resolved. If the government doesn't know or can't lead by example. That wasn't even enough. The ruling coalition has steeply handed over the stick to Minister Virant. Minister Virant doesn't even expect him to do this. But he says, no, let's just do it as our superiors and we'll have 30,000, times 30,000, times 30,000 relationships, where people will deal with where, who, when, when, who, who, who, when, who is really sick. This is the story of the next year and a half of the Slovenian public administration. Very good. Congratulations, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Of course, I have no intention of supporting bad laws that in turn violate personal freedom and human rights. I won't do it this time either. Apparently, the ministry saw only one sick tree, so it decided to cut down the whole forest regardless of the cost. We are becoming a police state on the one hand, where security services are not being controlled. On the other hand, we would, of course, control public servants. But it wouldn't be interesting, but we wouldn't control ourselves or the officials. I remember the giggles and the stories from some of the past, when we talked a lot about doormen's crime and the powerhouses, and the directors, they owned the whole factory. I don't want to go back in those days, so of course I'm going to oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u247	Dear, President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Look, we got the law and the changes in the law again, which brings something good, but there's always something else planted. We've passed such laws here quite a lot. It's not the only one, it's not the first one, and it's probably not the last one. Of course, now that the amendment has fallen, what remains is what is most negative. The main thing remains that people are forced into unhealthy human relations. Suddenly, there will be rewards for stalking, spying, accusing, insinuating. Of course, how can you abuse all this, even through detectives, but it's even more terrifying. After all, these detectives are going to collect information on someone by state order. What information? Probably not just the sick ones, but the other ones. All of this could be taken care of by the authorities in the state administration. Everyone has a superior in this pyramid structure, and it's supposed to be whoever's watching what's going on. But what is now going to happen is, of course, just the burning oil of worse relationships. Even in the State Administration, people are already moaning and talking about how they are somehow forced to be kind. But with everything they have to do, they say they have no choice but to play harmonica in front of their office. That would be the nicest thing. Everything else they have to do inside and between the citizens is far from kind. That's why I won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u249	Thank you very much. If all those who had previously been zealous for supporting the amendments were here, but were not, if all those who were in favour of the amendment had been here at the time of the vote, they would not have voted, and if all those who were previously in favour of the amendment were then voted against, then the amendment would have been adopted. And then if the amendment had been adopted, I would have supported the law. Now, of course, I am one of those who will not support the marriage. I would advise that perhaps the apropos of the Law on Public Servants would be given a little more confidence by public servants, as we Members, with or without a vote of confidence, are constantly falling.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u250	Thank you. And Mr. Bostian Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I won't support the law. One reason is that, under the Law on Detective Activity, detectives are supervised by the Ministry of the Interior. Tell me if the Ministry of the Interior is not part of the public administration. Tell me if this isn't about public administration politicization. Tell me if someone here will not control themselves. I think so. That's another reason why I won't support the marriage. However, I will certainly hope to find four missing persons who were missing from the amendment to help and not support this law and give the Minister an opportunity to consider further. Because the fact is, he started a little bit in today's debate. To get started in Styrian, it was also clear when he had a vision of a man with two broken legs walking. I, I'm sorry, I don't know a man like that and I don't see one. I can't either. My colleague, the minister, he even said he'd never be. Yes, I believe that many of you here today would like to be Esmeralda and overlook that we're making a mistake, and he doesn't hope to say that. Not that you don't want to. You don't. And if we don't appreciate ourselves as part of the public administration, then who the hell will appreciate us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u252	Thank you. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 30. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE CONTRACTING PARTIES TO THE NETHERLANDS COOPERATION TREATY ON COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF NUCLEAR DATA WITH THE SECRET TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CONTRACTING PARTIES OF THE NORTHERN ATLANTIC COOPERATION TREATY ON COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF NUCLEAR DATA, WHICH THE PROTECTION OF SECRET IS 10. In May 2000, the North Atlantic Council and the Confidential Security Annex to the Agreement between the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on Cooperation in the Field of Nuclear Data, which security of secrecy is 6. MARCH 1998 was launched by the North Atlantic Council. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On behalf of the Ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina on police cooperation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment to the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted for 62 against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on cooperation against organised crime, trafficking in human beings and illegal migrations, illegal trafficking in illicit drugs and previous composites, terrorism and other criminal acts. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment to the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted against 61. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and reported in writing on this assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 61 against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Economic Zones Act is confirmed. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted for 62 against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the purified text of the law is confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Plant Protection Products Act is confirmed. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted 58 to 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the State Prosecutor's Office Act is confirmed. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted for 64 against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Criminal Procedure Act is confirmed. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted for 62 against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 19th item of the agenda, a mandate-holder matter. Under this item, the Assembly will consider 42 proposals by the Council of Justice on the election to judicial office. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. Proposal for a Decision on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Proposal for a decision on discharge, appointment of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the appointment of the Vice-President of the Electoral and Mandate Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Proposal for a decision establishing the termination of a member's function and the election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. Disclosure of the termination of the post of deputy member of the working body. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to a hearing on the proposals of the Council of Justice on election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted 42 proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to 35 judges and 6 judges at the District Court in Trebnje, Radovljica, Škofja Loka, Ljubljana, Celje, Murski Sobota, Lendava and Maribor, and to the District Court in Krske. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, as the working body of the country and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Eva Grein to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Trebnje. We're voting. There were 60 votes in favour and 60 votes in favour. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tanja Voglar to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Krske. We're voting. There were 58 votes in favour and 58 votes in favour. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Barbara Gomilar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Radovljica. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Jazna Levc Uršič to the District Court in the District Court in Škofja Loka. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Gabrovšek Prešeren to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Daniela Knez to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Cigale, to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nina Bogataj to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nataša Zavrtanik to the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Eleanor Bash to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The proposed decision is adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Marija Šifrer to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Barbara Zupančič Kočar to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial office of Mrs Carmen Springer to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Daša Sikošek to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Dragica Přístavec to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Esther Pryce to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ivanka Potokar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Hribar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Barka Kejjar Verčič to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Barbara Jan Bufon to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Alje Kratovac Prokomovič at the District Court of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Tomaž Lapornik as a judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 55 Members and Members voted for 51 against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Lendway Brecelj to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 55 Members and Members voted for 51 against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The proposed decision is adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Helena Miklavčič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 56 Members and Members voted in favour of 52 against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Polona Mlakar Adam to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 57 Members and Members voted in favour of 53 against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Katarina No. Kaplan to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 54 Members and Members voted for 51 against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tadeja Oštir to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 56 Members and Members voted in favour of 53 against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Mlakar to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There were 55 votes in favour and 53 in favour against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In my vote, I propose a decision on the election of Ms Barbara Kleinšek to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 56 Members and Members voted for 50, against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjana Hofbauer to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 56 Members and Members voted for 54 against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In my vote, I propose a decision on the election of Ms Irene Gorjan to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 58 Members and Members voted for 54 against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. At the vote, I propose a decision on the election to the judicial functions of the Magi. Laure-Delphine Senica to the district court seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 58 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Nothing.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Mark Češnovar to the district judge's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 58 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] The proposed decision is adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Tanja Petek to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Jožef Križank to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Murska Sobota. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Simone Vinkovic Skalič to the District Court in the District Court in Murska Sobota. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sonja Horvat Kustec to the District Court in the District Court in Murska Sobota. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Bojan Bočkorec as judge of the District Court in Lendava. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Katja Arnus to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Denis Herič, the judge of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sonja Krajnc to the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Mr Jako Kranjčevič, to the judge's seat at the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. [[No, no, ……]] You're giving up? This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Boris Veszak as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 17, of the RTV Slovenia Act, for the period until the end of the mandate period of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council established in 2006. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the discussion on the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia submitted a proposal for an agreement on the appointment of Mr Sam Fakin, Dr. by d.o.b., for the Director-General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u253	Mr President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is certainly one of the most important institutions, which has an annual budget of over €2 billion or, if I say so in tolars, it is over 500 billion SIT. This is a key institution in the provision of health care, so any rationalisation in the operation of this institution is very important, as any small change can save billions of SITs or millions of euros already. Surely, in order to achieve any improvements, it is the very leadership of this institution and the Director-General is the key person who bears the greatest responsibility here. A person who can successfully run such an institution must, in addition to being a good manager and a good knowledgeer of the entire health care system in Slovenia, also need to know good institutions, especially the Health Insurance Institute itself. On the board itself and also at the assembly of this institution, Mr Fakin was practically supported by a large majority. Already there, he presented himself with his programme as an excellent acquaintance of this area, and he also received so much support. We interviewed Mr Fakin twice in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because we wanted answers to a number of questions that we have also asked him. He presented an extremely ambitious program. In particular, it was positive that he had a very strong focus on maintaining solidarity and the highest possible level of health standards, in favour of our patients. This is an important emphasis, so the Group itself or the Group considers it to be the right path to follow. He also stressed in his programme the search for solutions to rationalise this institution and thus the savings that would then allow for an even higher level of health services. It devotes much of its knowledge to this, as well as all its efforts to update it in terms of informing this system, which will certainly facilitate the work of all health homes, hospitals or all those who have any business cooperation with the Health Insurance Office. We can say that Mr Fakin has provided us with good answers to many questions. We have received an answer to every question, without any confusion, but we did not want to conclude a single position in the parliamentary group itself on this basis, but we decided that every Member in his/her conscience would decide when voting on an agreement on his/her appointment. I am sure that he will receive sufficient support, as there has been virtually no apparent opposition to him. I will, of course, give him my own personal support, for with his program he convinced me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats we support the decision of the Assembly for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which elected Mr Sam Fakin as Director General of the Institute at the end of February this year. We have decided to support ourselves despite the concerns of individual medical organisations. In this decision, we are guided by the conviction we created in the direct discussion of the Group of Members with Mr Fakin. We note and assess that the programme presented to us and some concrete measures it will try to implement, if appointed as Director, ensure the integrity of the commitment to implement the guidelines, tasks and objectives of the strategic development programme of the institution. Therefore, it ensures that the substance of the strategy, which is legally defined, will be the basis for the autonomy and independent decision-making of insurers and contributors to the future strengthening of the stability of overall health insurance in Slovenia. In order to preserve and extend the rights of compulsory health insurance, one of the most important grounds for further transformation and strengthening of the insurance undertaking, in particular in the case of insurers and less individual groups and lobbying on the other hand. The guarantee that the institution, together with other partners, will provide equal opportunities for the exercise of rights to represent the interests of insurers based on the principles of solidarity and fairness, was also strong enough to support this. It is also important to communicate and commit the applicant to ensure that insurance policy has a greater impact on the design and decision-making of healthcare and insurance development issues. And we add, because we are, not least, insurers and taxpayers who provide financial resources for the development of this area. We consider the candidate's relationship to the planned accelerated privatisation of health services to be extremely important. And the candidate agrees with our position and our view that the benefits of insurers and the more effective provision of health services should be pursued in the award of concessions. Decommissioning public institutions as basic health care providers at primary level is certainly not part of this concept. The appointment of the new Director of the Health Insurance Office is also an opportunity to acknowledge the Director's previous important contribution to the financial stabilisation of the Institute and to increase the concern for the welfare of the insured. Mr Fakin, however, assures us that he also wants this work to continue. And in the end. Members of Parliament have also found it difficult, without substantial arguments and these in the Group of Social Democrats, to reject the decision of the Assembly representing and representing users of health services. In short, it is difficult to oppose the selection and choice of users who are directly interested that the insurance company is and operates primarily in their favour and benefit. That is why we will also support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Good evening again, everyone. Before us is the final stage in the process of confirming the nomination of the Director of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The management of such an important institution is undoubtedly a professional and autonomous function, and as we know, all the institutions of the institution have unanimously supported the candidacy for the new Director-General. We can't challenge Mr. Fakin's expertise and managerial knowledge, but we can't help but feel that he's gone to the doctors more than once. All the measures presented: systematic efforts aimed at better quality health insurance, dissemination of health insurance rights, accessible network, setting of standards and quality criteria for operators, faster access to specialists, greater involvement of professional associations in health policy - are undoubtedly commendable and are attached to them in the LDS Group. However, the questions on which we do not have a unified opinion at the LDS Club, and we will vote in our conviction, are as follows: we are concerned about how it will coordinate relations between medical organisations and individual healthcare providers, as past friction can create ever-new conflicts throughout the entire future mandate period, which, of course, would not be good for insurers. We believe that, in this case, an open question cannot be resolved between the Health Insurance Office - as payers of health services - and providers of such services, but it must be seen to establish a partnership, as a relationship with insurers for whom the institution must undoubtedly endure as much as possible. Of course, some little shadow on the candidate still throws the question of erythropoietin. Although the case has not yet been concluded and is still in court, it is at least morally contentious that in the past, as director of the institution, he has dealt with the issue, but now he himself wants to be the director of the damaged cash register. Of course, there is also no need to overlook his indirect responsibility in reviewing and behind in reviewing swabs at the Celje Hospital. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we are aware that the post of Director-General of the Health Insurance Office is an extremely difficult and responsible function, since it is about managing almost €2 billion, for example, to compare, that is 20 times the budget of the Ministry of Health. The function requires a qualified person who, inter alia, will be able to maintain a delicate balance between all health care providers. However, it will be interesting to see whether the ministers will be apprehensive if a new director is appointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group is aware of the extraordinary responsibilities that man has in the position of Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia or public health treasury. It is not just a major state treasury, it is not just money, it is a man in particular, it is a matter of concern or making it accessible to citizens and citizens of this country. Just a look at the revenue of last year's agency, which amounted to 1.86 billion euros, is talking about the mega-Romanian dimensions of this organisation, which, by the way, brings a good financial starting point of 16.6 million euros to the new Director-General in 2006, which is a poor 84 billion dollars. Our views and our decisions on how we will vote today on the candidate for Director-General of the ZZZS, Mr Sam Fakin, are based solely on the references that the candidate has, on the basis of his presented programme, based on a discussion with him, based on his personality characteristics, based on his work so far, based on his 15-year experience in management and finance. In an interview, which is always too short, the candidate showed some of his outstanding qualities, his experience, and his views on the management of the institution. However, I must also say that we have not received convincing answers to some questions. We were also asked about judicial proceedings against the candidate, Mr Fakin, from the time he ran the Celje hospital, when he was marked by allegations of irregularities in prescribing erythropoietin to the detriment of the ZZS and unreasonablely long delays in histopathological tests, which is certainly an objective responsibility of the professional director. We also raised the question whether it was wise to have a public health cashier at the head of the department. In the New Slovenia Group, we also carefully examined the letter from three medical organisations, FIDES, the Slovenian Medical Chambers and the Slovenian Medical Society, which assess the proposed candidate by the ZZZS Assembly as inappropriate. The medical organisations express reasonable fear and doubt that Mr Fakin, as director of the ZZS, would be able to establish an unburdened and correct cooperation with partner medical organisations and doctors, which could lead to misunderstandings in the forthcoming term of office of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. It follows from the statement that Members and Members of New Slovenia have formulated our decisions on the basis of our own individual considerations, and this time, as always, we will vote in conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich. [[No, no, ……]] There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Sayovic, excuse me, Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to say that on this occasion, given that misinterpreted interpretations of the non-cooperation of SDS Members, NSI and SLS in the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances have appeared in the media section, when the former President of this Commission placed the item on the agenda, let me tell you that it was not an objection, as was said in the media section, to the hearing of the candidate. We know that the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly do not provide for this. It was not a question of hearing the candidate, it was an abuse or violation of the Rules of Procedure by the former President and unnecessary exposure of the candidate and his programme. And we objected to that. With regard to the candidate himself, I must say that the programme and vision presented by him are those who speak in favour of his appointment or in favour of obtaining consent in this National Assembly. What poses a danger to the management of such an important institution as the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is certainly this opposition expressed in the part of the healthcare profession. The Slovenian Medical Chamber and the Trade Union oppose the appointment of Mr Fakin. This is because it will be difficult to find an appropriate dialogue. Personally, I must say that after what we heard at the two presentations in the parliamentary group, I estimate that this fear is minimal or I do not think it is. Mr Fakin said he was aware of this partnership and I think he was also aware that the changes that were still possible and which were also necessary in the final stage of the organisation of health care in our country and in maximising the effects that could still be achieved could not be achieved otherwise than through dialogue. And that's what I think is positive, which leads me to give my support to agreeing to the appointment. In the healthcare system, despite the positive and substantial surpluses of health-care operations over the past two years, there are still some reserves. And I think it is the task of future leadership to make use of these reserves, especially for the benefit of insurance and service users, in particular in terms of reducing waiting types. In terms of rationalisation in such a way that the rights of patients and those who need these services are not damaged or deprived of their rights. I think that this is a fundamental task, which, once again, I stress, cannot be achieved without dialogue with the providers of these services. I think this dialogue and this partnership is necessary. Of course, it should be borne in mind that appropriate control mechanisms must nevertheless be put in place to prevent such or other potential abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u262	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support Mr. Fakin on the basis of sober and serious reflections. Of course, the decision was not easy, but it was significantly easier if one knew that the man had received the full support of the World Health Insurance Institute. So he was supported by all those who represent us as insurers, not least so we were supported by all those who voted for us. No system, nor health, works so well, so rationally that, of course, with certain possible improvements, it could not be even better, and it seems to me that it is for the benefit of those who collect money in the health register, that it is, of course, cost-effective, rational and that all voters, taxpayers for their money, are getting the most. But these goals are undoubtedly worth supporting, and Dr. Fakin is no doubt the most promising name at this time, and that is why he also receives my voice and my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is a good habit for those who are CEOs or candidates for the Director-General to have the opportunity to present their vision in parliament or, as has sometimes been possible in this Parliament, to say at least once a year what proportions there are in the health treasury. The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances is the Supervisory Commission and is the only body involved in the National Assembly - in terms of business provisions - with the content of public money spending. The candidate for the Director-General of the Department of Health Insurance, Mr Sam Fakin, has prepared his programme on the basis of measures under the framework of economic reforms. He stressed that health care is the biggest problem that needs to be addressed to improve the quality of medical services in the broadest sense and improve the cost-effectiveness of Slovenian health care. Logically, he foretold that he would enter a number of stings. Mr Fakin has also been able to say in the National Assembly that they assess that health insurance rights do not need to be curtailed, because of the growth of gross domestic product, they can even be disseminated, but at the same time there is a need to respond to the development of medical science, which reveals always new possibilities for detecting and treating disease. He also assessed, on the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, when we considered the content of its programme, that overall health care in Slovenia, health care homes, hospitals, pension homes and pharmacies in 2006 was a positive business, as it was a total of around 5 billion surpluses in health care and that the losses in hospitals amounted to surpluses in pharmacies. Money does not need to deny rights, but cost-effectiveness needs to be increased. Mr Fakin has also been able to say that, in addition to the long-term stability of the healthcare system, in addition to controlling prices and medicines, it is possible to ensure, in particular, an increase in the efficiency and productivity of healthcare providers. This, of course, is not an easy task, so it says that the basic story he will deal with is the development of management in Slovenian health. This will require a lot of changes, especially in Slovenian hospitals, even in Slovenian health homes, but this is something else that the current Minister of Health has proposed or proposed. Therefore, of course, to me personally, it is not surprising that the Minister of Health has not expressed himself or said what he thinks of the candidate for director of the Health Insurance Institute. I am pleased to hear today that many Members, Members, intend to support Mr Fakin. I will support it myself because of the Commission's presentation on budgetary control and other public finances, and I recommend that any committee on budgetary and other public finances control ask him at the end of the year, "Is all that he wrote down in his programme even realized?" But the first step is to give him support in the National Assembly. Improving the quality of medical services and improving the cost-effectiveness of health care is not only a problem in Slovenia, they are a problem worldwide. Mr. Fakin intends to take this seriously, and it is therefore appropriate to give him our support. My voice of support will be given today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u266	Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I will support Dr Fakin's candidacy, not because of a programme that would probably not be very different if there was another candidate. Above all, I was very pleased with the answers that Mr Fakin gave in the discussion in our Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The answers show that it is aware that not everything in the healthcare system or in the health insurance system should be as specific as it should be in specific matters as they are. Above all, I think that, as a doctor and as a man with experience, in this health system, he knows where the costs that occur on the operators' side are actually unnecessary and where are the opportunities to increase the quality of services. Slovenian health needs a lot of new quality equipment and also a different organisation of work to guide the creation of such savings to better service delivery. And to stimulate both doctors and all the staff involved. From the experience of foreign modern hospitals, we know that with the proper use of computer science, they can save 20% to 30% of the workforce, if I may say so unkindly, both medical personnel, nurses who are lacking, and doctors. These people are more effective. However, patients know how much treatment is going on and how many steps and time are lost to take concrete medical measures. I also expect it to update the system of links between insured persons, health homes or concessionaires and pharmacies, and also to go down to check the eligibility of certain costs and margins for medicinal products. In view of all this, given the concrete implementation of all this, I will also assess the correctness of my decision and its support. However, I want him to be able, under the influence of all those already in charge of the health system, to make objective and transparent decisions to introduce improvements that I believe are also aware of and wish him to be successful in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. You're giving up. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on consent to the appointment of Mr Sam Fakin, Dr. by d.o.b., for the Director-General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. An explanation of vote, Mr Barovic, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Slovenian National [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u270	One moment, the application is underway. Mr. Jakob President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u271	Thank you very much. So, on behalf of the Group of Members, I say that the Group of Members will support the candidate's candidacy. We have already explained this on the Mandate-Election Commission and we expect that cooperation among all participants participating in this package of healthcare will be ensured, that proper and good cooperation will be achieved, and that health treasury will also be well managed, for the benefit of citizens and citizens or insured persons or insured persons in Slovenia. As the Parliamentary Group has said, it will support unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u273	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party - as agreed from the outset, we will support it. So only Fakin will get support from our client. Dear colleagues and colleagues! He'll get it because he knows what he wants because he hopes and he succeeds. It is no wonder that some people have doubts about the opinions of some or all medical organizations, because they have gained confidence precisely because they have warned about the mistakes of work, God does not give all, 80% of the doctors of the garage, work, work hard, but a certain part of them takes advantage of their status. And Mr. Only Fakin was, is, and will be a fighter against those who exploit their position. The fact that it would be good if you were not or would be a doctor is, of course, a thought based on a law based on determinations in a public institution on hospital treatment, but nevertheless. If a person who has medical experience who has been a doctor in "knavušnačna" = mining, a person who has medical experience of doctors of those who are lacking today, and a person who has experience in management at the same time. A man who hoped to tell people who had made mistakes because they thought they were gods. And a man, not least, whom the ruling coalition has taken as a professional associate in the Government Development Service, but has, with all the confirmations, in short, all the positive qualities. I don't know. I really don't know. [[...]] I'm done. You've been missing all day too, and now you're all talking. But we're from 10 here, right here on the right, right now, if we're here by half nine, and we're up to nine. I want to say that a person has all the references and I am surprised that he is a recognized expert on one side and on the other, but now he is the one who supports him, and thank you for supporting him, with all due respect, says he will follow his conscience. I don't get it. But, look, a man is worth his money and I guarantee it with my name, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party we support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u274	Thank you very much. In my own name, I'm opening the application. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will join my own opinion, Comrade Barovic, and I will support Mr Fakin as Director. A man with such references simply cannot be unsupported. And these references were also entrusted to him or trusted by a part of the government coalition that will vote in its conscience today, as always. You agree that you always vote on your conscience. And that's right. I hope he gets enough votes. I'm sorry some people are in a hurry to go home. You're looking at an hour, and the detectives are supposed to be looking for you all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I'm opening a second round of explanations of voice. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. If the Slovenian Democratic Party has decided to vote in accordance with its conscience, of course, I am sure that Mr Sam Fakin will receive significantly more votes from the Slovenian Democratic Party for and from the Slovenian National Party that speaks so much, there are only two Members in the vote today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u278	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Tomaž Šinigo and the appointment of Mr Anton Ilc as a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 57 against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the SLS Group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Josip Bajc as Vice-President and the appointment of Mr Michael Prevc as Vice-President of the General Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 57 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[For everyone.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision establishing the termination of a member's function and on the election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the SLS Group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing the termination of the function of a member of Mr Franc Kangler and the election of Mr Josip Bajc as a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10, paragraph 2, of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, a decision will be taken if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. 63 Members and Members voted for 62 against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the decision to determine the termination of the post of deputy member of the working body. Ambassador Willi Trophynik stepped out of the Group of Members of the LDS. Therefore, on the basis of the second paragraphs of paragraphs 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: "It shall be ascertained that the Member of Mr William Trofenik has ceased to be a member of the LDS Member Group. As a result of the termination of the membership of the LDS Group, Mr Willi Trofenika shall cease to serve as a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the irresistibility of performing a public function with a gainful activity. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you, Mr. Willy Trophy. Thank you for your work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda - the third is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. On Tuesday 27 March 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, because of the working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent with the law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u279	Thank you, Vice President. It is a pleasure to speak in front of such an auditorium as it seems to be at this late hour this evening, and the whole day has been much less, and this is the way some work is done. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we said in a presentation of our views that we would decide how we would vote when we heard the explanation of the State Secretary attending the meeting on the dilemmas raised to us when we asked, whether and why it would be wise to transfer 10% of Telekom’s share to the SOD, or not to lose the takeover premium, so we lost part of the funds in the budget, whether it is even wise to transfer this proportion of Telekom to the SOD. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State has completely ignored our questions and has not answered any questions. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy, we repeat what we said at the time: in the event of inadequate answers, because they were, therefore, not at all, we will vote against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u280	Thank you very much. All I would say is that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the State Secretary was unable to respond. Application on your own behalf, explanation of vote. Nice running. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Very briefly. I have in fact announced that I myself will vote against the adoption of this law when I presented the position of the unaffiliated Members' Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Union. In particular, it is because the legitimate and legitimate expectations of investors, which have also been confirmed by the referendum, have been misused and used for rather insignificant purposes. At the time this law was adopted, the government adopted a partial privatisation programme and there is therefore no reason for any manoeuvre to park 10% of Telekom's shares at the SOD and go into some very unusual, very strange privatisation story, for which no one knows how it will end and what it means. In this case, investors and their expectations have been misused and used for purposes which are at least profound if not more. And I cannot vote for such a solution and I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. In the New Slovenia Group, as I personally, we will support this fourth amendment of the law. We hope, as I said in the debate, that this is the last one and that the beneficiaries will get their funds back as soon as possible, or this return on their investments. And also the proposal put forward by the Ministry considers that it is in fact also addressing this problem that has arisen and the solution for the SOD to assume these obligations is probably the best at this point. That's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Finally, beneficiaries who have invested in the construction of the telecommunications network and telecommunications will receive at least a fraction of this or, in fact, 10% of what they could get if the legitimate expectations of beneficiaries were also in the ruling Liberal Democracy when it was in power, but in 1996 it did everything to prevent the adoption of such a law. At the time, the stock was worth about €40, and today it is worth almost ten times more. However, only with this change of law will this Government realize what it has adopted in its programme, and the beneficiaries will receive this money, as it says in this amendment, within two months of the settlement with the state defence. I am sure that this is the last change in this law and the end of this story, although the beneficiaries will get less than they could when the time was right. But we're fixing what we're fixing to.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u286	Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u287	The beneficiaries of investments in the public telecommunications network have already become beneficiaries by adopting this law a few years ago. This law, as proposed by the Government, is contrary to a number of laws and contrary to the will of the National Assembly, which requires the Slovenian Compensation Society, which is primarily set up to pay money to denationalised people, to credit the state budget because the state budget is not able to include the repayment of this money in the expenditure. That's the whole story of this marriage. Why is that on the SOD? Because New Slovenia happens to be there, and then New Slovenia - the Christian party, or what is already called, will decide who gets what, and when will it get what, instead of going through the legal procedure in accordance with the payments made from the budget in a transparent way? These are big questions. Mr President of the SOD administration was not able to sell Mercator well. Now you give him 10% of Telekom because in the state budget, the Minister of Finance of the same party is unable to provide money to investors. And you say how good the economic situation is. It's just a ruse. By the way, in reporting to the European Union, this expenditure will be the expenditure of the state budget. Only Slovenian taxpayers will be told that this was not their expense, and the story will repeat when we have a nice figure for domestic use and for foreign use we exceed the criteria. This is the fact that the Government, by the way, adopts a law that is contrary to a series of laws, but is the classic feature of this government, which you will support today, colleagues and colleagues, and will not solve the problem in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-26.ana.u288	We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 8. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
